What Is Obamanomics?  

Obamanomics describes the economic policies of the administration of former President Barack Obama, with the term combining "Obama" and "economics." The term is commonly associated with the tax policies, healthcare reforms, and economic stimulus programs enacted by the Obama Administration in response to the Great Recession of 2008.





Key Takeaways

Obamanomics refers to the economic policies of former U.S. President Barack Obama.The term is often associated with the stimulus programs used to combat the Great Recession.Examples of these policies include the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which was an $831 billion economic stimulus package, and the 2009 bailout of the U.S. automobile industry.Critics of Obamanomics view it as representing an undue expansion of the government’s economic role, including increased government spending, taxation, and regulation.It is often contrasted with Reaganomics, another popular term referring to the economic policies of former President Ronald Reagan.


   Understanding Obamanomics  

As is often the case in politics, the precise connotations of Obamanomics will depend on the political views of the commentator in question. Those who favor a more activist role in the economy for the federal government to protect the economic interests of Americans may view the term neutrally or even with approval. Those who prefer less federal involvement in picking winners and losers in the economy and interfering with the economic efficiency of free markets may view the term, and the policies it represents, unfavorably.



For supporters of Obamanomics, the term is often associated with a favorable view of the Obama Administration’s economic stimulus policies. Examples of these policies include the 2009 passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, (ARRA) which was an $831 billion economic stimulus package; and the 2009 bailout of the U.S. automobile industry, which was on the verge of collapse at that time. Many Obama supporters view him in heroic terms, as one who saved the economy from certain doom by implementing this economic stimulus agenda.



Other notable policies associated with Obamanomics include the raising of income taxes on high-income earners; the imposition of a cap, or “sequester,” on military and discretionary spending; and the passage of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as Obamacare.



To detractors, the term Obamanomics has connotations of increased government spending, taxation, and regulation, and a dangerous slide toward socialism and a command economy. In effect, Obama’s critics view Obamanomics as an unwelcome expansion of the role of government in the economy. In this manner, Obamanomics can be contrasted with Reaganomics, which refers to the economic policies of ex-President Ronald Reagan. While Obamanomics is associated with an expanded government role, Reaganomics is associated with lower taxes, decreased government spending, and fewer regulations.





Use of Term Obamanomics

While some commentators use the term Obamanomics in a positive or negative light, many use it to simply refer to the economic policies of President Obama, without any necessarily positive or negative connotations.


   Obamanomics and the ARRA  

Supporters of Obamanomics claim that the dire financial situation of the U.S. economy that greeted Obama when he was elected in 2008 necessitated a strong government response. These circumstances included a soaring fiscal deficit, collapsing housing market, tumbling stock market, fears of a banking-sector collapse following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, and dramatic job losses.



Obama’s signature response to these issues was the quintessential stimulus act, the ARRA, which increased government spending by over $800 billion for the decade spanning 2009 through 2019. The ARRA is an example of Keynesian economic theory, which includes the concept of government deficit spending as a way to stimulate economic aggregate demand and reduce unemployment through the multiplier effect.



Supporters claimed that the spending was focused on preserving and creating jobs that were threatened by the financial crisis underway at that time, while also investing in areas such as health, education, and civil infrastructure.  However, Harvard economist N. Gregory Mankiw and other critics later pointed out that the ARRA appeared to have had the opposite effect, and actually increased unemployment relative to the benchmarks projected by the Act's proponents, by crowding out private investment and other economic mechanisms.
What Is the Obelisk Consensus Algorithm?  

Obelisk is a blockchain consensus algorithm used by the Skycoin ecosystem, designed to eliminate the shortcomings of proof-of-work (PoW) and proof-of-stake (PoS) algorithms. According to its creators, Obelisk also reduces the need for mining, significantly improves transaction speed, and delivers enhanced security.





Key Takeaways

Obelisk is the proprietary blockchain consensus algorithm of the Skycoin ecosystem.Obelisk attempts to address the issues with consensus mechanisms by distributing influence over a network, according to a concept called a “web-of-trust.”The Obelisk consensus uses separate nodes for consensus and block creation.


   Understanding the Obelisk Consensus Algorithm  

Blockchains operate globally as self-regulated, decentralized platforms without any single authority. Therefore, a real-time, reliable, and secure network mechanism is required to ensure the authenticity of the transactions occurring on the network and reach a consensus about the ledger's status. This task is performed by the consensus algorithm.



While the PoW and PoS systems are the two most commonly used consensus algorithms, they both have some drawbacks. For example, PoW is very energy-intensive, and PoS can promote cryptocurrency hoarding instead of spending.


  Obelisk's Consensus Process  

Obelisk attempts to circumvent the problems of PoW and PoS by distributing influence over the network, according to a concept called a “web-of-trust.” This concept uses various network nodes and makes consensus decisions depending upon the influence score each node creates.






In Obelisk, all nodes have a list of nodes that they are subscribed to. This creates node density. The nodes with the most density have more influence on the network.



In terms of roles and activities performed, there are two types of nodes that participate in Obelisk: block-generating nodes and consensus nodes. Nodes can take either role because they are interchangeable. Block-generating nodes collect new transactions, authenticate them, package the verified transactions in a new block, and broadcast the block to the network.



Consensus nodes collect the blocks generated by block-generating nodes and put them in a separate container (apart from the blockchain). It then identifies the block made by the largest number of block-generators. This block is called the local winner and qualifies to be added to the blockchain. Each consensus node maintains necessary statistics on local winners (as reported by other nodes).



When local winners have been reported by the majority of the consensus nodes, it qualifies as a global winner and remains a part of the blockchain. However, if nodes decide otherwise, then one of the following actions occurs based on the available data and local logs:



The nodes re-synchronize with the networkThe nodes drop from participating in consensus or block-makingThe nodes keep their blockchains and request an emergency stop


   How Is Obelisk Used?  

Obelisk is used by the Skycoin ecosystem. Skycoin is designed and advertised as an alternative to centralized internet control. The intent behind the project is for consumers to control the internet by purchasing or building Skyminer machines to run Skywire—the Internet Service Provider (ISP) alternative—from their homes.



The Skywire network built upon the Skycoin ecosystem creates a mesh of internet connectivity, which removes the requirement for an ISP. Skywire users are rewarded in Skycoin and Coin Hours for providing bandwidth to other users.




What Is a Consensus Node?
In the Skycoin network using Obelisk consensus, a consensus node collects blocks from block-generating nodes and determines which block was made by the largest number of block-generators. That block is added to the blockchain.




What Is PoA Consensus?
Proof-of-Authority consensus is a blockchain consensus mechanism where new blocks can only be created for the blockchain by nodes that have proven through authentication that they have the right to create a new block.




How Does Blockchain Reach Consensus?
Many different consensus algorithms are designed to bring a distributed ledger to a consensus. Most are constructed to have many transaction validators reach a majority agreement about the state of the blockchain and the transactions taking place.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Objective Probability?  

Objective probability refers to the chances or the odds that an event will occur based on the analysis of concrete measures rather than hunches or guesswork. Each measure is a recorded observation, a hard fact, or part of a long history of collected data. The probability estimate is computed using mathematical equations that manipulate the data to determine the likelihood of an independent event occurring. An independent event is an event whose outcome is not influenced by prior events. Subjective probability, by contrast, may utilize some method of data analysis but also uses guesstimates or intuition to determine the chances of a specific outcome.


   Objective vs. Subjective Probability  

Objective probabilities are a more accurate way to determine the probability of a given outcome than subjective probability That's because subjective probability is largely based on human judgment and experiences. Objective probability, on the other hand, allows the observer to gain insight from historical data and then assess the likelihood of a given outcome.





Key Takeaways

Objective probability is the probability an event will occur based on an analysis in which each measure is based on a recorded observation or a long history of collected data.In contrast, subjective probability allows the observer to gain insight by referencing things they've learned and their own experience.In finance, people ought to use objective probabilities to make decisions instead of relying on subjective stories, personal experience, or anecdotal evidence.



Subjective probability allows the observer to gain insight by referencing things they have learned and their own experience. Rather than being derived solely from hard data and facts, subjective probability is largely based on a person's estimate or intuition about a situation and the likely outcome.



Objective probability is based on empirical evidence using statistics, experiments, and mathematical measurements rather than relying on things like anecdotes, personal experience, educated guesses, or hunches. In the financial world, using objective probability is particularly important in order to avoid the mistake of making emotional decisions when investing.



It is true that individual investors often rely on hunches, rules of thumb, or old wive's tales to justify making the particular investment that too much relies on subjective matters and emotional influence. Objective probability rids you of the emotional and anecdotal aspects of evaluating outcomes.


   Examples of Objective Probability  

One could determine the objective probability that a coin will land "heads" up by flipping it 100 times and recording each observation. This would likely yield an observation that the coin landed on "heads" approximately 50% of the time, which is an example of a purely objective probability.






Subjective probability varies from person to person—objective probability does not.



An example of subjective probability is when a person who is educated about weather patterns examines things such as barometric pressure, wind shear, and ocean temperature, then predicts the likelihood that a hurricane will head in a certain direction based on their previous experience. While the data aids in the decision-making, the ultimate prediction is based on probabilities that have been guesstimated by the weather forecaster.



When judging probabilities—or performing any statistical analysis—it is important for each observation to be an independent event that has not been subject to manipulation. The less biased each observation is, the less biased the end probability will be. That's why many prefer the objective over subjective probabilities because it leaves less room for emotions or biases to seep into the process, as numbers, hard facts, and models replace guesswork, hunches, and intuition.
What Is Obligation?  

An obligation is the responsibility of a party to meet the terms of a contract or agreement. If an obligation is not met, the legal system often provides recourse for the injured party.





Key Takeaways

Obligations are responsibilities, often in the form of a contract, such as a mortgage or auto loan.The Financial Obligation Ratio published by the Fed is a good benchmark for household budgeting.Failure to meet obligations is often met with punishment, such as imprisonment or fines.Debt, liquidity, and solvency ratios are all used to measure a firm's ability to meet its debt obligations.


   Understanding Obligation  

Obligations are the backbone of our economy. Trusting that a contract will be adhered to helps create a stable, healthy society. Individuals, corporations, governments, banks, and institutions—any entity that operates within a society—must regularly fulfill their obligations, or else face punishment.



Financial obligations represent any outstanding debts or regular payments that a party must make. For example, if you owe or will owe money to anybody, that is one of your financial obligations. Almost any form of payment or financial security represents a financial obligation. Coins, banknotes, shares of stock, and bonds are all promises or obligations that you will be credited with the accepted value of the item or gain certain rights or privileges by holding it.



Many formal financial obligations, like mortgages, student loans, or scheduled service payments are set down in written contracts signed by both parties and establish a creditor-debtor relationship of obligation.






Money can be construed as a financial obligation mandated by the government as legal tender, obliging producers or vendors to sell goods in exchange for currency such as coins and banknotes.


   Obligation and Personal Finance  

Obligations are an important aspect of personal finance. Every budget should first include all financial obligations for which the individual is responsible over the given time period. The Financial Obligation Ratio (FOR), a quarterly figure released by the Federal Reserve Board that estimates the ratio of household debt payments to disposable income, is a useful benchmark for individual budgets.



Assessing obligations carefully is especially important for retirement planning. When planning over longer periods of time such as retirement or for your child's college fund, the individual budgeter should consider more long-term obligations such as interest rates on mortgage payments or healthcare costs that have yet to be incurred.





14.7

The recommended financial obligation ratio for the last quarter of 2020.


   Obligation Vs. Rights  

Obligation means something particular in the world of derivatives, and especially in options trading. A call option, for instance, is a financial contract that gives the option buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy a stock, bond, commodity, or other asset or instrument at a specified price within a specific time period. This means that the option holder can decide whether or not to invoke that right, and is not obliged to do so.



Options trading can be complicated and investors sometimes mistakenly believe purchasing a call option requires you to buy a certain amount of stock at the strike price, but this is not the case. In fact, one of the most attractive aspects of buying a call option versus simply buying a stock is that it gives the trader exposure to a large amount of stock for a smaller amount of money, called the premium.



A futures or forward contract, on the other hand, assigns both the right and the obligation to deliver or receive the underlying asset or instrument.






Obligations aren’t just financial, such as the case of a politician’s obligation to faithfully represent their constituents.


   Obligation Examples  

The failure to meet one's obligations is often met with punishment, the degree of which depends on the character of the contract. For example, if an individual fails to make their car payments regularly, the auto company will repossess the car.



Taxes, too, are a form of obligation, and failing to meet them results in large fines or imprisonment. When large companies fail and find themselves unable to fulfill their outstanding debts, they can declare bankruptcy, which initiates the relief of the total debt for the debtor while allowing the creditor to recuperate some of their losses in the form of assets held by the debtor.



Obligations can be held by any individual or entity that is engaged in any sort of contract with another party, and broadly speaking, can be written or unwritten. A politician, for example, has the written obligation to serve all of their constituents within the confines of the law, but they may also have an unwritten obligation to make decisions that will affect their largest donors. The existence of these kinds of agreements is nearly impossible to prove and such obligations cannot be effectively regulated. Justice systems dating back to the Romans have offered stringent legal enforcement of important contracts.




What Are Collateralized Debt Obligations?
A collateralized debt obligation or CDO is a complex structured finance product backed by a pool of loans and other assets that are then sold to institutional investors. CDOs are a type of derivative and played a significant role in the 2007 housing crisis.




What Ratios Measure a Firm's Ability to Meet Its Current Debt Obligations?
The debt ratio, which is defined as the ratio of total debt to total assets, is often used to measure how likely a financial institution is to meet its obligations. Liquidity and solvency ratios are also commonly used for the same purpose.




What Obligations Does the Federal Government Have to the States?
The federal government is obligated to guarantee each state a republican form of government, protect each state from invasion, and, when expressly asked by the state's legislature or executive, to protect the state against "domestic violence." 




What Are Reasons for Terminating Contractual Obligations?
Contractual obligations can be legally terminated for any of the following reasons: fraud, a breach of contract, if both parties agree to end the contract due to a mutual mistake, or a legal term known as "impossibility of performance."
What Is Obligatory Reinsurance?  

Obligatory reinsurance is a treaty that requires an insurer to automatically send all policies on its books that fall within a set list of criteria to a reinsurer. Under the terms of an obligatory reinsurance agreement, also called an automatic treaty, the reinsurer is obliged to accept these policies.


   Understanding Obligatory Reinsurance  

Reinsurance, otherwise known as "insurance for insurance companies”, is a practice whereby insurers agree to transfer portions of their risk portfolios to other parties to reduce the likelihood of paying a large obligation stemming from an insurance claim and potentially going bankrupt. The insurer, or the cedent, gives away some of its business to another party, the reinsurer, who agrees to take on the risk associated with it in exchange for a share of the insurance premium — the payment customers are charged for coverage under a given plan.



Some reinsurance agreements are one-off transactional deals made on a case-by-case basis. On other occasions, a reinsurance treaty might be struck, obligating the insurer to automatically send the reinsurer a specific class of policies. When such an arrangement is made, an insurer is required to cede and a reinsurer required to accept all risks that fall within a predetermined set of criteria.





Important

Each risk is automatically accepted under the terms of the arrangement, even if the insurer has yet to notify the reinsurer.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Obligatory Reinsurance  

Obligatory reinsurance enables the insurer and reinsurer to develop a long-term relationship. The reinsurer gets a regular stream of business, while the insurer automatically covers itself against a class of predetermined risks without having to repeatedly find new buyers for each individual one — transferring a “book” of risks also generally works out to be much cheaper.



On the flip side, automatic acceptance eliminates the option to be picky, thereby increasing the threat of insolvency for everyone involved. The reinsurer could suddenly find itself inheriting a large chunk of policies and becoming liable to cover more losses than it originally bargained for. Should those plans result in claims and the reinsurer be unable to foot the bill for them, the ceding insurer may become fully responsible again for this portion of risk that it originally underwrote, putting it, too, in a difficult financial position.






Over-reliance on reinsurance played a big role in the demise of Mission Insurance in 1985.﻿﻿



These dangers mean it’s critical that each party does its homework. Before entering an agreement for obligatory reinsurance, the ceding insurer and reinsurer will want to make sure that the other is being managed properly and that their interests align.



It’s also paramount that the terms of the agreement include an accurate description of the type of risks that the treaty covers. This is an important step in removing ambiguities that, if left unaddressed, might require the arrangement to be canceled. If the ambiguities are discovered too late, it may be difficult to unwind the arrangement since risks may have already been exchanged.


   Types of Reinsurance  

There are two main categories of reinsurance: facultative and treaty. Both may be classified as obligatory if the reinsurance contract mandates all policies that fall within their scope to be transferred.



Facultative



Facultative coverage protects an insurer for an individual or a specified risk or contract. If several risks or contracts need reinsurance, each is negotiated separately. Usually, the reinsurer has all rights for accepting or denying a facultative reinsurance proposal. That said, there is also a hybrid version that gives the primary insurer the option to cede individual risks, irrespective of the reinsurer's wishes.



Treaty



Treaty reinsurance, meanwhile, is effective for a set time period rather than on a per-risk or contract basis. The reinsurer covers all or a portion of the risks that the insurer may incur. 


   Special Considerations  

Reinsurance contracts can be both proportional and non-proportional. With proportional contracts, the reinsurer receives a prorated share of all policy premiums sold by the insurer in exchange for bearing a portion of the losses based on a pre-negotiated percentage in the event that claims are made. The reinsurer also reimburses the insurer for processing, business acquisition, and writing costs. 



With a non-proportional contract, on the other hand, the reinsurance company agrees to pay out claims only if they exceed a specified amount, known as the priority or retention limit, during a certain period of time. The priority or retention limit may be based on one type of risk or an entire risk category.
What Is an Obligor?  

An obligor, also known as a debtor, is a person or entity who is legally or contractually obliged to provide a benefit or payment to another. In a financial context, the term "obligor" refers to a bond issuer who is contractually bound to make all principal repayments and interest payments on outstanding debt. The recipient of the benefit or payment is known as the obligee.





Key Takeaways

An obligor is a person or entity who is legally or contractually obliged to provide a benefit or payment to another.An obligee is a persona or entity receiving the payments, or who is owed the obligation.An affirmative covenant is something that the obligor is required to do, such as hit specific performance benchmarks.In family law, there are certain cases when a court order requires one of the parents, the obligor, to pay child support to the other parent.


   Understanding Obligors  

An obligor is a person who is legally bound to pay another person. Debt holders are the most common types of obligors.



However, in addition to the required repayment of interest and principal, many holders of corporate debt are also contractually required to meet other requirements. For a bondholder, these are called covenants and are outlined in the initial bond issue between the obligor and obligee.


  Obligor in Corporate Settings  

Covenants can be either affirmative or negative. An affirmative covenant is something that the obligor is required to do, such as the need to hit specific performance benchmarks. A negative covenant is restrictive in that it stops the obligor from doing something, such as restructuring the leadership of the organization.



Since these bond issues are contractual obligations, obligors may have very little leeway in terms of deferring principal repayments, interest payments or circumventing covenants.



Any delay in payment or non-payment of interest could be interpreted as a default for the bond issuer, an event that can have massive repercussions and long-term ramifications for the continuing viability of the business. As a result, most bond obligors take their debt obligations very seriously. Defaults by overleveraged obligors do occur from time to time.






With bonds, if a covenant is breached by an obligor, the bond may become invalid and require immediate repayment, or it can sometimes be converted to equity ownership.



Since these bond issues are contractual obligations, obligors may have very little leeway in terms of deferring principal repayments, interest payments or circumventing covenants.



Any delay in payment or non-payment of interest could be interpreted as a default for the bond issuer, an event that can have massive repercussions and long-term ramifications for the continuing viability of the business. As a result, most bond obligors take their debt obligations very seriously. Defaults by overleveraged obligors do occur from time to time.


  Obligor in a Personal Setting  

An obligor does not have to be a bondholder. In family law, there are certain cases when a court order is handed down—in a divorce settlement, for example—that requires one of the parents to pay child support to the other parent.



If a working spouse is told by the courts to pay the non-working spouse $500 a month, the monthly payment will make them an obligor. In situations like this, if there are changes to an obligor's financial status or income, they may petition the court to reduce their monthly obligation.



Otherwise, even if the obligor loses their job, the payments remain due and cannot be discharged in bankruptcy like other civil judgments.



If an obligor falls behind on court-ordered payments, such as child support, it can lead to problems, such as wage garnishment, loss of driver's licenses, and other problems. It is important that an obligor parent pay what is owed, and make an effort to change child support amounts when there is a change in income of either parent.




Is the Borrower the Obligor?
In cases of debt, the borrower or the one with the debt is the obligor. They have an obligation to pay the lender or bond issuer, or the obligee. In other cases, an obligor may not have a debt to an obligee, but they may be responsible for paying them, such as in cases of child support.




Who Is the Obligor in a Surety Bond?
With surety bonds, or promises to fulfill debts in default, there are three parties involved. The principal is the obligor. The surety is the party that agrees to pay the bond to the obligee if the obligor defaults. The obligee is typically a government agency.




What Happens When the Obligor of Child Support Dies?
When an obligor of child support dies, they may still be responsible for paying child support through their estate, depending on the laws of the state where they lived.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding the difference between obligor and obligee will clarify financial responsibilities. Obligor's owe money to obligees, whether it is due to debt or contractual obligations.
What Is Obsolescence Risk?  

Obsolescence risk is the risk that a process, product, or technology used or produced by a company for profit will become obsolete, and thus no longer competitive in the marketplace. This would reduce the profitability of the company.



Obsolescence risk is most significant for technology-based companies or companies with products or services based on technological advantages.


   Understanding Obsolescence Risk  

Obsolescence risk is a factor for all companies to some degree and is a necessary side effect of a thriving and innovative economy. This risk comes into play, for example, when a company is deciding how much to invest in new technology. Will this technology remain superior long enough for the investment to pay off? Or will it become obsolete so soon that the company loses money?



Obsolescence risk also means that companies wanting to remain competitive and profitable need to be prepared to make large capital expenditures any time a major product, service, or factor of production becomes obsolete.






Budgeting for obsolescence risk is challenging because it is difficult to predict obsolescence and the exact rate of technological innovation.


   Example of Obsolescence Risk  

A publishing company is an example of one that faces obsolescence risk. As computers, tablets, and smartphones have become more popular and affordable, more consumers have started reading magazines, newspapers, and books on these devices instead of in their print forms.



For the publishing company to remain competitive, it must minimize its investments in the old paper publications and maximize its investments in new technologies. Even as it makes this shift, it must remain alert to new and unimagined technologies that could supplant the currently popular ways of reading and require still more investment.



The stock market "graveyards" are littered with dead companies whose products or technology were rendered obsolete. Examples are the technology companies Control Data and Digital Equipment from Morgan Stanley's 1982 “recommended” buy list.





Key Takeaways

Obsolescence risk arises when a product or process is at risk of becoming obsolete, usually due to technological innovations. Reducing obsolescence risk means being ready and able to make capital expenditures and investments in new technology and processes. Technology-based companies or companies that rely on technological advantages are most vulnerable to obsolescence risk.
What Is Obsolete Inventory?  

Obsolete inventory is a term that refers to inventory that is at the end of its product life cycle. This inventory has not been sold or used for a long period of time and is not expected to be sold in the future. This type of inventory has to be written-down or written-off and can cause large losses for a company.



Obsolete inventory is also referred to as dead inventory or excess inventory.





Key Takeaways

Obsolete inventory is inventory at the end of its product life cycle that needs to be either written-down or written-off the company's books.Obsolete inventory is written-down by debiting expenses and crediting a contra asset account, such as allowance for obsolete inventory.The contra asset account is netted against the full inventory asset account to arrive at the current market value or book value.When obsolete inventory is disposed of, both the related amount in the inventory asset account and the contra asset account are removed in the disposal journal entry.


   Understanding Obsolete Inventory  

Inventory refers to the goods and materials in a company’s possession that are ready to be sold. It is one of the most important assets of a business operation, as it accounts for a huge percentage of a sales company’s revenues.



In the past, if the inventory was held for too long, the goods may have reached the end of their product life and become obsolete. Currently, with technology, the state of abundance, and customers' high expectations, the product life cycle has become shorter and inventory becomes obsolete much faster.



Obsolete inventory is inventory that a company still has on hand after it should have been sold. When inventory can’t be sold in the markets, it declines significantly in value and could be deemed useless to the company. To recognize the fall in value, obsolete inventory must be written-down or written-off in the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



A write-down occurs if the market value of the inventory falls below the cost reported on the financial statements. A write-off involves completely taking the inventory off the books when it is identified to have no value and, thus, cannot be sold.


   Accounting for Obsolete Inventory  

GAAP requires companies to establish an inventory reserve account for obsolete inventory on their balance sheets and expense their obsolete inventory as they dispose of it, which reduces profits or results in losses. Companies report inventory obsolescence by debiting an expense account and crediting a contra asset account.



When an expense account is debited, this identifies that the money spent on the inventory, now obsolete, is an expense. A contra asset account is reported on the balance sheet immediately below the asset account to which it relates, and it reduces the net reported value of the asset account.



Examples of expense accounts include cost of goods sold, inventory obsolescence accounts, and loss on inventory write-down. A contra asset account may include an allowance for obsolete inventory and an obsolete inventory reserve. When the inventory write-down is small, companies typically charge the cost of goods sold account. However, when the write-down is large, it is better to charge the expense to an alternate account.


   Example of Obsolete Inventory  

For example, a company identifies $8,000 worth of obsolete inventory. It then estimates that the inventory can still be sold in the market for $1,500 and proceeds to write-down the inventory value. Since the value of inventory has fallen from $8,000 to $1,500, the difference represents the reduction in value that needs to be reported in the accounting journal, that is, $8,000 - $1,500 = $6,500.










Provision for Obsolete Inventory




 Account
 Debit 
 Credit


 Inventory Obsolescence
 $6,500
  


 Allowance for Obsolete Inventory
  
 $6,500






The allowance for obsolete inventory account is a reserve that is maintained as a contra asset account so that the original cost of the inventory can be held on the inventory account until it is disposed of. When the obsolete inventory is finally disposed of, both the inventory asset and the allowance for obsolete inventory is cleared.



For example, if the company disposes of its obsolete inventory by throwing it away, it would not receive the sales value of $1,500. Therefore, in addition to writing-off the inventory, the company also needs to recognize an additional expense of $1,500. The allowance for obsolete inventory will be released by creating this journal entry:










 Account
 Debit 
 Credit


 Allowance for Obsolete Inventory
 $6,500
  


 Inventory Obsolescence
 $1,500
  


 Inventory
  
 $8,000






The journal entry removes the value of the obsolete inventory both from the allowance for obsolete inventory account and from the inventory account itself.



Alternatively, the company could have disposed of the inventory for some money, say through an auction for $800. In this case, the proceeds of $800 from the auction is $700 less than the book value of $1,500. The amount of $700 will be charged to an expense account, and the journal entry will record the disposal of the inventory and receipt of $800 in proceeds from the auction:










 Account
 Debit 
 Credit


 Cash
 $800
  


 Allowance for Obsolete Inventory
 $6,500
  


 Cost of Goods Sold
 $700
  


 Inventory
  
 $8,000






The $1,500 net value of the inventory less the $800 proceeds from the sale has created an additional loss on disposal of $700, which is charged to the cost of goods sold account.



A large amount of obsolete inventory is a warning sign for investors. It can be symptomatic of poor products, poor management forecasts of demand, and/or poor inventory management. Looking at the amount of obsolete inventory a company creates will give investors an idea of how well the product is selling and how effective the company's inventory process is.
What Is the Occupancy Rate?  

Occupancy rate is the ratio of rented or used space to the total amount of available space. Analysts use occupancy rates when discussing senior housing, hospitals, bed-and-breakfasts, hotels, and rental units, among other categories. In a call center, occupancy rate refers to the amount of time agents spend on calls compared to their total working hours.





Key Takeaways

The occupancy rate measures the ratio of occupied to total usable rental space.This rate helps analyst understand changes in the residential and commercial real estate markets and is often used in evaluating hotel and resort properties.Occupancy rates can also be applied to residential buildings, hospital beds, or even entire cities to gauge underlying economic activity and trends.


   Occupancy Rates Explained  

To illustrate an occupancy rate, if an apartment building contains 20 units, 18 of which have renters, it has a 90% occupancy rate. Similarly, a 200-room hotel with guests in 150 rooms has a 75% occupancy rate. Conversely, the vacancy rate is the number of units in a building that are not rented out as compared to the total number of units in the building.


   Occupancy Rates and Real Estate Investors  

Occupancy rates are important to real estate investors because these numbers provide an indication of anticipated cash flows. A commercial real estate investor looking for a shopping center to buy is likely not interested in one that only has a 25% occupancy rate, meaning that tenants were leasing just 25% of the available storefronts and restaurant space in the mall.



An investor who buys a property with a relatively low occupancy rate has to spend time and money to find additional tenants, and risks not filling the spaces while still facing maintenance costs and property taxes levied on them. Because of this, apartment complexes, malls and other facilities with low occupancy rates often sell for less than similar properties with high occupancy rates. In some cases, a low occupancy rate indicates that something is wrong with the shopping center, such as its location or available amenities. In other cases, low occupancy rates may mean the facility is poorly managed by its existing owners or it is in an undesirable location.



In other cases, a real estate investor may look at the occupancy rates of hotels and other facilities near a property that they are considering to buy. These numbers can indicate something about the financial health of the area. For example, if an investor is thinking about buying a restaurant, they may try to find out the occupancy rates of nearby hotels, as those numbers affect the pool of potential diners.


   An Example of Occupancy Rates: Hospitals  

Hospital bed occupancy rates, as well as occupancy rates for nursing homes, can be useful for examining trends in the facility's growth. To avoid overcrowding, these facilities manage their occupancy rates. They often track occupancy rates for specific departments as well, to help assess growth and demand. Governments and organizations also use aggregate numbers on hospital occupancy levels to make plans regarding public health initiatives.
What Is Occupational Labor Mobility?  

Occupational labor mobility refers to the ability of workers to switch career fields in order to find gainful employment or meet the needs of industry. When conditions allow for high degrees of occupational labor mobility, it can help maintain strong employment and productivity levels. Governments may provide occupational retraining to help workers acquire the necessary skills and expedite this process.



Geographical labor mobility, on the other hand, refers to the level of flexibility and freedom laborers have to physically move from one location to another in order to find gainful employment in their field.





Key Takeaways

Occupational mobility refers to the ease with which a worker can leave one job for another in a different field.When labor mobility is high, economists predict a high degree of productivity and growth.Low-skilled labor and workers with skills that are more general or can be more readily transferred will tend to experience greater occupational labor mobility. Occupational mobility can be restricted through regulations. Licensing, training, or education requirements prevent the free flow of labor from one industry to another.


   Understanding Occupational Labor Mobility  

Labor mobility is the ease with which workers can leave one job for another. Workers may not be able to pursue new career opportunities in the event of layoffs or termination if their occupational labor mobility is limited. This can be true for workers who possess few or specialized skills that are only of use under limited circumstances. For example, a worker trained to operate a piece of machinery that only exists in one industry can face challenges seeking employment outside of that industry.



If an experienced worker who has earned a substantial salary attempts to switch career paths they may face a significant financial adjustment. This is because alternate jobs they could perform might not make use of their most developed skills, leading to a form of underemployment. For example, an archaeologist may have to find work as a landscaper if no more suitable positions are available. Such circumstances can lead to workers and professionals taking substantially lower pay than they are accustomed to or have been led to expect in the course of their education and training.



The ease with which employees can move from a job in one particular occupation to a job in a different occupation determines how quickly an economy can develop. This is because technological progress, innovation, and the creation of new industries and occupations are major components of economic development and also lead to the phenomenon of creative destruction, where the new industries and occupations displace older ones.



Labor mobility from obsolete industries and occupations into new ones is a necessary part of this process. Low occupation labor mobility can slow the adjustment to new conditions as the economy develops, and may even contribute to the darker side of progress known as destructive creation.



An easing of occupational mobility restrictions can do several things:



Increase the supply of labor in particular industries. Lower restrictions cause laborers to have an easier time entering a different industry, which can mean the demand for labor is more readily met.
Lower wage rates. If it is easier for laborers to enter a particular industry, the supply of labor will increase for a given demand, which lowers the wage rate until equilibrium is reached.
Allow nascent industries to grow. If an economy is shifting toward new industries, employees must be available to run that industry's businesses. A shortage of employees means overall productivity can be negatively impacted because there aren't enough employees to provide the service or work the machines used to make the product.


   Ways Occupational Labor Mobility Influences Productivity  

The decrease in the number of manufacturing sector jobs in favor of services-focused employment such as software development has diminished the occupational labor mobility for some workers.



The U.S. automobile industry, for example, faced ongoing staff cuts as production became more efficient and required fewer workers or was relocated overseas. Domestic job eliminations left many downsized workers unable to find employment that offered compensation that compared with their previous salary levels. Workers in other types of manufacturing-based careers have also dealt with issues of limited occupational labor mobility as their industries shrank.



Public and private employment training programs have been established to give workers the opportunity to increase their occupational labor mobility by teaching them new skills. The focus of such programs is to expand the potential career paths these individuals could succeed in. Companies can benefit from the existence of such programs because they increase the pool of potential hires for current job openings.



Occupational labor mobility can especially benefit emerging, innovation-oriented businesses. Such companies can see their productivity increase when there is a growing population of workers who possess skills that are in demand. For instance, a startup company could see its development plans stall until it hires enough software coders and programmers to work on its core product.
What Is the Occupational Safety and Health Act?  

The Occupational Safety and Health Act is a law passed by the U.S. Congress in 1970 to ensure safe workplace conditions around the country. It established the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which sets and enforces workplace health and safety standards.





Key Takeaways

The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 is a U.S. law establishing workplace standards to ensure that employees are protected from hazards that compromise their safety and health.The Occupational Safety and Health Act applies to most private sector employers and their workers, in addition to some in the public sector.The Occupational Safety and Health Act established the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety & Health (NIOSH).OSHA serves as the enforcement arm of the act, applying fines and penalties to employers that violate its rules, standards, and guidelines.


   Understanding the Occupational Safety and Health Act  

Signed into law by President Richard Nixon in Dec. 1970, the Occupational Safety and Health Act (commonly called the OSH Act) was enacted to create safe working conditions by authorizing standard work practices. Congress found that workplace personal injuries and illnesses contributed to a decline in production and wages, plus an increase in medical expenses and disability compensation. The act is designed to ensure that workers are protected from hazards that may affect their safety and health, such as exposure to toxic chemicals, damaging noise, thermal stressors, and unsanitary conditions.



To aid states and other U.S. territories in the adoption of safe and healthful working conditions, the act provided for related research, education, and training. Most states partially or fully control the occupational health and safety standards for their employees.



The Occupational Safety and Health Act established two major entities:



The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), a division of the U. S. Department of Labor, which sets and enforces workplace health and safety standardsThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), which conducts research and recommends solutions for the prevention of work-related illnesses and injuries.



The OSH Act covers most private-sector employers and their workers, in addition to some public-sector employers and workers in the 50 states and certain territories and jurisdictions under federal authority. Individuals not protected by the law include self-employed individuals, workers on small family farms, and those working in an industry regulated by a separate federal agency.






On September 9, 2021, President Joe Biden asked OSHA to draft an emergency temporary standard that mandates businesses with more than 100 workers to require vaccinations against COVID-19 or face weekly testing, and that businesses offer employees paid time off to get vaccinated.


   What Does OSHA Do?  

The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) acts as the enforcement arm of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Although the legislation gave OSHA the authority to create industry-specific guidelines, it also outlined a “general duty” clause, which applies to all employers in all industries. This clause, officially Section 5(a)(1) of the act, in effect serves as OSHA's mandate, stipulating that employers must provide a safe environment for their workers.






The general duty clause of the OSH Act officially reads: "Each employer (1) shall furnish to each of his employees employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm to his employees; (2) shall comply with occupational safety and health standards promulgated under this Act."The act also states: "Each employee shall comply with occupational safety and health standards and all rules, regulations, and orders issued pursuant to this Act which are applicable to his own actions and conduct."



In some parts of the country, an OSHA-approved state agency helps set and enforce job safety standards. But these standards must be at least as stringent as those of federal guidelines.



OSHA enforces its regulations and standards by conducting inspections of workplaces and work sites. Violators face penalties and fines, which are adjusted annually for inflation.



In 2021, infractions can incur penalties ranging from $975 to $13,653 per violation. In the most extreme cases—for what OSHA deems "willful or repeated" behavior—the maximum imposed goes as high as $136,532 per violation.









Fines Imposed on Employers for Violating OSHA Rules




 Type of Violation
 Maximum Penalty


SeriousOther-Than-SeriousPosting Requirements
 $13,653 per violation


Failure to Abate
 $13,653 per day beyond the abatement date


Willful or Repeated
 $136,532 per violation



These penalties are current as of Jan. 2021. Source: OSHA



The size of the fine depends on the seriousness of the violation and the number of workers the company employs: Businesses with 10 or fewer employees might receive up to an 80% reduction in the penalty; those with 21 to 30 receive 50%. Those with more than 250 workers pay the full amount.
What Is an Occurrence Policy?  

An occurrence policy covers claims made for injuries sustained during the life of an insurance policy. Under these types of contracts, the insured party has the right to request compensation for damages that occurred within the timespan that the policy was active, even if several years have since passed and the insurance agreement is no longer in force.





Key Takeaways

An occurrence policy covers claims made for injuries sustained during the life of an insurance policy, even if they're filed after the policy is canceled.They cater specifically to events that may cause injury of damage years after they occur, such as exposure to hazardous chemicals.An occurrence policy is an alternative to claims-made ones, which provide benefits only if a claim is filed while the policy is active.Insurers typically place a cap on the total coverage offered through occurrence policies.


   Understanding Occurrence Policies  

Liability insurance policies generally fall into one of two categories: Claims-made or occurrence. The latter offers protection against financial loss on incidents that happened while the policy was in effect, regardless of when they're flagged and became apparent. In other words, it's possible to file a claim later, long after the contract has expired, provided there's evidence that its cause or triggering event took place during the period the insurance was active.



Occurrence policies cater specifically to events that may cause injury of damage years after they occur. For example, if an individual is exposed to hazardous chemicals, a significant amount of time could pass before they fall ill.



Occurrence coverage will usually cover the employer and the former employee for life. Years can pass before the injuries or damages become evident, and the policyholder is still protected, even after stopping insurance or switching to another provider.






In insurance, an occurrence is defined as “an accident, including continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same general harmful conditions.”



Insurers typically place a cap on the total coverage offered through such a policy. One form of cap limits the amount of coverage offered each year but lets the coverage limit reset each year. For instance, a company that purchases five years of occurrence coverage with an annual cap of $1 million will allow the policyholder to have up to $5 million in total coverage.


   Occurrence Policies vs. Claims-Made   

Claims-made insurance only pays out if a claim is filed while the policy is active. That means if you cancel protection and then ask for compensation, you won’t be given it—unless an extended reporting period (ERP) or “tail coverage” is purchased.



Business insurance policies are often offered as either a claims-made policy or an occurrence policy. While the claims-made policy provides coverage for claims when the event is reported, the occurrence policy provides coverage when the event occurs.



Claims-made policies are used to cover the risks associated with business operations, such as the potential for mistakes associated with errors and omissions in financial statements. They are also applied to cover businesses from claims made by employees, including wrongful termination, sexual harassment, and discrimination allegations. This type of liability is referred to as employment practices liability (EPLI), and might also cover the actions of directors and officers of the business.



Until the mid-1960s the claims-made wording didn’t exist, and into the early to mid-1970s its use was sporadic. The occurrence form now dominates, except for most professional and executive liability exposures, where claims-made policies rule.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an Occurrence Policy  

The most obvious benefit of an occurrence policy is that it offers long-term protection. As long as coverage is in place when the incident occurred, it’s possible to make a claim on that period years into the future.



Another advantage is that occurrence policy costs tend to be fixed. Premiums generally don’t increase unless the risk profile of the insured changes.



On the downside, occurrence policies are, understandably, more expensive than claims-made ones. Occasionally, they can be harder to come by, too.



There’s also the risk that a company taking out such a policy underestimates the level of damages it could incur later on down the line, forcing it, as a result, to pay out a chunk from its own pocket.
What Is an Ocean Bill of Lading?  

An ocean bill of lading is a document required for the transportation of goods overseas across international waters. An ocean bill of lading serves as both the carrier's receipt to the shipper, and as a collection document or an invoice. The contract is a legally binding document between both the shipper and the carrier of the shipment.



A bill of lading is a legal document or contract between the shipper and carrier which details the type, quantity, and destination of goods being carried. The bill of lading serves as a receipt of shipment when the goods are delivered at the predetermined destination. There are different kinds of bills of lading, each with unique stipulations and conditions. 


   How an Ocean Bill of Lading Works  

An ocean bill of lading allows the shipper to move goods across international waters. This document or contract provides the specifics involving the nature of the shipment including what and how much material is being transported, along with where the goods will be shipped. Other information outlined in the contract includes the value of the goods shipped and the type of packing used during transport.



The shipper receives the contract when the goods are picked up. The document must be signed by both the shipper and the carrier. Once the shipment is complete, the document is given to the receiver. Upon delivery and receipt, the receiver must also sign the contract.



There is an additional document—known as an inland bill of lading—that is required if the goods are to be transported first over land. This inland bill only allows the materials to reach the shore, while the ocean bill allows the goods to be transported overseas.






Inland bills of lading are required if the shipment needs to travel further in the destination country after it arrives at the dock.


   Example of Ocean Bill of Lading  

Ocean bills of lading, as mentioned above, are used when goods are transported overseas through waterways. When a car manufacturer ships vehicles to a dealership overseas, it needs an ocean bill of lading to complete the transfer of goods. If the vehicles must be transferred further into the destination country—so further from the port—it must have an inland bill of lading to move the vehicles. So a U.S.-based dealership will sign an ocean bill of lading with a Japanese carmaker for the transport of vehicles to the United States. An additional inland bill of lading is required if the shipment arrives in Seattle, but is destined for Billings, Montana.





Key Takeaways

An ocean bill of lading is a document required for the transportation of goods overseas across international waters.The contract is legal and outlines the type, quantity, and destination of goods being carried.The shipper and carrier sign the ocean bill of lading upon shipment, and the receiver signs the document upon receipt. 


   Common Types of Ocean Bills of Lading  

There are several different types of ocean bills of lading that are used. The straight bill of lading is non-negotiable and is marked as such. The only person who has a claim to the goods when they reach the destination port is the person named on the bill. These bills generally involve parties that have open accounts, where the shipper may not require the funds from the receiver up front. The non-negotiable ocean bill of lading allows the buyer to receive the goods upon showing identification.



A shipper's order is a negotiable bill of lading and is generally put into place when the shipper wishes to ensure certain terms and conditions are met before the shipment is released to the receiver. This is used when the receiver's payment is backed by a letter of credit.
What Is the October Effect?  

The October effect is a perceived market anomaly that stocks tend to decline during the month of October. The October effect is considered to be more of a psychological expectation than an actual phenomenon, as most statistics go against the theory. Some investors may be nervous during October because some large historical market crashes occurred during this month.



Along with the September effect (which also predicts weaker markets during October), actual evidence for the existence of the October effect is not very solid. Indeed, October’s 100-year history has, in fact, been net positive despite being the month of the 1907 panic, Black Tuesday, Thursday, and Monday in 1929, and Black Monday in 1987, when the Dow plummeted 22.6% in a single day, (and remains arguably the worst single-day decline in market history on a percentage basis).





Key Takeaways

The October effect is the perception that stock markets decline during the month of October, and it is classified as a market anomaly.It is one of several calendar anomalies, along with the supposed September effect and Santa Claus rally.The October effect is considered to be more of a psychological expectation than an actual phenomenon, as most statistics go against the theory.The October effect, as well as other calendar anomalies, largely have seemed to disappear over the past decades.In fact, October has tended to be a net positive month, on average, over the past century or more.


   Understanding the October Effect  

Proponents of the October effect, one of the most popular of the so-called calendar effects, argue that October is when some of the greatest crashes in stock market history, including the 1929 Black Tuesday and Black Thursday and the 1987 stock market crash, occurred. While statistical evidence doesn’t support the phenomenon that stocks trade lower in October, the psychological expectations for the October effect still exist.



The October effect, however, tends to be overrated. Despite the dark titles, this seeming concentration of days is not statistically significant. In fact, September has more down months historically than does October. From a historical perspective, October has marked the end of more bear markets than the beginning. This puts October in an interesting perspective for contrarian buying. If investors tend to see a month negatively, it will create opportunities to buy during that month. However, the end of the October effect, if it ever was a market force, is already at hand, as the month's stock market results have tended to be net positive, on average, over the past century or more.


   October Crashes  

What is true is that October traditionally has been the most volatile month for stocks. According to research from LPL Financial, there are more 1% or larger swings in October in the S&P 500 than any other month in history dating back to 1950. Some of that can be attributed to the fact that October precedes elections in early November in the U.S. every other year. Oddly enough, September, not October, has more historical down markets.



However, October also has had its fair share of record stock market crashes. Some of the events that have given October the reputation for stock losses have happened over decades, but they include:



The Panic of 1907Black Tuesday (1929)Black Thursday (1929)Black Monday (1929)Black Monday (1987)



More important, the catalysts that set off both the 1929 crash and the 1907 panic happened in September or earlier, and the reaction was simply delayed.



In 1907, the panic nearly occurred in March. Throughout the year, the public’s confidence in trust companies continued to diminish; they were considered risky because of their lack of regulation. Eventually, public skepticism came to a head in October and sparked a run on the trusts.



The 1929 Crash arguably began in February, when the Federal Reserve banned margin-trading loans and cranked up interest rates.






In contrast to October effect predictions, October 2022 was one of the most positive months in U.S. stock market history, with the Dow Jones up around 12% and the S&P 500 up close to 6%.


   The Disappearance of the October Effect  

The numbers don’t support the October effect. If we look at all October monthly returns going back more than a century, there simply is no data on average to support the claim that October is a losing month. Indeed, some historical events have fallen in the month of October, but they have mostly stuck around in the collective memory because Black Monday sounds ominous. Markets have also crashed in months other than October.



Many investors today have a better memory of the dotcom crash and the 2008–2009 financial crisis, yet none of those days were given the "black" moniker to bear for their particular month. Lehman Brothers’ collapse happened on a Monday in September and marked a major escalation in the global stakes of the financial crisis, but it didn’t get reported as a new Black Monday. For whatever reason, the news media no longer leads with black days—and Wall Street doesn’t seem eager to revive the practice, either.



Moreover, an increasingly global pool of investors doesn’t have the same historical perspective when it comes to the calendar. The end of the October effect was inevitable, as it was mostly a gut feeling mixed with a few random occurrences that created a myth. In a way, this is unfortunate, as it would be ideal for investors if financial disasters, panics, and crashes chose to occur only in one month of the year.




Is the October Effect Real?
The data suggests that it isn't. But some people seem to believe in it, perhaps because many of the events that happened long ago such as the 1987 Black Monday crash were significant at the time. Because there is a psychological bias toward predicting a negative outcome for this month—even though the data does not support it—there is potential for some investors to be fearful of an October downturn.




Are Stocks Usually Down in October?
No. Since 1928, stocks have, on average, risen in the month of October by more than 0.6%.




Which Has Been the Worst Month for Stocks Historically?
This will depend on the time period you look at, but over the past century, September has been the worst-performing month for stocks, losing around 1% on average.


   The Bottom Line  

The October effect is the belief that stocks fall, on average, during the month of October. This supposed market anomaly has been cited in reflection of large market crashes that have occurred during this month, such as 1987's Black Monday. However, actual evidence for the October effect is scant—and, in fact, October has been a net positive month, on average, going back a century.



Indeed, October of 2022 was one of the best-performing months in recent stock market history. As with other supposed market anomalies, the reality is that they probably don't exist, as markets do tend to be efficient (especially once anomalies are identified and publicly known). As such, one probably should not use the notion of the October effect to make trading decisions.
What Is an Odd Lot?  

An odd lot is an order amount for a security that is less than the normal unit of trading for that particular asset. Odd lots are considered to be anything less than the standard 100 shares for stocks. Trading commissions for odd lots are generally higher on a percentage basis than those for standard lots since most brokerage firms have a fixed minimum commission level for undertaking such transactions.


   Understanding Odd Lots  

Odd lots may inadvertently arise in an investor's portfolio through reverse splits or dividend reinvestment plans. For example, a one-for-eight reverse split of a security, of which the investor holds 200 shares, will result in a post-split amount of 25 shares. While trading commissions for odd lots may still be higher than for standard lots on a percentage basis, the popularity of online trading platforms and the consequent plunge in brokerage commissions means that it is no longer as difficult or expensive for investors to dispose of odd lots as it used to be in the past. 





Key Takeaways

An odd lot refers to an order amount for a security that is less than the normal unit of trading for an asset, which is typically 100 shares for stocks.Odd lots contrast with round lots, which are order amounts for a security that can be divided easily by 100.Odd lots tend to emerge in a portfolio as a result of a company announcing a reverse stock split, or due to dividend reinvestment plans.An odd lot order generally costs more due to higher commission levels and takes longer to complete than other orders.Large companies view odd lots as pretty insignificant and may choose to eliminate such holdings by buying out the shareholder at a premium or offering the shareholder more stock to make a round lot.


   Odd Lots, Round Lots, and Mixed Lots  

While odd lots can include any number of shares between one and 100, a round lot is any lot of shares that can be evenly divided by 100. For example, 75 shares would be an odd lot since it is below 100 shares, while 300 shares would be counted as a round lot since it can be evenly divided by 100.



While round lots are posted on the associated exchange, odd lots are not posted as part of the bid/ask data. Further, the execution of odd-lot trades does not display on various data reporting sources. Due to the uncommon number of shares involved in the trade, odd-lot transactions often take longer to complete than those associated with round lots.



Mixed lots include lots with over 100 shares, but that cannot be evenly divided by 100. For example, 147 or 2,999 would both be mixed lots. Reporting on mixed lots, including bid/ask data, generally only displays the portion that constitutes a round lot. For example, using the aforementioned mixed-lot sizes, the 147 shares would report as 100 and the 2,999 shares would report as 2,900.


   Issuing Company Actions on Odd Lots  

Since an odd lot is considered fairly insignificant to larger institutions, a company may choose to eliminate any odd holdings from the marketplace. This can include buying out the associated shareholder at a premium, offering additional shares to the shareholder to create a round lot, or engaging in a reverse split designed to result in the odd lot becoming equivalent to less than one share to pay the investor cash for a residual holding.
What Is the Odd Lot Theory?  

The odd lot theory is a technical analysis hypothesis based on the assumption that the small individual investor is usually wrong and that individual investors are more likely to generate odd-lot sales. Therefore, if odd lot sales are up and small investors are selling a stock, it is probably a good time to buy, and when odd-lot purchases are up, it may indicate a good time to sell.





Key Takeaways

Odd-lot trades refer to orders involving shares less than a round lot of 100 shares.These odd-lot trades are thought to be made predominantly by individual retail traders who are likely less informed participants in the market.Odd lot theory advises trading against these uninformed traders' activity.Testing of this hypothesis seems to indicate that this observation is not persistently valid.


   Understanding the Odd Lot Theory  

The odd lot theory focuses on following activities of individual investors trading in odd lots. This hypothesis also assumes that professional investors and traders tend to trade in round lot sizes (multiples of 100 shares), to improve pricing efficiency in their orders. Although this thinking was common lore from about 1950 until the end of the century, it has since become less popular.


   Odd Lot Trades  

Odd lot trades are trade orders made by investors that include less than 100 shares in the transaction or are not a multiple of 100. These trade orders generally encompass individual investors that the theory believes are less educated and influential in the market overall.



Round lots are the opposite of odd lots. They begin at 100 shares and are divisible by 100. These trade orders are seen to be more compelling as an indicator as they are typically made by professional traders or institutional investors.



Although technical analysts have the ability to follow the volume of odd-lot trades through technical analysis charting software programs, testing since the 1990s shows that these kinds of trades no longer seem to signify market turns. Given the information efficiencies of the information age, even individual investors may be just as likely to make an informed trade as an institutional trade. While the odd lot theory implies that these investors may be more important to follow for trade signals, this concept has become less important to analysts over time.



There are multiple reasons for this. The first reason is that individual investors began investing more heavily in mutual funds, which pool money into the hands of institutional investors. Secondly, fund managers and individuals alike began using exchange-traded funds (ETFs), with large volume being normal for the most popular ETF offerings.



A third reason is the increased automation and computerization of market-making firms and the increased technology of high-frequency traders. Together, these factors have created an environment where order processing has become far more efficient. The greater efficiency of the markets has meant that odd lots are not processed any less effectively than round-lot orders.


   Testing the Odd Lot Theory  

Analysis of the odd lot theory, culminating in the 1990s, seems to disprove its general effectiveness. Whether because individual investors are not generally prone to making bad investment decisions, or because institutional traders no longer fear making trades in odd lots is not easily determined.



Overall, the theory is no longer as valid as many researchers and academics once opined. Author Burton Malkiel, credited for popularizing Random Walk Theory has stated that the individual investor, also known as the odd lotter, is generally not as uninformed or as incorrect as had been previously thought.
What Is Odious Debt?  

Odious debt, also known as illegitimate debt, is when a country's government changes and the successor government does not want to pay debts incurred by the previous government. Usually, successor governments argue that the previous government misappropriated money it had borrowed and that they should not be held responsible for the previous regime’s alleged misdeeds. 





Key Takeaways

Odious debt is a term applied to a predecessor government's debt that a successor government wishes to repudiate on ostensibly moral grounds.Odious debt is not an established principle of international law, but is often given as a rationale by the victors of civil or international conflict to repudiate their defeated opponents’ debts.The successful application of the concept of odious debt presents a significant risk for investors in sovereign debt and may increase borrowing costs for countries under threat of regime change.


   Understanding Odious Debt  

Odious debt is not a concept officially recognized in international law. No national or international court or governing body has ever invalidated sovereign obligations on the grounds of odious debt. Odious debt is clearly at odds with established international law, which generally holds successor governments accountable for the debts of regimes that preceded them.



The concept of odious debt is most often raised when the government of a country changes hands violently either through conquest by another country or through internal revolution. The new government in such a situation is rarely eager to take on the debts of the vanquished predecessor. 



Other than simply wanting to get out of the debt, governments may consider debt odious when previous government leaders used borrowed funds in ways that the new government does not agree with, sometimes claiming that the borrowed funds did not benefit its citizens, and to the contrary, may have been used to oppress them. Indeed, it is routine for victors of civil war or international conflict to accuse the regimes they have deposed or conquered of corruption, abuse, or general malevolence. As the saying goes, “the winners write the history books.” 



Despite international law, the concept of odious debt has been successfully used as a post hoc rationale when the victors of such conflicts are powerful enough to enforce their will on world financial markets and international lenders. In reality, whether or not the successor regime is held to repayment by the previous government’s creditors tends to boil down to a question of who is more powerful. New regimes that gain international recognition or the support of major military powers tend to be more successful at repudiating the old debts. 


   Examples of Odious Debt  

The idea behind odious debt first gained notoriety after the Spanish-American War. The U.S. government argued that Cuba should not be held liable for debts incurred by the Spanish colonial regime, the colonial rulers of Cuba. While Spain disagreed, Spain, not Cuba, ultimately was left with the post-war debt, due to the balance of power between the triumphant colonial power of the U.S. and the defeated Spanish Empire bereft of the last of its overseas territories after the war.



Odious debt has been raised as an argument by regimes in Nicaragua, the Philippines, Haiti, South Africa, Congo, Niger, Croatia, Iraq, and other countries who accuse previous rulers of either personally looting national funds for their own accounts or using the money to restrict liberties and inflict violence on their own citizens. In all such cases, the actual resolution or restructuring of old debt in the wake of regime changes has followed geopolitical and strategic considerations rather than the proposed doctrine of odious debt.



For example, the apartheid-era government of South Africa borrowed from international banks and investors to build dams, power plants, and other infrastructure. When the African National Congress (ANC) took power in 1994, it inherited these debts. Many members of the successor government, led by President Nelson Mandela, argued that these debts were odious due to the social policies of the prior regime.



However, with the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, which had heavily supported the ANC, the new South African government found itself lacking in powerful international allies who would be willing to support repudiation of the existing debt. In order to maintain access to international credit markets, the new government ended up paying those debts, so as not to scare off badly needed foreign investment.


   Foreign Investment and Odious Debt  

The prospect of regime change and the repudiation of the previous regime's contractual obligations presents a direct risk for investors who deal in sovereign debt. Investors who hold loans or bonds of an existing government run the risk that the funds will not be repaid if the borrower is overthrown or subjugated by another power. 



In particular, because the concept of odious debt is generally applied retroactively to debts that were recognized and legal and legitimate at the time, but is also applied nearly universally to the losers of international or internecine conflict, lenders can only account for this as part of the general risk of the political stability of a borrower. This risk is embodied in a premium on the return demanded by investors, which tend to be greater when potential successor governments become more likely to be able to make charges of odious debt stick. 


   Moral Arguments and Odious Debt  

Some legal scholars argue that, for moral reasons, these debts should not have to be repaid. Proponents of the idea of odious debt believe countries doing the lending must have known, or should have known, of the alleged oppressive conditions upon offering the credit. They have held that successor governments should not be liable for odious debt that earlier regimes passed down to them. 



One obvious moral hazard in labeling debt odious after the fact is that successor governments, some that may have a lot in common with the ones that preceded them, may use odious debt as an excuse to wriggle out of obligations they should pay. A potential solution to resolve this moral hazard, forwarded by economists Michael Kremer and Seema Jayachandran, is that the international community could announce that all future contracts with a particular regime are odious.



Therefore, lending to that regime following such a decree would be internationally recognized at the lender’s peril, as they would not be repaid if the regime is later toppled. This would transform the concept of odious debt from a post hoc rationalization for countries to repudiate their debts into a forward-looking weapon of international conflict as an alternative or prelude to open warfare. Rival powers and coalitions could then use the concept of odious debt to restrict each other's access to capital markets by accusing their opponents of various misdeeds, before launching a coup, invasion, or insurgency.
What Is OEX?  

OEX, which trades on the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), is the ticker symbol used to identify Standard & Poor's 100 index options.





Key Takeaways

OEX, which trades on the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), is the ticker symbol used to identify Standard & Poor's 100 index options.OEX options were the original standard for index options trading on the domestic stock market, though, over time, options on the S&P 500 (SPX) passed them in popularity.Traders use OEX options to hedge or speculate on the performance of the large-cap segment of the stock market.


   Understanding OEX  

OEX options were the original standard for index options trading on the domestic stock market. Over time, options on the S&P 500 (SPX) passed them in popularity. To the dismay of OEX followers, the calculation for the CBOE volatility index, called the VIX, changed from using OEX options to SPX options in 2003. Traders can watch the old version via the symbol VXO.



The Standard & Poor's 100 index is a subset of the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index and tracks the performance of the 100 largest stocks, by market capitalization, in the U.S. market. It is a capitalization-weighted index and the stocks are chosen from a broad range of industries, thus making the index a proxy for U.S. corporate performance. Each component stock is weighted according to the total market value of its outstanding shares. Therefore, the impact of a component's price change is proportional to its market cap or market value, which is the share price times the number of shares outstanding.



Although it may not be as popular as the S&P 500, it remains an important benchmark for many asset managers with money invested in the big, blue-chip arena. The key criteria for the inclusion of a stock in the index include having options available, and at least 50% of the stock must be available to the general public to trade.


   Options Trading  

Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying asset at a specific price at or by a specific date. In the case of OEX options, it would be the right to buy or sell the S&P 100 Index. Since an index is not a tangible item, OEX options settle for cash.



Traders use OEX options to hedge or speculate on the performance of the large-cap segment of the stock market. Strategies, such as vertical spreads and strangles, are possible with OEX options just as they are with individual stock options.



For example, a money manager holds a portfolio of blue-chip stocks but is worried short-term market conditions could impact it negatively. The manager might hedge by buying an OEX put option with a near expiration as insurance, in case the market drops suddenly. While the portfolio managed may not hold all 100 OEX stocks in the same proportions, the correlation between the two might be strong enough that the hedge makes sense.
What Is Off-Balance Sheet (OBS)?  

Off-balance sheet (OBS) items is a term for assets or liabilities that do not appear on a company's balance sheet. Although not recorded on the balance sheet, they are still assets and liabilities of the company. Off-balance sheet items are typically those not owned by or are a direct obligation of the company. For example, when loans are securitized and sold off as investments, the secured debt is often kept off the bank's books. Prior to a change in accounting rules that brought obligations relating to most significant operating leases onto the balance sheet, an operating lease was one of the most common off-balance items.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Off-Balance Sheet  

Off-balance sheet items are an important concern for investors when assessing a company's financial health. Off-balance sheet items are often difficult to identify and track within a company's financial statements because they often only appear in the accompanying notes. Also, of concern is some off-balance sheet items have the potential to become hidden liabilities. For example, collateralized debt obligations (CDO) can become toxic assets, assets that can suddenly become almost completely illiquid, before investors are aware of the company's financial exposure.



Off-balance sheet items are not inherently intended to be deceptive or misleading, although they can be misused by bad actors to be deceptive. Certain businesses routinely keep substantial off-balance sheet items. For example, investment management firms are required to keep clients' investments and assets off-balance sheet. For most companies, off-balance sheet items exist in relation to financing, enabling the company to maintain compliance with existing financial covenants. Off-balance sheet items are also used to share the risks and benefits of assets and liabilities with other companies, as in the case of joint venture (JV) projects.



The Enron scandal was one of the first developments to bring the use of off-balance-sheet entities to the public's attention. In Enron's case, the company would build an asset such as a power plant and immediately claim the projected profit on its books even though it hadn't made one dime from it. If the revenue from the power plant was less than the projected amount, instead of taking the loss, the company would then transfer these assets to an off-the-books corporation, where the loss would go unreported.





Key Takeaways

Off-balance sheet (OBS) items are an accounting practice whereby a company does not include a liability on its balance sheet.While not recorded on the balance sheet itself, these items are nevertheless assets and liabilities of the company.Off-balance sheet items can be used to keep debt-to-equity (D/E) and leverage ratios low, facilitating cheaper borrowing and preventing bond covenants from being breached.The practice of off-balance sheet financing has come under increasing scrutiny after a number of accounting scandals revealed the mis-use of the practice.


   Types of Off-Balance Sheet Items  

There are several ways to structure off-balance sheet items. The following is a short list of some of the most common:


  Operating Lease  

An OBS operating lease is one in which the lessor retains the leased asset on its balance sheet. The company leasing the asset only accounts for the monthly rental payments and other fees associated with the rental rather than listing the asset and corresponding liability on its own balance sheet.At the end of the lease term, the lessee generally has the opportunity to purchase the asset at a drastically reduced price.


  Leaseback Agreements  

Under a leaseback agreement, a company can sell an asset, such as a piece of property, to another entity. They may then lease that same property back from the new owner.



Like an operating lease, the company only lists the rental expenses on its balance sheet, while the asset itself is listed on the balance sheet of the owning business.


  Accounts Receivables  

Accounts receivable (AR) represents a considerable liability for many companies. This asset category is reserved for funds that have not yet been received from customers, so the possibility of default is high. Instead of listing this risk-laden asset on its own balance sheet, companies can essentially sell this asset to another company, called a factor, which then acquires the risk associated with the asset. The factor pays the company a percentage of the total value of all AR upfront and takes care of collection. Once customers have paid up, the factor pays the company the balance due minus a fee for services rendered. In this way, a business can collect what is owed while outsourcing the risk of default.


   How Off-Balance Sheet Financing Works  

An operating lease, used in off-balance sheet financing (OBSF), is a good example of a common off-balance sheet item. Assume that a company has an established line of credit with a bank whose financial covenant condition stipulates that the company must maintain its debt-to-assets ratio below a specified level. Taking on additional debt to finance the purchase of new computer hardware would violate the line of credit covenant by raising the debt-to-assets ratio above the maximum specified level.






OBSF is controversial and has attracted closer regulatory scrutiny since it was exposed as a key strategy of the ill-fated energy giant Enron.



The company solves its financing problem by using a subsidiary or special purpose entity (SPE), which purchases the hardware and then leases it to the company through an operating lease while legal ownership is retained by the separate entity. The company must only record the lease expense on its financial statements. Even though it effectively controls the purchased equipment, the company does not have to recognize additional debt nor list the equipment as an asset on its balance sheet.


   Off-Balance Sheet Financing Reporting Requirements  

Companies must follow Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requirements by disclosing OBSF in the notes of its financial statements. Investors can study these notes and use them to decipher the depth of potential financial issues, although as the Enron case showed, this is not always as straightforward as it seems.



In Feb. 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the issuer of generally accepted accounting principles, changed the rules for lease accounting. It took action after establishing that public companies in the United States with operating leases carried over $1 trillion in OBSF for leasing obligations. According to its findings, about 85% of leases were not reported on balance sheets, making it difficult for investors to determine companies' leasing activities and ability to repay their debts.﻿﻿



This OBSF practice was targeted in 2019 when Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 ASU 842 came into effect. Right-of-use assets and liabilities resulting from leases are now to be recorded on balance sheets. According to the FASB: “A lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.”﻿﻿



Enhanced disclosures in qualitative and quantitative reporting in footnotes of financial statements is also now required. Additionally, OBSF for sale and leaseback transactions will not be available.
What Is Off-Balance Sheet Financing (OBSF)?  

The term off-balance sheet (OBSF) financing refers to an accounting practice that involves recording corporate assets or liabilities in such a way that doesn't make them appear on a company's balance sheet. The practice is used to keep debt-to-equity (D/E) and leverage ratios low, especially if the inclusion of a large expenditure would break negative debt covenants. Off-balance sheet financing is a legal practice as long as companies follow accounting rules and regulations. It becomes illegal if corporate heads use it to hide assets or liabilities from investors and financial regulators.





Key Takeaways

Off-balance sheet financing is an accounting practice where companies keep certain assets and liabilities from being reported on balance sheets.This practice helps companies keep debt-to-equity and leverage ratios low, resulting in cheaper borrowing and the prevention of covenants from being breached.Off-balance sheet financing isn't illegal as long as companies abide by accounting rules and regulations.Regulators are keen on clamping down on questionable OBSF.More stringent reporting rules are in place to give more transparency to controversial operating leases.


   Understanding Off-Balance Sheet Financing (OBSF)  

Companies with mountains of debt often do whatever they can to ensure that their leverage ratios do not lead their agreements with lenders, otherwise known as covenants, to be breached. By the same token, a healthier-looking balance sheet is likely to attract more investors. To meet these goals, they may need to turn to certain accounting strategies like OBSF.



Off-balance sheet financing is an accounting practice that allows companies to keep certain assets and liabilities off their balance sheets. Although they may not be present on the sheet, they still belong to the business. OBSF is commonly used by businesses that are highly leveraged, especially when taking on more debt means a higher debt-to-equity ratio. The more debt a company has, the higher the risk of default for the lender. This means charging the company a higher interest rate.



This practice involves omitting certain capital expenditures or assets from the balance sheet. This means shifting ownership to other entities like partners or subsidiaries in which the company secures a minority claim. As such, examples may include joint ventures (JV), research and development (R&D) partnerships, and operating leases. Some corporations use special purpose vehicles (SPVs) with their own balance sheets to which they transfer these assets and liabilities.



Although it sounds sketchy, off-balance sheet financing is a legitimate and very legal practice—as long as companies abide by established accounting rules and regulations. Companies in the United States are required to abide by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The strategy becomes illegal when it is used to hide financial irregularities, as was the case with Enron.






Although certain transactions may not appear on a company's balance sheet, they often show up in accompanying financial statements. As an investor, it's important to read between the lines as this information may often be buried in other financial forms.


   Special Considerations  

There are rules and regulations in place to ensure that corporate accounting is fair and accurate. As such, regulators frown upon OBSF as an accounting method and are making it harder for companies to use it. Demand to make off-balance sheet financing more transparent is growing. The aim is to help investors make better and more well-informed decisions about where to invest their money. Despite the push, companies may still find ways to pretty up their balance sheets going forward.



The key to identifying red flags in OBSF is to read financial statements in full. As an investor, you should keep an eye out for words like partnerships, rental, or lease expenses and cast a critical eye over them. You may also want to contact company management to clarify if OBSF agreements are being used and to determine how much they really affect liabilities.


   Off-Balance Sheet Financing (OBSF) Reporting Requirements  

Companies must follow Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and GAAP requirements by disclosing OBSF in the notes of their financial statements. Investors can study these notes and use them to decipher the depth of potential financial issues, although this isn't always as straightforward as it seems.



Over the years, regulators have been seeking to clamp down further on questionable financial reporting of this kind. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), changed the rules for lease accounting. It took action after establishing that public companies in the United States with operating leases carried over $1.25 trillion in OBSF for leasing obligations. According to the International Accounting Standards (IAS) Board, roughly 85% of leases were not reported on balance sheets, making it difficult for investors to determine leasing activities and companies' ability to repay their debts.



The Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 ASC 842 came into effect in 2019. Right-of-use assets and liabilities resulting from leases are now to be recorded on balance sheets.



Enhanced disclosures in qualitative and quantitative reporting in footnotes of financial statements are also now required. Additionally, OBSF for sale and leaseback transactions are available.


   Types of Off-Balance Sheet Financing (OBSF)  

As noted above, there are a number of tools companies have at their disposal when it comes to off-balance sheet financing. Operating leases are some of the most popular ways to overcome these issues. Here's how this process works.



Rather than buying equipment outright, a company rents or leases it and then purchases it at a minimal price when the lease period ends. Choosing this option enabled a company to record only the rental cost for the equipment. Booking it as an operating expense on the income statement results in lower liabilities on its balance sheet.



Joint ventures and R&D partnerships are also commonly used in this type of accounting practice. When a company creates a JV or other type of partnership, it does not have to show the partnership’s liabilities on its balance sheet, even if it has a controlling interest in that entity.


   Example of Off-Balance Sheet Financing (OBSF)  

Disgraced energy giant Enron used a form of off-balance sheet financing known as SPVs to hide mountains of debt and toxic assets from investors and creditors. The company traded its quickly rising stock for cash or notes from the SPV. The SPV used the stock for hedging assets on Enron's balance sheet.



When Enron's stock began falling, the values of the SPVs went down, and Enron was financially liable for supporting them. Because Enron could not repay its creditors and investors, the company filed for bankruptcy. Although the SPVs were disclosed in the notes on the company's financial documents, few investors understood the seriousness of the situation.




How Does Off-Balance Sheet Financing Work?
Off-balance sheet financing is an accounting strategy that companies use to move certain assets, liabilities, or transactions away from their balance sheets. They may do this to attract more investors or when they have a lot of debt but need to borrow more capital to fund their operations. Companies with higher debt do this to get better financing rates. They may move these transactions to other entities, like a subsidiary or a special purpose vehicle with its own balance sheet, or to a partner in a joint venture. These transactions appear on other financial records. Although it sounds illegal, it isn't, as long as companies are transparent and follow accounting standards.




How Do You Know That a Company Uses Off-Balance Sheet Financing?
Companies are required to be transparent about their accounting practices. And demand for more transparency from accounting and financial regulators is increasing for companies to be more forthcoming in the way they account for their financial situations. This means they should include notes in all their financial reporting. Despite this, some companies may find other ways to dress up their balance sheets so it's important to look out for wording like partnerships, rental, or lease expenses.




What Happened With Enron's Balance Sheets?
Enron was an American energy, services, and commodity company. The corporation hid millions of dollars of debt and losses that it amassed from a series of failed projects and schemes from investors and analysts by using special purpose vehicles and special purpose entities. These were all kept off the company's balance sheets, thereby misleading board members and investors of these high-risk practices. Investors began losing confidence, which trickled down to Enron's SPVs and SPEs. Enron was forced to declare bankruptcy.
What Are Off-Chain Transactions (Cryptocurrency)?  

Off-chain transactions refer to those transactions occurring on a cryptocurrency network that move the value outside of the blockchain. Due to their zero/low cost, off-chain transactions are gaining popularity, especially among large participants.



Off-chain transactions can be contrasted with on-chain transactions.





Key Takeaways

In blockchain-based cryptocurrencies, off-chain transactions refer to those which occur outside of the blockchain itself.Off-chain transactions can work by swapping private keys to an existing wallet instead of transferring funds, or by using a third-party or coupon-based interlocutor.Off-chain transactions can entail lower fees, immediate settlement, and greater anonymity than on-chain transactions.Depending on the method used, off-chain transactions may eventually have to be recorded on-chain.


   Understanding Off-Chain Transactions  

Off-chain transactions can be better understood when compared to on-chain transactions. An on-chain transaction, simply called a transaction, occurs and is considered valid when the blockchain is modified to reflect the transaction on the public ledger. It involves the transaction being validated and authenticated by a suitable number of participants, recording the details of the transaction on the suitable block, and broadcasting the necessary information to the whole blockchain network, which makes it irreversible.



This kind of transaction can be reversed only after a majority of the network's hashing power comes to an agreement. Essentially, every step linked to an on-chain transaction occurs on the blockchain, and the blockchain status is modified to reflect the occurrence and validity of the transaction.



In contrast, an off-chain transaction takes the value outside of the blockchain. It can be executed using multiple methods.



There can be a transfer agreement between transacting parties.
Using a third party such as a guarantor who guarantees to honor the transaction. Present-day payment processors such as PayPal work on these lines.
A participant purchases coupons in exchange for the crypto-tokens and gives the code to another party who can then redeem them. Redemption is possible in the same cryptocurrency or in different ones, depending on the coupon service provider.



In the simplest way, two parties can even exchange their private keys involving a fixed amount of crypto coins. This way, the coins never leave the address/wallet, but the currency receives a new owner off-chain.


   Off-Chain Transactions Advantages  

They can be executed instantly. On-chain transactions, on the other hand, can have a long lag time, depending upon the network load and number of transactions waiting in the queue to be confirmed.
Off-chain transactions usually don't have a transaction fee, as nothing occurs on the blockchain. Since no miner or participant is required to validate the transaction, there is no fee, making it an attractive option, especially if large amounts are involved. On-chain transactions, meanwhile, may at times come at a high cost, which leads to problems of Bitcoin Dust, a situation where small amounts of bitcoins cannot be transacted due to high transaction fees.
Off-chain transactions offer more security and anonymity to the participants because details are not publicly broadcast. In the case of on-chain transactions, it is possible to partially determine a participant’s identity by studying transaction patterns.
What Are Off-The-Run Treasuries?  

Off-the-run treasuries are all Treasury bonds and notes issued before the most recently issued bond or note of a particular maturity.



Off-the-run treasuries can be contrasted with on-the-run treasuries, which refer to the newest issues only.





Key Takeaways

Off-the-run treasuries refer to any Treasury security that has been issued, except for the newest issue, which are called on-the-run.Off-the-run treasuries tend to be somewhat less liquid than on-the-run securities, although they are still actively traded on the secondary market.The price difference between on-the-run and off-the-run Treasuries is often referred to as the liquidity premium, as the more liquid Treasuries are obtained at a higher cost. 


   Off-The-Run Treasuries Explained  

When the U.S. Treasury issues securities – Treasury notes, and bonds – it does so through an auction process to determine the price at which these debt instruments will be offered. Based on the bids received and the level of interest shown for the security, the U.S. Treasury is able to set a price for its debt securities. The new issues presented after the auction is closed are referred to as on-the-run Treasuries. Once a new Treasury security of any maturity is issued, the previously issued security with the same maturity becomes the off-the-run bond or note.



For example, if the U.S. Treasury newly issued 5-year notes in February, these notes are on-the-run and replace the previously issued 5-year notes, which become off-the-run. In March, if another batch of 5-year bonds is issued, these March notes are on-the-run Treasuries and the February notes are now off-the-run. And so on.


   Where to Trade Off-The-Run Treasuries  

While on-the-run Treasuries are available to be purchased from Treasury Direct, off-the-run securities can only be obtained from other investors through the secondary market. When Treasuries move to the secondary over-the-counter market, they become less frequently traded as investors prefer to go for more liquid securities (which are a characteristic of on-the-run Treasuries). To encourage investors to purchase these debt securities readily in the market, off-the-run Treasuries are typically less expensive and carry a slightly greater yield.



Since off-the-run Treasuries have a higher yield and lower price than on-the-run Treasuries, there is a notable yield spread between both offerings. One reason for the yield spread is the concept of supply. On-the-run Treasuries are typically issued with a fixed supply. The high demand for the limited securities pushes up their prices and, in turn, lowers the yield, causing a difference to ensue between the yields for on-the-run and off-the-run securities. In addition, off-the-run securities are mostly held to maturity in an asset manager’s portfolio as there’s not much reason to trade them. On the other hand, when portfolio managers need to shift their exposure to interest rate risk and find arbitrage opportunities, they trade on-the-run Treasuries, creating liquidity for these securities.


   Off-The-Run Yield Curves  

Although on-the-run treasury yield can be used to construct an interpolated yield curve, which is used to determine the price of debt securities, some analysts prefer to use the yield of off-the-run Treasuries to draw the yield curve. Off-the-run yields are used in cases where the demand for on-the-run Treasuries are inconsistent, thereby, causing price distortions caused by the fluctuating current demand. By deriving yield curve figures from the off-the-run Treasury rates, financial analysts can ensure that temporary fluctuations in demand do not skew the yield curve calculations or the pricing of fixed income investments.
What Is an Offensive Competitive Strategy?  

An offensive competitive strategy is a type of corporate strategy that consists of actively trying to pursue changes within the industry. Companies that go on the offensive generally make acquisitions and invest heavily in research and development (R&D) and technology in an effort to stay ahead of the competition. They will also challenge competitors by cutting off new or under-served markets, or by going head-to-head with them.



Defensive competitive strategies, by contrast, are meant to counteract offensive competitive strategies.





Key Takeaways

Offensive competitive strategies seek to shape an industry through first-mover and other aggressive moves.This can be an expensive strategy as it may include mergers & acquisitions, R&D investment, and intellectual property protection.Offensive strategies may be contrasted with defensive ones, which instead focus on establishing a wide moat through building brand loyalty, offering high quality goods, and customer service.


   Understanding Offensive Competitive Strategies  

Various techniques and strategies may be employed either alone or as part of a concerted effort to create an offensive competitive strategy. Companies may even employ entirely different strategies in different locales or marketplaces. For example, consider how a global soft drink company may react to a competitor in its mature home market compared to how it would react to a startup competitor in an emerging market. Such variability can lead to some complex offensive strategies, and even the incorporation of some defensive strategies as part of an offensive effort.



The most extreme offensive competitive strategy is when companies actively look to acquire other firms to fuel growth or limit competition. These firms are often regarded as higher risk than those that are defensive because they are more likely to be fully invested or leveraged, which could prove problematic in the event of a market slowdown or dislocation. A characteristic of all offensive strategies is that they tend to be expensive.


   Offensive Competitive Strategy Types  

There are several types of offensive competitive strategies, each with its own advantages and disadvantages.



An "end run strategy" eschews direct competition and instead seeks to exploit untouched markets or neglected segments, demographic groups or areas.
A "pre-emptive strategy" is simply the natural advantage a company has when it is the first to serve a particular marketplace or demographic. It can be exceptionally hard to unseat. Also known as "first-mover" advantage.
A "direct attack strategy" is more aggressive than the end run or preemptive offensive competitive strategies. Such a strategy may entail comparisons to competing products or companies that are unflattering, a price war, or even a competition as to who can introduce new product features at a faster pace. The direct attack may also borrow tactics of the previously listed strategies, all with the goal of taking charge of the public conversation through marketing campaigns.
An "acquisition strategy" seeks to remove a competitor by buying it. As such, it is a strategy employed by the wealthiest or best-capitalized competitor. Such a strategy offers the advantage of instantly incorporating new markets, customer bases, or corporate intelligence. Since it is such an expensive strategy, it must be used judiciously, and with the possibility of corporate antitrust rules or local competition laws in mind.


   Defensive Strategies  

Some examples of defensive strategies include:



A pricing war, in which a company commits to matching or beating a competitor on price.
Adding more features to keep ahead of a competitor.
Offering better service or warranties that speak to having better products.
Advertising and marketing more to raise awareness of improved products or service.
Partnering with suppliers or retailers to exclude or limit access to competitors.
Countering a move by a competitor, such as when one moves into a company's home market by entering their own home market.
Defensive strategies against a hostile takeover, of which there are several.
What Is an Offer?  

An offer is a conditional proposal made by a buyer or seller to buy or sell an asset, which becomes legally binding if accepted. An offer is also defined as the act of offering something for sale, or the submission of a bid to buy something.





Key Takeaways

An offer is a conditional proposal made by a buyer or seller to buy or sell an asset, which becomes legally binding if accepted.There are many different types of offers, each of which has a distinct combination of features ranging from pricing requirements, rules and regulations, type of asset, and the buyer's and seller's motives.When it comes to equity and debt offerings, the offering price is the price at which publicly issued securities are offered for purchase by the investment bank underwriting the issue.


   How Offers Work  

An offer is a clear proposal to sell or buy a specific product or service under specific conditions. Offers are made in a manner that a reasonable person would understand acceptance and will result in a binding contract. There are many different types of offers, each of which has a distinct combination of features ranging from pricing requirements, rules and regulations, type of asset, and the buyer's and seller's motives.


   Examples of Offers  

For example, when it comes to real estate purchases and negotiations, prospective home buyers will write an offer to the seller, and often list the highest price they are willing to pay. Once this official offer is submitted on a piece of real estate, it is considered binding if the seller accepts the offer.



When it comes to equity and debt offerings, the offering price is the price at which publicly issued securities are offered for purchase by the investment bank underwriting the issue. When startups decide to IPO or make their initial public offering, this offer price is estimated to be at the sweet spot where there are both demands from buyers who are interested and willing to purchase stock investments in the company, as well as considerations for the supply of stock available.



Similarly, a tender offer is an offer to buy a company’s stock or debt from existing stockholders and bondholders at a specified price and during a set period. The term "offer" is also used to refer to the package an employer or company will make to a potential employee, comprising of the full salary, healthcare and benefits package, and any other incentives such as a sign-on bonus or restricted stock units (RSUs).


   Other Types of Offers  

The term "offer" is a general one used to describe any kind of official bid or listing price in financial transactions, as discussed in detail above. Other kinds of offers include tender offers, conditional offers, open offers, subject offers, and entitlement offers.
What is an Offer In Compromise  

Offer in compromise is a program instituted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for taxpayers who cannot pay the taxes they owe, or for taxpayers for whom it would create a financial hardship to pay the taxes they owe. An offer in compromise allows taxpayers to settle their tax bill for less than the full amount owed.﻿﻿ 



When considering whether to allow a taxpayer to settle his bill with an offer in compromise, the IRS will look at the taxpayer's unique circumstances, including their income, ability to pay, expenses, and any assets the taxpayers owes.﻿﻿


   Understanding Offer In Compromise  

Offers in compromise are only available to eligible taxpayers. Taxpayers can find out if they are eligible for this program by consulting the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier questionnaire online. The questionnaire will ask whether you are in an open bankruptcy proceeding, have filled out all the tax returns required of you and whether you have filled out the required tax documents of someone who is self-employed or has employed others. You will then have to input your zip code, state, county, the total number of people in your household and your total tax debt.﻿﻿



The next step of the questionnaire concerns your assets. The Internal Revenue Service will require you to input your total bank balances, the value of any home equity you own, the value of any stocks, bonds or other financial assets you own, and other assets. Then it will ask you for your income from any jobs you have, or from interest or dividend income. After giving this information, you will be required to list your expenses, including rent, mortgage, and vehicle related expenses. If you don’t have vehicle-related expenses, you will be allowed to list expenses for public transportation. After filing this information, the IRS website will determine whether you qualify for an offer in compromise.﻿﻿ If you or your business are involved in an open bankruptcy proceeding, you are not eligible to apply for an offer.﻿﻿


   Alternatives to Offer in Compromise  

If it turns out that you are not eligible for an offer in compromise, you may still be eligible to pay your taxes through an installment plan. Under such circumstances, the IRS will look at your income, assets, and expenses and determine a monthly payment that you can make until you are current on your tax liability. To apply for an installment plan, you can use the Online Payment Agreement tool.﻿﻿ You can also use Form 9465, also known as the Installment Agreement Request.﻿﻿
What Is an Offering?  

An offering is the issue or sale of a security by a company. It is often used in reference to an initial public offering (IPO) when a company's stock is made available for purchase by the public, but it can also be used in the context of a bond issue.



An offering is also known as a securities offering, investment round, or funding round. A securities offering, whether an IPO or otherwise, represents a singular investment or funding round. Unlike other rounds (such as seed rounds or angel rounds), however, an offering involves selling stocks, bonds, or other securities to investors to generate capital.





Key Takeaways

An offering refers to when a company issues or sells a security.It is most commonly known as an initial public offering.IPOs can be risky because it's difficult to protect how the stock will perform on its initial day of trading.


   How an Offering Works  

Usually, a company will make an offering of stocks or bonds to the public in an attempt to raise capital to invest in expansion or growth. There are instances of companies offering stock or bonds because of liquidity issues (i.e., not enough cash to pay the bills), but investors should be wary of any offering of this type.



When a company initiates the IPO process, a very specific set of events occurs. First, an external IPO team is formed, consisting of an underwriter, lawyers, certified public accountants (CPAs), and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) experts. Next, information regarding the company is compiled, including financial performance and expected future operations. This becomes part of the company prospectus, which is circulated for review. 



Sometimes companies will issue what is known as a shelf prospectus, detailing the terms of multiple types of securities that it expects to offer over the next several years. The financial statements are then submitted for official audit, and the company files its prospectus with the SEC and sets a date for the offering.


  Why IPOs Are Risky  

IPOs, as well as any other type of stock or bond offering, can be a risky investment. For the individual investor, it is tough to predict what the stock will do on its initial day of trading, and in the near future, there is often little historical data to use to analyze the company. Also, most IPOs are for companies that are going through a transitory growth period, which means that they are subject to additional uncertainty regarding their future values.



IPO underwriters work closely with the issuing body to ensure an offering goes well. Their goal is to ensure that all regulatory requirements are satisfied, and they are also responsible for contacting a large network of investment organizations in order to research the offering and gauge interest to set the price. The amount of interest received helps an underwriter set the offering price. The underwriter also guarantees a specific number of shares will be sold at that initial price and will purchase any surplus.


   Secondary Offerings  

A secondary market offering is a large block of securities offered for public sale that have been previously issued to the public. The blocks being offered may have been held by large investors or institutions, and the proceeds of the sale go to those holders, not the issuing company. Also called secondary distribution, these types of offerings are very different than initial public offerings and don't require nearly the same amount of background work.


   Non-Initial Public Offerings vs. Initial Public Offerings  

Sometimes an established company will make offerings of stock to the public, but such an offering will not be the first offering of securities for sale by that company. Such an offering is known as a non-initial public offering or seasoned equity offering.
What Is an Offering Circular?  

An offering circular is a type of prospectus provided for a new security listing. It is delivered to individuals and brokerage houses who are interested in potentially purchasing the newly issued securities. It is often slightly abbreviated from the final, long-form prospectus, but is still required to contain specific information.



An offering circular should not be confused with a red herring or preliminary prospectus. The red herring is issued during the IPO process and is intended to generate interest in the new issue. It lacks many of the specifics regarding the new issue. The offering circular, on the other hand, is a more complete document and should be viewed before making a final decision about an investment.





Key Takeaways

An offering circular is a formal written offer to sell newly issued securities that provides essential information to prospective investors.It is a condensed prospectus that must nonetheless include accurate data related to the issuer's finances, risk factors, usage of the proceeds from the issue, and other pertinent information.The offering circular, while abbreviated, should not be confused with the more informal "red herring" document, which is intended as a marketing device rather than a regulatory document.


   Understanding Offering Circulars  

An offering circular allows investors to access information regarding a new issue. It provides them with very important information about the security such as financial information about the issuer, the objective of the fund or purpose of the funds being raised, and other terms of the security issuance. The offering circular is a legal document and is a requirement for many, but not all, new issues.



Offering circulars are required to contain certain pieces of information that are meant to be helpful to a prospective investor in deciding whether or not the investment is suitable for their interests. This information includes items such as the issuer of the security, the objective of the mutual fund or the purpose of the stock issue, the terms of the issue, and any additional information that could be helpful to a prospective buyer.


   Offering Circular vs. Red Herring  

It is important to distinguish it from the red herring, or preliminary prospectus, which lacks significant details about the new issue. The red herring is a promotional item passed out to potential investors early on in the IPO process to solicit indications of interest and does not include the crucial information that an investor should review before purchasing a security. However, this important information is included in the offering circular.



The term "red herring" is derived from the bold disclaimer in red on the cover page of the preliminary prospectus. The disclaimer states that a registration statement relating to the securities being offered has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. That is, the information contained in the prospectus is incomplete and may be changed. Thus, the securities may not be sold, and offers to buy may not be accepted before the registration statement becomes effective. The red herring does not state a price or issue size.
What Is an Offering Memorandum?  

An offering memorandum is a legal document that states the objectives, risks, and terms of an investment involved with a private placement. This document includes items such as a company's financial statements, management biographies, a detailed description of the business operations, and more.



An offering memorandum serves to provide buyers with information on the offering and to protect the sellers from the liability associated with selling unregistered securities.





Key Takeaways

An offering memorandum is a document issued to potential investors in a private placement deal.The offering memorandum spells out the private placement's objectives, risks, financials, and deal terms.An offering memorandum is essentially a thorough business plan intended for sophisticated investors to use in their due diligence.


   Understanding an Offering Memorandum  

An offering memorandum, also known as a private placement memorandum (PPM), is used by business owners of privately held companies to attract a specific group of outside investors. For these select investors, an offering memorandum is a way for them to understand the investment vehicle.



Offering memorandums are usually put together by an investment banker on behalf of the business owners. The banker uses the memorandum to conduct an auction among the specific group of investors to generate interest from qualified buyers.



An offering memorandum, while used in investment finance, is essentially a thorough business plan. In practice, these documents are a formality used to meet the requirements of securities regulators since most sophisticated investors perform their extensive due diligence. Offering memorandums are similar to prospectuses but are for private placements, while prospectuses are for publicly traded issues.


   Example of an Offering Memorandum  

In many cases, private equity companies want to increase their level of growth without taking on debt or going public. If, for example, a manufacturing company decides to expand the number of plants it owns, it can look to an offering memorandum as a way to finance the expansion. When this happens, the business first decides how much it wants to raise and at what price per share. In this example, the company needs $1 million to fund its growth at $30 per share.



The company begins by working with an investment bank or banker to draft an offering memorandum. This memorandum complies with securities laws outlined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). After compliance is met, the document is circulated among a specific number of interested parties, usually chosen by the company itself. This is in stark contrast to an initial public offering (IPO), where anyone in the public can purchase equity in the company.



The offering memorandum tells the potential investors all they need to know about the company: the terms of the investment, the nature of the business, and the potential risk of the investment. The document almost always includes a subscription agreement, which constitutes a legal contract between the issuing company and the investor.


   Offering Memorandum vs. Summary Prospectus  

While an offering memorandum is used in a private placement, a summary prospectus is the disclosure document provided to investors by mutual fund companies before or at the time of sale to the public.



This written document is an abridged version of the final prospectus that allows investors to see pertinent information regarding the fund's investment objectives and goals, sales charges and expense ratio, focused investment strategy, and data on the fund's management team. Relevant tax information and broker compensation are also included in the disclosure document. A summary prospectus provides investors the information they need from the final prospectus quickly and in plain English.
What Is an Offering Price?  

An offering price, generally, is the price at which something is offered for sale. In finance and investments, the offering price most often refers to the per-share value at which publicly-issued securities are made available for purchase by the investment bank during an initial public offering (IPO).



Underwriters analyze numerous factors when attempting to determine the ideal price for a security's offering. The underwriter's fee and any management fees applicable to the issue are typically included in the price.





Key Takeaways

An offering price refers to the price of a stock set by an investment bank during the IPO process.An offering price is based on the company's legitimate prospects and set at a level that will attract interest from the general investing public.After the IPO, the prices of shares are driven by market forces and will deviate from the offering price.While a nice pop after the offering makes for juicy headlines, there are many examples wherein shares failed to hold above the offering price after the IPO.


   Understanding Offering Prices  

The term offering price is most often used in reference to the process of issuing securities such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and other investments that are bought and sold in financial markets. For example, a stock quote includes a bid and offer. The bid is the current price that an investor can sell shares and the offer, which is also called the ask price, is how much it costs to buy shares.



In the context of an IPO, a lead manager of the underwriting sets the offering price. Ideally, an investment bank assesses the current and near-term values of the underlying company and sets an offering price that is fair to the company relative to capital. In order to attract sufficient buying interest when the offering becomes available to the public, the price must also be fair to investors in terms of potential value.



The public offering price (POP) is the price at which new issues of stock are offered to the public by an underwriter. Because the goal of an IPO is to raise capital for the issuer, underwriters must determine an offering price that will be attractive to investors. When underwriters determine the public offering price, they look at factors such as the strength of the company's financial statements, how profitable it is, public trends, growth rates, and investor confidence.



Setting the offering price may look more like Hollywood scriptwriting than high finance, especially when high-profile companies go public. The underwriting syndicate handling the IPO wants to set the offering price high enough that the company is satisfied with the amount of money raised, but just low enough that the opening price and the trading on the first few days of listing provide a nice IPO pop as the public finally gets a chance at shares.


   Offering Price and Opening Price  

The offering price was, and sometimes still is, referred to as the public offering price. This is a bit misleading as almost no individual investors are able to purchase an IPO at the offering price. The syndicate generally sells all the shares at the offering price to institutional and accredited investors.



The opening price is thus the first opportunity for the public to purchase shares and it is set purely by supply and demand, as buy and sell orders queue up for the first day of trading. Shares of an IPO can see some ups and downs from that point forward.


   Offerings and Individual Investors  

Individual investors should not be too upset about missing out on the offering price because many IPOs hit a patch of post-IPO blues where they can be snapped up below the offering price as initial market expectations and a company’s performance in reality finally collide. Indeed, there are many examples where an offering price is set much higher than any intrinsic value can justify.



The high valuation is often based on the perceived market appetite for shares in the sector or industry a company operates in, as opposed to the fundamentals of that particular company. In that case, the stock price in the market can fall and offer investors an opportunity to buy shares below the offering price.
What Is the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)?  

The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is a department of the U.S. Treasury that is charged with enforcing economic and trade sanctions imposed by the U.S. against countries and groups of individuals.



Sanctions have been imposed on those involved in foreign aggression, terrorist activities, and narcotics sales, among other acts.



The OFAC was created in 1950 when China entered the Korean War. President Harry Truman declared the event a national emergency and froze all Chinese and Korean assets that were subject to U.S. jurisdiction. OFAC's predecessor was the Office of Foreign Funds Control (FFC), established in 1940 in response to the Nazi invasion of Norway.





Key Takeaways

OFAC enforces U.S. trade and economic sanctions imposed on foreign nations or groups.The sanctions may be approved by Congress or initiated by emergency powers held by the president.Sanctions are intended to disrupt activity detrimental to the U.S. and its allies and force an end to them.


   How OFAC Works  

OFAC enforces sanctions that were imposed by the U.S. government based on its foreign policy and national security objectives.



According to this federal agency, those policies are aimed at foreign nations, terrorists, and narcotics traffickers who pose a threat to the national security or economy of the U.S. This includes entities that stockpile weapons of mass destruction.


  Who Authorizes OFAC?  

The agency’s actions are usually authorized by Congressional legislation. However, the president of the United States can use national emergency powers to perform certain actions such as freezing foreign assets that fall under U.S. jurisdiction.



In addition, OFAC imposes sanctions based on mandates by the United Nations. These are often carried out in cooperation with allied nations. The use of sanctions and other punitive trade policies are used to persuade a nation or group to change some behavior that is seen as detrimental to the international community.


  The Impact of Sanctions  

The policies are intended to disrupt the economy and everyday life of the nations or groups violating international norms. It is a way to pressure a country to conform to acceptable standards of behavior short of actual armed conflict.



For example, if a terrorist group is known to fund its activities through the sale of a commodity on the international market, sanctions might be introduced to disrupt this revenue source. OFAC’s efforts on this front could reduce the group’s ability to support the training of new recruits and the acquisition of weapons.






A threat of sanctions currently exists against any nation or entity that seeks to interfere with a U.S. election.


   Nations Under Sanctions  

If a belligerent country were to invade a neighboring country, trade and other assets could be frozen. OFAC would take charge of enforcing these sanctions, which might compel the belligerent country to halt its actions or at least agree to talks to end the conflict.



Programs administered by OFAC have included sanctions on Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Syria, and Russia. The agency has taken action against individuals, such as drug traffickers, by blocking assets owned by the criminals.



Another on the list is a 2018 executive order that threatens sanctions against any foreign nation that seeks to interfere with a U.S. election.



In 2023, the U.S. has a long list of countries under U.S. sanctions, from the Balkans to Zimbabwe. Other sanctions relate to any nation or group conducting specific criminal activities, such as cyber-terrorism and narcotics trafficking.


   Sanctions on Russia  

One of the most widely known sanctions is against Russia, ordered in response to the Russian incursion into Ukraine that began in 2014.



In early 2022, additional sanctions were imposed on Russia in response to Russia's military aggression against Ukraine. Russia moved troops into the two separatist regions of eastern Ukraine and engaged in military operations throughout the country.



U.S. President Joe Biden responded, on Feb. 22, 2022, by announcing sanctions that initially blocked two state-owned Russian financial institutions: Vnesheconombank and Promsvyazbank and their subsidiaries, which provide financing to the Russian military. However, on Feb. 24, 2022, sanctions were expanded in scope to include other Russian financial institutions, including the two largest banks—Sberbank and VTB Bank—blocking access to the U.S. financial system.



Sanctions were imposed prohibiting U.S. companies and individuals from buying both new and existing Russian sovereign debt in the secondary market. Russian elites and their families have been financially targeted, while export controls have been established to block Russia's importing of technological goods.
What Is the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency?  

The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) is a federal agency that oversees the execution of laws relating to national banks. Specifically, it charters, regulates, and supervises national banks, federally chartered savings associations, and federal branches and agencies of foreign banks in the U.S. The Comptroller of the Currency, appointed by the President and approved by the Senate, heads the OCC.





Key Takeaways

The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) charters regulates, and supervises both national and foreign banks operating in the U.S.Appointed by the president, the OCC is funded by the banks themselves that must pay examination and processing fees.The OCC has quite a bit of power, including the ability to deny applications for new bank branches, remove bank directors, and even take supervisory actions against the banks.


   How the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) Works  

Founded through the National Currency Act of 1863, the OCC monitors banks to guarantee they operate safely and meet all requirements. The OCC oversees several areas including capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, sensitivity to market risk, information technology, compliance, and community reinvestment.



The OCC is an independent bureau within the Department of Treasury. Its mission statement verifies it is to "ensure that national banks and federal savings associations operate in a safe and sound manner, provide fair access to financial services, treat customers fairly, and comply with applicable laws and regulations." 



Congress does not fund the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Instead, funding is from national banks and federal savings associations, who pay for examinations and processing of their corporate applications. The OCC also receives revenue from its investment income, which is primarily from U.S. Treasury securities. 



The agency is headed by the Senate-confirmed, comptroller for a five-year term. The comptroller also serves as director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and NeighborWorks America.


   OCC Structure  

The OCC has four district offices, field and satellite offices nationwide, and an examining office in London. The staff of bank examiners conducts on-site reviews of national banks and federal savings associations or thrifts. They provide supervision by analyzing the institution's loan and investment portfolios, funds management, capital, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity to market risk. Examiners also review internal controls and compliance with applicable regulations and laws and evaluate management's ability to identify and control risk.


   Power of the OCC  

The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has the power to approve or deny applications for new charters, branches, capital, and other changes in the banking structure. They may take supervisory actions against banks under its jurisdiction for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Further, the agency has the authority to remove officers and directors. Other responsibilities include the power to negotiate agreements to change a bank's practices, impose monetary penalties, and issue cease and desist orders.



Following the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of the Comptroller assumed the responsibility for the ongoing examination, supervision, and regulation of federal savings associations. During the same month, the OCC issued a final rule implementing several provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including changes to facilitate the transfer of functions from the Office of Thrift Supervision.
What Is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI)?  

The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) is an independent agency of the Government of Canada that is responsible for the supervision and regulation of banks, insurance companies, and trust and loan companies. The agency also regulates private pension plans, which are subject to federal oversight.



The agency's stated goals are to protect depositors, policyholders, the financial institution (FI), creditors, and pension plan members while allowing financial institutions to compete and take reasonable risks.





Key Takeaways

OSFI is an independent arm of the Government of Canada that supervises and regulates financial institutions and pension plans.OSFI's goals are to protect depositors, policyholders, the financial institution (FI), creditors, and pension plan members.OSFI guarantees bank deposits through the Canadian Deposit Insurance Corporation (CDIC).


   Understanding the OSFI  

The OSFI's mission is to maintain consumer confidence in the financial markets.



Among its functions is to guarantee deposits through the Canadian Deposit Insurance Corporation (CDIC). It also reviews the pension plans of businesses to ensure that they are adequately funded.



Overall, the OSFI is bound to advance and administer a regulatory framework that promotes the management of risk. The OSFI is tasked with monitoring and evaluating system-wide or sectoral issues that may negatively impact financial institutions.


  OSFI History  

The Office was founded on July 2, 1987, by combining the Department of Insurance and the Office of the Inspector General of Banks. A law passed in 1996 further defined the role of the Office, indicating that its primary responsibilities are to minimize losses to individuals and to maintain public confidence in the Canadian financial system.



OSFI reports to the Canadian Minister of Finance.



Preventing banks from failing is not part of the agency's directive. However, the Office does support sound business practices, which helps reduce the likelihood that a bank will fail.


  OSFI's Roles  

OSFI supervises institutions and pension plans to make sure they are in good financial health. The agency ensures that the plans meet minimum funding requirements and are abiding by their governing laws and supervisory requirements.



OSFI is expected to provide quick guidance to financial institutions and pension plans if they are found to have financial deficiencies. The office may mandate that management, boards, or plan administrators take action to fix identified problems.



Operating as an independent unit within the OSFI is the Office of the Chief Actuary. This office provides a series of actuarial valuation and advisory services to the Government of Canada.


  OSFI Leadership  

The current Superintendent is Peter Routledge, appointed June 29, 2021, for a seven-year term. His role is to represent Canada on the Financial Stability Board Steering Committee and the Standing Committee on Supervisory and Regulatory Cooperation.



He also serves on the Council of Governors of the Canadian Public Accountability Board and the board of directors of the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation.


  OSFI Announcements  

The OSFI also acts as an information hub for Canadian financial institutions. They periodically post important news and guidelines for the member banks.



As an example, in January 2019, they issued an advisory on the increasing threats to cybersecurity. OSFI warned that these attacks may disrupt interconnected and global financial systems and businesses.
DEFINITION of the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS)  

The Office of Thrift Supervision was a bureau of the U.S. Treasury Department that was responsible for issuing and enforcing regulations governing the nation's savings and loan industry. In 2011, the OTS was merged with other agencies including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).


   Understanding the OTS  

This bureau was responsible for ensuring the safety and soundness of deposits in thrift banks. It did this by auditing and inspecting the banks to see if government regulations and policies were being adhered to.


   How the OTS Worked  

The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), the successor to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, was established by Congress in 1989 as the primary federal regulator of all federal and state-chartered savings institutions across the nation that belong to the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF). OTS issued federal charters for savings and loan associations and savings banks. This Bureau adopted and enforced regulations to ensure that both federal and state-chartered thrift institutions operated in a safe and sound manner, according to the Treasury Department.



The OTS was formed following the savings and loan (S&L) crisis, which began under the volatile interest rate climate of the 1970s when vast numbers of depositors withdrew their money from S&L institutions and deposited them in money market funds. To remain in business, S&Ls began engaging in high-risk activities to cover losses, such as commercial real estate lending and investments in junk bonds. Depositors in S&Ls continued to funnel money into these risky endeavors because their deposits were insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC).



Widespread corruption and other factors led to the insolvency of the FSLIC, the $124 billion bailout of junk bond investments, and the liquidation of more than 700 S&Ls by the Resolution Trust Corporation.



OTS began enforcing stricter regulations as it shut down hundreds of troubled institutions. The number of thrift banks has dwindled over the years, from nearly 4,000 in the 1980s to less than 1,000 in 2018. 



Thrifts are savings and loans associations. Thrifts also refer to credit unions and mutual savings banks that provide a variety of saving and loans services. Thrifts differ from commercial banks in that they can borrow money from the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which allows them to pay members higher interest.



Due to their charter, thrifts are mandated to focus on housing-related assets and must be members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
What Is an Official Settlement Account?  

An official settlement account is a special type of account used in international balance of payments (BoP) accounting to keep track of central banks' reserve asset transactions with one other. The official settlement account keeps track of transactions involving gold, foreign exchange reserves, bank deposits and special drawing rights (SDRs).



Essentially, this type of account keeps track of transactions related to international reserves and central bank assets that are transferred among nations to settle either a balance of payment deficit or surplus.





Key Takeaways

An official settlement account is used to track and account for international balance of payments between central banks.It is used to settle transfers of assets and global monetary reserves that circulate among nations' central banks.Countries look to these accounts to monitor capital outflows and inflows to and from other countries.


   Understanding Official Settlement Accounts  

Official settlement accounts are used in international balance of payments accounting, and represent the current account and the capital account of central banks. The current account keeps a record of a country's imports and exports of goods, services, income and transfers, and whether the country is a net creditor or net debtor. The capital account records the change in foreign and domestic investments, government borrowing and private sector borrowing. When there is either a balance of payments deficit or surplus, inflows of reserve assets or outflows of reserve assets bring the ledger back into balance. This is recorded in the official settlement account.



The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) is an international financial institution that aims to promote global monetary and financial stability and maintains oversight of official settlement accounts. The BIS is sometimes called the "central bank for central banks" because it provides banking services to institutions such as the European Central Bank and Federal Reserve.


   Monitoring an Official Settlement Account  

Nations keep an eye on the official settlement account to gauge their economic health in the global economy. If there are continual outflows of reserve assets for a country, it means that its competitiveness in producing exported goods is relatively weak, or it's business environment is not as attractive as that offered by other countries for direct foreign investment.



A nation running chronic current account deficits may then formulate policy prescriptions to improve the quality of its goods for export or seek exchange rate adjustments to make their exports more price competitive. It also may try to create better conditions for international companies looking to build new factories abroad. Tax incentives, infrastructure projects, and workforce training programs could be promoted by a country to address unwanted outflows recorded in its official settlement account.
What is an Official Strike?  

An official strike is a work stoppage by union members that is endorsed by the union and that follows the legal requirements for striking, such as being voted on by a majority of union members. Workers engaging in official strikes have better protections against being fired as opposed to an unofficial strike. An official strike is usually undertaken by employees as a last resort in response to grievances. An official strike may also be called an official industrial action, a strike action or a strike.





Key Takeaways

An official strike is one that complies with the required legal processes for declaring and carrying out a strike or other work stoppage.Official strikes are considered protected concerted action under the National Labor Relations Act, but whether any particular strike counts as official or not can depend on rulings by the National Labor Relations Board. Workers engaged in an official strike enjoy better legal protections against dismissal or retaliation by their employer.


   Understanding an Official Strike  

In the U.S. industrial labor relations are governed by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) under the National Labor Relations Act and other relevant laws. Ultimately, the NLRB decides whether a strike complies with the requirements to be considered an official strike. These laws grant workers the right to engage in protected concerted activity, including strikes, provided they follow the required legal processes laid out in the law and enforced by the NLRB. An official strike is one that follows these processes and thus is legally recognized and protected under the law by the NLRB. Workers who engage in an official strike can enjoy protection from retaliation by their employer, such as being disciplined or dismissed.﻿﻿ 



Strikes are undertaken as part of the collective bargaining process that goes on between labor unions and employers in order to determine wages, benefits, working conditions, and in the case of public servants, legislation governing said services. Generally, union members will vote to go on strike when other bargaining tactics have failed. When workers decide to strike without the approval of a union, it is called a wildcat strike. A wildcat strike may be undertaken when a union refuses to endorse a strike action, or because the striking workers do not have a union; such a strike may not offer workers the same protections as an official strike undertaken with formal union authorization.



Typically, striking workers refuse to go to work and may instead form a picket line outside the place of work in order to hinder the employer’s normal business or stop strikebreakers from crossing the picket line to go to work. Sometimes, workers conduct a strike by occupying the workplace, but refusing to complete their normal tasks and also refusing to leave the premises; such a strike is known as a sit-down strike. Where employees are public servants, picketing may take place, not at the workplace, but where lawmakers meet, such as in the West Virginia public school teachers’ strike of 2018.


   Historical Example  

A famous official strike in the United States was the 1994 Major League Baseball strike, which canceled the end of the regular season and the entire postseason.﻿﻿ Some of the replacement players who played during 1995 spring training, when the strike had not yet ended, remained in the major leagues, but were not allowed union membership. One reason this is important is union players receive a certain percentage of Major League Baseball revenues, because MLB licenses players' names and images for items like jerseys and baseball cards. Nonunion members do not receive this benefit.
What Is an Offline Debit Card?  

An offline debit card is a type of automated payment card, similar to a traditional (online) debit card, that allows a cardholder to pay for goods and services directly from their bank account. As it is not "online," there is a delay before the incurred cost is debited from the account and it does not require a PIN for use. It is similar to writing a check. These types of cards are not common in the U.S. but are available in some foreign countries. Offline debit cards may also be known as “check cards.”





Key Takeaways

An offline debit card is not connected to an online system when used. Funds are therefore withdrawn from an account 24 to 72 hours later.An offline debit card does not require a PIN for use, only a signature, and can be compared to writing a check.Offline debit cards are primarily used for payments and cannot be used for withdrawing or depositing funds at an ATM.Card network providers, such as Visa and Mastercard, sponsor offline debit cards.The same overdraft fees and returned payment fees of a debit card apply to offline debit cards.


   How an Offline Debit Card Works  

Offline debit cards work in a similar way as traditional debit cards but can also be compared to the process of writing a check. An offline debit card transaction creates a debit against the cardholder's bank account with delayed processing and only requires a signature rather than a PIN number.



Offline debit cards are issued by banks in partnership with a card network processing service provider such as Visa or Mastercard. These cards are associated with a customer’s bank account and are used for payments and are not available for making withdrawals or deposits from an ATM.


   Offline Debit Card Transactions  

Offline debit cards will often have a maximum daily limit that is lower than a standard debit card. If this is not the case, the maximum amount is based on the funds held in the underlying bank account. Because this debit card is "offline," the bank account is not accessed directly, meaning there's a delay of 24 to 72 hours before the amount of a purchase is debited from the account.



Users of offline debit card transactions must still be cautious of returned payment fees and overdrafts. While the processing time and services differ for offline debit cards in comparison to traditional debit cards, the repercussions for payments with insufficient funds are still the same. Account holders can expect an overdraft fee for each transaction that is made with insufficient funds using an offline debit card. In some cases, vendors who offer preliminary acceptance of an offline debit card payment that is not fully authorized at settlement may also incur a returned payment fee.



Offline debit card transactions do pose a risk for vendors as they are not certain the transaction will be fully completed until the processing is finished and accepted, days later. The vendor is susceptible to certain risks as the customer can charge the amount but perhaps the card is not valid or does not have the funds or the transaction is denied for some reason.
What is an Offset?  

An offset involves assuming an opposite position in relation to an original opening position in the securities markets. For example, if you are long 100 shares of XYZ, selling 100 shares of XYZ would be the offsetting position. An offsetting position can also be generated through hedging instruments, such as futures or options.



In the derivatives markets, to offset a futures position a trader enters an equivalent but opposite transaction that eliminates the delivery obligation of the physical underlying. The goal of offsetting is to reduce an investor's net position in an investment to zero so that no further gains or losses are experienced from that position.



In business, an offset can refer to the case where losses generated by one business unit are made up for by gains in another. Similarly, firms may also use the term in reference to enterprise risk management (ERM), where risks exposed in one business unit are offset by opposite risks in another. For instance, one unit may have risk exposure to a declining Swiss franc, while another may benefit from a declining franc.


   Basics of an Offset  

Offsetting can be used in a variety of transactions to remove or limit liabilities. In accounting, an entry can be offset by an equal but opposite entry that nullifies the original entry. In banking, the right to offset provides financial institutions with the ability to cease debtor assets in the case of delinquency or the ability to request a garnishment to recoup funds owed. For investors involved in a futures contract, an offsetting position eliminates the need to receive a physical delivery of the underlying asset or commodity by selling the associated goods to another party.



Businesses may choose to offset losses in one business area by reallocating the gains from another. This allows the profitability of one activity to support the other activity. If a business is successful in the smartphone market and decides it wants to produce a tablet as a new product line, gains experienced through the smartphone sales may help offset any losses associated with expanding into a new arena.



In 2016, BlackBerry Ltd. experienced significant losses in its mobility solutions and service access fees. The associated declines were offset by gains in the areas of software and other service offerings, lessening the overall impact to BlackBerry's bottom line.﻿﻿


   Offsetting in Derivatives Contracts  

Investors offset futures contracts and other investment positions to remove themselves from any associated liabilities. Almost all futures positions are offset before the terms of the futures contract are realized. Even though most positions are offset near the delivery term, the benefits of the futures contract as a hedging mechanism are still realized.



The purpose of offsetting a futures contract on a commodity, for most investors, is to avoid having to physically receive the goods associated with the contract. A futures contract is an agreement to purchase a particular commodity at a specific price on a future date. If a contract is held until the agreed-upon date, the investor could become responsible for accepting the physical delivery of the commodity in question.



In options markets, traders often look to offset certain risk exposures, sometimes referred to as their "Greeks." For instance, if an options book is exposed to declines in implied volatility (long vega), a trader may sell related options in order to offset that exposure. Likewise, if an options position is exposed to directional risk, a trader may buy or sell the underlying security to become delta neutral. Dynamic hedging (or delta-gamma hedging) is a strategy employed by derivatives traders to maintain offsetting positions throughout their books on a regular basis.





Key Takeaways

In an offsetting position, a trader takes an equivalent but opposite position to reduce the net position to zero. The purpose of taking an offsetting position is to limit or eliminate liabilities.Offsetting is common as a strategy across equities and derivatives contracts.


   Example of Offsetting Positions  

If the initial investment was a purchase, a sale is made to neutralize the position; to offset an initial sale, a purchase is made to neutralize the position.



With futures related to stocks, investors may use hedging to assume an opposing position to manage the risk associated with the futures contract. For example, if you wanted to offset a long position in a stock, you could short sell an identical number of shares.
What Is an Offset Mortgage?  

An offset mortgage is a type of home loan that involves blending a traditional mortgage with one or more deposit accounts held by the same financial institution. The savings balance maintained in the deposit account may then be used to offset the mortgage balance, lowering interest payments due.



Offset mortgages are standard in many nations, such as the U.K., but are currently not eligible for use in the U.S. due to tax laws. The closest alternative to an offset mortgage in the U.S. would be an all-in-one mortgage.





Key Takeaways

An offset mortgage involves combining aspects of a traditional mortgage with one or more deposit accounts at the same financial institution. The funds in the deposit accounts are then used to offset the mortgage balance, lowering monthly payments.Offset mortgages are standard in many nations but U.S. tax laws do not currently allow them.An offset mortgage is an attractive option for paying back a mortgage loan primarily because the borrower can make small payments to pay down the principal instead of the interest.


   Understanding Offset Mortgages  

An offset mortgage is a desirable option for diligent savers. The linked savings account will not earn interest during the life of the loan. However, most savings accounts are typically low-earning accounts that pay only 1% to 3% per year, or less.



The mortgage interest rate is usually substantially higher than the rate paid on the savings account, so any savings there is a net benefit to the borrower. Also, the foregone interest on the savings account becomes non-taxable payments toward the mortgage. 






The savings account is typically a non-interest bearing account, which allows the bank to earn a positive return on any balances held in the account. 



The calculation of interest is on the remaining balance of the note, less the aggregate amount of savings in one or more deposit accounts. The borrower still has access to their savings account. However, the next mortgage payment will be calculated on a higher principal balance if the borrower withdraws funds from the account. 



More than one savings account may link to the offset mortgage account, and family members of the borrower can link their savings accounts to the mortgage account to reduce the amount of the principal, and thus, the interest on the remaining balance.


   Example of an Offset Mortgage  

The Smith family has an offset mortgage. The principal is $225,000 with a 5% interest rate, and the family has $15,000 held in savings with the same lender with no withdrawals during the last month. Calculation of the next interest payment on an offset loan would be based on the $210,000 balance, which reflects the loan principal less the savings account balance: ($225,000 – $15,000 = $210,000).


   Benefits of an Offset Mortgage  

An offset mortgage is an attractive option for paying back a mortgage loan primarily because the borrower can make small payments to pay down the principal instead of the interest. As more funds apply toward the principal, the loan balance reduces more rapidly.



At the same time, because these payments are to the borrower’s own savings account, the borrower still has the use of their money if needed. This flexibility gives the borrower all the benefits of paying back the mortgage quickly, but also the benefits of saving money in an investment account.
What Is an Offsetting Transaction?  

An offsetting transaction cancels out the effects of another transaction. Offsetting transactions can occur in any market, but typically offsetting transactions refer to the options, futures, and exotic instrument markets. An offsetting transaction can mean closing a transaction or taking another position in the opposite direction to cancel the effects of the first.





Key Takeaways

An offsetting transaction is an activity that cancels out the risks and benefits of another position or transaction.Offsetting can mean closing a position, if possible, but can also mean taking the opposite position in the same (or as close as possible) instrument.


   Understanding Offsetting Transactions  

In trading, an offsetting transaction is an activity that, in theory, exactly cancels the risks and benefits of another instrument in a portfolio. Offsetting transactions are risk management tools that allow investors and other entities to mitigate the potentially detrimental effects that could arise if they cannot simply cancel the original transaction. Being unable to close a position frequently happens with options and other more complex financial trading instruments.



With an offsetting transaction, a trader can close out a trade without having to acquire consent from the other parties involved. While the original trade still exists, there is no longer an effect on the trader's account from market moves and other events.



Since options, and most other financial instruments, are fungible, it does not matter which specific instrument is bought or sold to offset a position, as long as they all have the same issuer, strike, and maturity features. For bonds, as long as the issuer, insurance, coupon, call features, and maturity are the same, the specific bond that is bought or sold to offset a prior transaction does not matter. What is important is that the trader, by offsetting their position, no longer has a financial interest in that instrument.


   Offsetting Complex Transactions  

The process of neutralizing a position becomes more involved in exotic markets, such as with swaps. With these specialized, over-the-counter (OTC) transactions, there is no ready liquidity to merely buy or sell the equivalent but opposite instrument. To offset a position here, the trader must create a similar swap with another party. Counterparty risk may not be the same, although all parties may agree to the same terms and conditions as the original swap.



There are other imperfect offsetting transactions, including holding short and long positions in spot and futures markets.


   Example of an Offsetting Transaction in the Options Market  

Assume an investor writes a call option on 100 shares (one contract) with a strike price of $205 on Apple Inc. (AAPL), with a September expiration.



To offset this transaction before the September expiry, the investor would need to buy an APPL 205 strike with a September expiry call option. This would precisely cancel the exposure to the original call option. What they do not need to do is repurchase the options position from the exact person who bought it from them in the first place.



The trade no longer exists in the investor's account because they have offset it. Yet the person who originally bought the contract from them may still hold it in their account. Therefore, the contract may still exist, but only in one of the accounts.
What Is Offshore?  

The term offshore refers to a location outside of one's home country. The term is commonly used in the banking and financial sectors to describe areas where regulations are different from the home country.



Offshore locations are generally island nations, where entities set up corporations, investments, and deposits. Companies and individuals (typically those with a high net worth) may move offshore for more favorable conditions, including tax avoidance, relaxed regulations, or asset protection. Although offshore institutions can also be used for illicit purposes, they aren't considered illegal.





Key Takeaways

Offshore refers to any (business) activity that takes place outside an entity's home base. The term may be used to describe foreign banks, corporations, investments, and deposits. A company may legitimately move offshore for the purpose of tax avoidance or to enjoy relaxed regulations.Offshore financial institutions can also be used for illicit purposes such as money laundering and tax evasion.Increased pressure is leading to more reporting of foreign accounts to international tax authorities. 







Offshore 


   Understanding Offshore  

Offshore can refer to a variety of foreign-based entities, accounts, or other financial services. In order to qualify as offshore, the activity taking place must be based in a country other than the company or investor’s home nation. As such, while the home base for a person or company may be in one country, the business activity takes place in another. Put simply, going offshore provides services to non-residents.



In the simplest sense, offshore can mean any location abroad; any country, territory, or jurisdiction; however, the term has become widely synonymous with specific locations that have become popular for offshore business activity, notably island nations like the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, the Channel Islands, and the Bahamas. Other centers in landlocked countries, including Switzerland, Ireland, and Belize, also qualify as popular offshore financial centers (OFCs).



The level of regulatory standards and transparency differs widely among OFCs. But they generally offer:



Favorable tax laws, which is why they're commonly referred to as tax havens
Reduced risk and greater growth potential
Significant cost savings for businesses
Protection of assets, especially during times of instability
Loose regulations
Confidentiality



Going offshore is common for companies and high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) for the reasons mentioned above. They may also choose to bank and hold investments in a specific country offshore if they travel there frequently. Supporters of OFCs argue that they improve the flow of capital and facilitate international business transactions.



However, critics suggest that offshoring helps hide tax liabilities or ill-gotten gains from authorities, even though most countries require that foreign holdings be reported. Going offshore has also become a way for more illicit activities, including fraud, money laundering, and tax evasion. As such, there are increasing calls for OFCs to become more transparent with global tax authorities.


   Offshoring and Tax Avoidance  

Offshoring is perfectly legal because it provides entities with a great deal of privacy and confidentiality; however, authorities are concerned that OFCs are being used to avoid paying taxes. As such, there is increased pressure on these countries to report foreign holdings to global tax authorities.



For instance, the Swiss are known for their strict privacy laws. At one point, Swiss banks didn’t even have names attached to bank accounts; however, Switzerland agreed to turn over information to foreign governments on their account holders, effectively ending tax evasion.



According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 100 countries automatically shared information about offshore accounts with tax authorities in 2019. This entailed the disclosure of 84 million accounts worth more than €10 trillion.


   Types of Offshoring  

There are several types of offshoring: business, investing, and banking.


  Offshoring Business  

Offshoring is often referred to as outsourcing when it comes to business activity. This is the act of establishing certain business functions, such as manufacturing or call centers, in a nation other than where the company is headquartered.



This is often done to take advantage of more favorable conditions in a foreign country, such as lower wage requirements or looser regulations, and can result in significant cost savings for the business. Companies with significant sales overseas, such as Apple and Microsoft, may take the opportunity to keep related profits in offshore accounts in countries with lower tax burdens.


  Offshore Investing  

Offshore investing can involve any situation in which the offshore investors reside outside the nation in which they invest. This practice is mostly used by high-net-worth investors, as operating offshore accounts can be particularly high. It often requires opening accounts in the nation in which the investor wishes to invest. Some of the advantages of holding offshore accounts include tax benefits, asset protection, and privacy.



Offshore investment accounts are generally opened in the name of a corporation, such as a holding company or a limited liability company (LLC) rather than an individual. This opens up investments to more favorable tax treatment.



The primary downsides to offshore investing are the high costs and the increased regulatory scrutiny worldwide that offshore jurisdictions and accounts face. This makes offshore investing beyond the means of most investors. Offshore investors may also be scrutinized by regulators and tax authorities to make sure taxes are paid.


  Offshore Banking  

Offshore banking involves securing assets in financial institutions in foreign countries, which may be limited by the laws of the customer’s home nation—much like offshore investing. Think of the famed Swiss bank account— that James Bond-like account that puts rich people’s money out of reach of their own country’s government.



People and companies can use offshore accounts to avoid the unfavorable circumstances associated with keeping money in a bank in their home nation. Most entities do this to avoid tax obligations. Holding offshore bank accounts also makes it more difficult for them to be seized by authorities.



For those who work internationally, the ability to save and use funds in a foreign currency for international dealings can be a benefit. This often provides a simpler way to access funds in the needed currency without the need to account for rapidly changing exchange rates.






Offshore jurisdictions, such as the Bahamas, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, and the Isle of Man, are popular and known to offer fairly secure investment opportunities.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Offshore Investing  
  Advantages  

Taking your investments abroad to an OFC may also help you diversify your portfolio. By going international and investing in different asset classes and currencies, you can help cut down the risk to your overall investments.



You're very apt to get favorable tax treatment on your investments, depending on where you hold your assets. For instance, the Cayman Islands doesn't impose taxes on income, dividends, or capital gains, which means you get to keep more of the money you earn.



Your assets get a certain level of protection because many offshore centers are located in places with sound economic and political systems. And because they're in foreign lands, it's harder for creditors to seize your assets.


  Disadvantages  

Holding accounts offshore subjects you to more scrutiny. That's because it's often seen as a way for people to avoid paying taxes. If you don't report your holdings to your tax authority, such as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), you could be in serious trouble.



As mentioned above, even though some jurisdictions provide complete confidentiality to account holders, an increasing number of countries are becoming more transparent with tax authorities. This means you could be on the hook if you don't report your holdings.



You should do your due diligence if you're going to invest abroad—the same way you would if you're doing business with someone at home. Make sure you choose a reputable broker or investment professional to ensure that your money is handled properly. Failure to do so could put your investments at risk.





Pros

Portfolio diversification
Favorable tax treatment
Asset protection



Cons

More scrutiny
Increased transparency from offshore jurisdictions
Risk of working with the wrong professional







What Does It Mean to Work Offshore?
Working offshore means that you have a job outside your home country. You may get paid in the local currency and are usually subject to local labor laws. For instance, you are considered to be working offshore if your company opens an office in another country and moves you to that location.




What Is Onshore and Offshore?
Onshore means that business activity, whether that's running a company or holding assets and investments, takes place in your home country. Going offshore, on the other hand, means these activities take place in another country, location, or jurisdiction.




Are Offshore Accounts Legal?
Offshore accounts are perfectly legal, as long as they are not used for illicit purposes. But keep in mind, though, that hiding your offshore assets is illegal. This means you must report any and all offshore accounts you hold to your country's taxing authority.




What Is Meant by Offshore Banking?
Offshore banking describes a relationship that a company or individual has with a financial institution outside the country of their residence. This requires opening a bank account, and making deposits, withdrawals, and transfers from that account—the exact same way you would with a bank account at home.




What Is Offshore Trading?
Offshore trading involves opening and maintaining a brokerage or trading account with an offshore investment firm. These accounts are generally opened in the name of a holding company rather than an individual. Trading this way provides investors with favorable tax treatment, which puts more money back into their pockets.


   The Bottom Line  

Going offshore is usually an option meant only for corporations or people with a high net worth. Those who do go offshore do business, open bank accounts, or hold investments anywhere overseas.



Although going offshore isn't illegal, it does put the entity up to more scrutiny. That's because people often use it as a way to avoid paying taxes.



However, with global tax authorities putting pressure on these financial centers to be more transparent, the landscape for offshore activities may change in the future.
What Is an Offshore Banking Unit (OBU)?  

An offshore banking unit (OBU) is a bank shell branch, located in another international financial center. For instance, an offshore banking unit could be a London-based bank with a branch located in Delhi. Offshore banking units make loans in the Eurocurrency market when they accept deposits from foreign banks and other OBUs. Eurocurrency simply refers to money held in banks located outside of the country which issues the currency.



Local monetary authorities and governments do not restrict OBUs' activities; however, they are not allowed to accept domestic deposits or make loans to residents of the country, in which they are physically situated. Overall OBUs can enjoy significantly more flexibility regarding national regulations.





Key Takeaways

Offshore banking units (OBUs) refer to bank branches located outside of its home country, and handling transactions made in foreign currency (known generically as "eurocurrency").OBUs make it easier for individuals and businesses to bank internationally and establish offshore accounts.Individuals may choose to keep their money offshore if there is instability in their own country, and they fear losing their investments.Offshore bank accounts must be declared to the holder's home country for tax reasons; however, some countries allow foreigners to earn capital gains tax-free.


   Understanding Offshore Banking Units  

OBUs have proliferated across the globe since the 1970s. They are found throughout Europe, as well as in the Middle East, Asia, and the Caribbean. U.S. OBUs are concentrated in the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong, Panama, and Singapore.



In some cases, offshore banking units may be branches of resident and/or nonresident banks; while in other cases an OBU may be an independent establishment. In the first case, the OBU is within the direct control of a parent company; in the second, even though an OBU may take the name of the parent company, the entity’s management and accounts are separate.



Some investors may, at times, consider moving money into OBUs to avoid taxation and/or retain privacy. More specifically, tax exemptions on withholding tax and other relief packages on activities, such as offshore borrowing, are occasionally available.



In some cases, it is possible to obtain better interest rates from OBUs. Offshore banking units also often do not have currency restrictions. This enables them to make loans and payments in multiple currencies, often opening more flexible international trade options.


   How Offshore Banking Units Work  

There are several steps for a client to get involved in depositing and transacting with an offshore banking unit. Broadly speaking, the offshore banking unit process starts based on an investor's specific needs. Investors choose an offshore jurisdiction based on factors such as its legal framework, tax advantages, political stability, and banking regulations.



After selecting an offshore jurisdiction, investors can open an account with an offshore banking unit, which can be in various forms such as personal, corporate, investment, or trust accounts. They must complete necessary documentation and undergo a due diligence process, including identification documents, proof of address, and the source of funds.



Similar to a domestic bank, the investor must decide on the range of services needed as well. Offshore banking units offer a wide range of banking services including deposit accounts, international wire transfers, foreign currency exchange, investment products, loans, credit cards, and wealth management services.



In addition to banking services, offshore banking units can assist investors in optimizing their tax liabilities through legal means, such as favorable tax regimes. They may also offer access to a broader range of investment opportunities, including international stocks, bonds, mutual funds, commodities, and alternative investments.



These offshore banking units may also provide legal guidance to ensure compliance with both the offshore jurisdiction's laws and their home country's laws to avoid legal or regulatory issues.






The Federal Reserve has prescribed guidance outlining general policies and procedures to be used when examining U.S. branches of foreign banking organizations.


   Offshore Banking Unit Regulation  

Offshore jurisdictions typically have a dedicated regulatory body or financial authority responsible for overseeing the financial sector. These regulatory bodies include offshore banking units. OBUs must obtain proper licensing and authorization from the regulatory body, meeting specific requirements such as capital adequacy, operational infrastructure, and adherence to anti-money laundering (AML) and know-your-customer (KYC) regulations.



The regulatory framework aims to maintain the integrity of the financial system, protect customers, and prevent illicit activities. Therefore, regulatory authorities supervise OBUs to ensure compliance including ongoing monitoring, periodic audits, and examinations of operations. OBUs are required to submit periodic reports and financial statements to the regulatory authority.



Offshore jurisdictions also often engage in international cooperation and information exchange agreements to combat financial crimes and ensure regulatory compliance. This includes sharing information with foreign regulatory bodies, participating in international initiatives against tax evasion, and adhering to global standards like the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA).


   Offshore Banking Units vs. Domestic Banking Locations  

There are some key distinctions between offshore banking units and "normal" bank branches. The obvious difference is physical location: OBUs are located in offshore financial centers or jurisdictions with specific legal and regulatory frameworks designed to attract international clients, while common bank branches are typically located within a country's domestic territory and subject to the regulations of that jurisdiction.



Another major difference is the underlying regulatory regimes. OBUs are known for their favorable tax structures, confidentiality laws, and business-friendly environments. Meanwhile, domestic bank branches operate within the regulatory framework of the country in which they are located and are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to domestic banking institutions. In many cases, since these laws are prevalent across the country, they are less incentivizing for those seeking specific shelter features.



The clientele base is often very different between the two as well. Offshore banking units typically serve international clients including individuals and corporations. They often cater to clients who want to optimize their tax liabilities, protect their assets, or access international investment opportunities.



On the other hand, normal bank branches primarily serve local customers and offer standard banking services to individuals, small businesses, and corporate clients within the country where the branch is located.


   History of Offshore Banking Units  

The euro market allowed the first application of an offshore banking unit. Shortly afterward Singapore, Hong Kong, India, and other nations followed suit as the option allowed them to become more viable financial centers. While it took Australia longer to join, given less favorable tax policies, in 1990, the nation established more supportive legislation.



In the United States, the International Banking Facility (IBF) acts as an in-house shell branch. Its function serves to make loans to foreign customers. As with other OBUs, IBF deposits are limited to non-U.S applicants.


  Offshore Banking Units and European Union  

Offshore banking units have been impacted by recent developments in Europe. The Savings Tax Directive, applied in 2005, aimed to combat cross-border tax evasion in the EU. However, it has undergone several updates and revisions since then.



In 2014, the EU revised the directive to close loopholes allowing individuals to avoid paying taxes on their savings. The revised directive required all EU member states to automatically exchange information on non-residents' bank accounts with their country of residence. The OECD introduced the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) in 2014 to detect and deter tax evasion by offshore account holders.



A 2013 directive required member states to automatically exchange non-residents' financial accounts, but this was separate from the revised Savings Tax Directive. The agreement between Switzerland and the EU, signed in May 2015, requires Swiss banks to automatically exchange information on EU residents' accounts with their country of residence. The exchange began in 2018, ending the special secrecy that EU-resident clients of Swiss banks had previously enjoyed.




How Do Offshore Banking Units Ensure Privacy and Confidentiality?
Offshore banking units ensure privacy and confidentiality through strict regulations and robust legal frameworks. Offshore jurisdictions often have stringent penalties for breaching confidentiality, discouraging unauthorized disclosures. However, it's essential to note that privacy should not be confused with secrecy, as offshore banks are required to comply with anti-money laundering regulations and may be obligated to share information with relevant authorities under certain circumstances.




What Types of Banking Services Are Offered by Offshore Banking Units?
Offshore banking units offer a range of banking services, similar to those provided by traditional banks. These services include deposit accounts, international wire transfers, foreign currency exchange, investment products, loans, credit cards, and wealth management services. Additionally, offshore banking units may assist with the establishment and administration of offshore companies, trusts, and investment funds.




What Are the Risks and Challenges Associated with Offshore Banking Units?
Offshore banking units come with certain risks and challenges. These include potential reputational risks associated with using offshore jurisdictions, increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities, and compliance risks. Investors should be aware of the legal, regulatory, and reputational risks associated with offshore banking and conduct thorough due diligence to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.




How Do Offshore Banking Units Handle Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer Regulations?
Offshore banking units handle AML and KYC regulations through robust policies, conducting thorough customer due diligence, monitoring transactions, reporting suspicious activities, and ensuring ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements to prevent money laundering and illicit financing.


   The Bottom Line  

Offshore banking units are specialized branches or subsidiaries of banks located in offshore financial centers. They offer a range of financial services to international clients, including individuals and corporations. OBUs operate under the regulatory framework of the offshore jurisdiction where they are established and provide advantages such as tax optimization, asset protection, privacy, and access to global markets.
An offshore mutual fund is an investment vehicle-based in an offshore location outside the jurisdiction of the United States, often used as a tax haven.





Key Takeaways

Offshore mutual funds may provide investment exposure to international markets, as well as tax benefits from being domiciled in overseas jurisdictions.However, offshore funds may follow different rules and regulations than standard investments, which could present some higher risks of capital loss.Investors should exercise caution. Sponsors located outside of established offshore financial centers can be prone to fraudulent activity due to relaxed regulations.


   Understanding Offshore Mutual Funds  

Offshore mutual funds are domiciled internationally. They may provide investment exposure to international markets. They are known to offer some cost benefits such as lower taxes, as well.



Internationally domiciled funds are obligated to follow the laws and regulations of the country where they are incorporated. Funds may choose their domicile to target a specific investor. Many offshore funds are incorporated in the Bahamas or Cayman Islands, which offer tax efficiencies. Taxation, regulation, and investor demand are three main factors influencing the country a fund chooses to incorporate in. The United States addresses specific offshore definitions and legislative obligations in Section 871 of the Internal Revenue Code.﻿﻿



Offshore funds can be structured much like an open-end investment fund. They can also be formed as an offshore company, partnership, or unit trust. Most offshore funds are required to have operational functionalities in their domiciled country. This has led to substantial fund administration, management, custodian, and prime brokerage services in popular offshore locations.


   Risks and Advantages  

Offshore funds can have higher risks. With domicile in a foreign country, investors may not clearly understand a fund’s terms and conditions, which could lead to unprotected loss of capital. Offshore funds may follow different rules and regulations than standard investments, which could present some higher risks of capital loss.



Generally, offshore funds seek to provide an advantage through their international incorporation. The lower level of regulation makes it easier to establish and administer the funds. Funds domiciled in most offshore countries allow for tax-free income, which enables the fund to reinvest gains. They also include tax-free distributions for investors. Operating costs are significantly reduced, and management fees can be lower.



Investors should always add extra due diligence when investing money in offshore accounts with sponsors that are not well known or are located outside of established offshore financial centers. While many funds offer competitive advantages, non-mainstream offerings can be prone to fraudulent activity because of relaxed regulations in some offshore locations.


   Offshore Mutual Fund Investments  

Many brokerage platforms will offer their investors a selection of offshore funds, which can help to reduce some of the investment risks. The Third Point Investors Limited is a London-listed, closed-end fund managed by Dan Loeb. Its TPOU share class is denominated in U.S. dollars.
What Was the Offshore Portfolio Investment Strategy (OPIS)?  

The Offshore Portfolio Investment Strategy (OPIS) was an abusive tax avoidance scheme sold by KPMG, one of the Big Four accounting firms, between 1997 to 2001. This was a time when fraudulent tax shelters had proliferated across the global financial services industry. OPIS was one of many tax avoidance products offered by accounting firms.





Key Takeaways

Offshore Portfolio Investment Strategy (OPIS) was a tax avoidance product offered by the accounting firm, KPMG.OPIS was one of many tax avoidance schemes offered by accounting firms in the 1990s.These accounting schemes would create shell companies and record fake transactions and investments that would result in losses. These losses were used to offset the profits of a company, resulting in a lower amount of taxes owed.The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) eventually made these tax schemes illegal, as they served no purpose except to lower taxes and robbed the government of tax revenue.The companies involved in the tax scandals had to pay millions of dollars in damages.


   Understanding the Offshore Portfolio Investment Strategy (OPIS)  

Offshore Portfolio Investment Strategy (OPIS) used investment swaps and shell companies in the Cayman Islands to create fake accounting losses that were used to offset taxes on legitimate taxable income and defraud the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Some of these fake accounting losses were significantly more than the real financial loss.



Many tax shelters were based on legal tax-planning techniques. But they became such big business that the IRS began a crackdown on abusive tax shelters and their increasingly complex structures, which had deprived the U.S. government of $85 billion between 1989 and 2003, according to the Government Accountability Office.


   The Design of the Offshore Portfolio Investment Strategy (OPIS)  

Accounting firms that audit companies created financial losses using a variety of accounting practices. These losses were then used to offset actual profits from operations or from capital gains, resulting in a lower reported profit and therefore a lower amount taxed.



For example, if a company reported $20,000 in profits before taxes and had to pay 10% tax on those profits, they would owe $2,000 ($20,000 x 10%) and their profits after taxes would be $18,000 ($20,000 - $2,000). Now, if an accounting company was able to generate additional losses through false accounting practices, say, in the amount of $5,000, the company's profits before taxes would be $15,000 instead of $20,000.



The tax the company would now pay would be $1,500 ($15,000 x 10%), which is $500 ($2,000 - $1,500) less than what they should legally be paying. This was $500 that was robbed from the government and added to its pockets, or to the pockets of the accounting firm if the company was not aware of the fraudulent practice, which in many cases they weren't, resulting in the payment of back taxes owed.



The manner in which an accounting firm would conduct this tax avoidance scheme was through the creation of a shell company. The shell company would record a variety of transactions and investments, all that would result in losses. These losses were not of course real as the transactions and investments were not real. These fake losses were then used to offset the actual profits of a company.


   The KPMG-Deutsche Bank Tax Shelter Scandal  

The IRS formally declared OPIS and similar tax shelters unlawful in 2001-2002, because they had no legitimate economic purpose other than reducing taxes. However, email messages showed that KPMG had subsequently discussed selling new shelters that were similar to the banned version and that they failed to cooperate with investigators.



The U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations began an investigation in 2002. Its report, in November 2003, found that numerous global banks and accounting firms had promoted abusive and illegal tax shelters. Along with KPMG’s OPIS products, it singled out Deutsche Bank’s Custom Adjustable Rate Debt Structure (CARDS) and Wachovia Bank’s Foreign Leveraged Investment Program (FLIP) products. Banks like Deutsche Bank, HVB, UBS, and NatWest had provided loans to help orchestrate the transactions.



In 2002, PricewaterhouseCoopers reached a settlement for an undisclosed amount with the IRS while Ernst & Young finalized their $123 million settlement in 2013. In the meantime, KPMG ended up admitting unlawful conduct and paying a $456 million fine in 2005. Part of the settlement Attorney General Alberto Gonzales negotiated was KPMG’s promise to stay out of the tax shelter business. But nine individuals, including six partners, were indicted for creating $11 billion in false tax losses and depriving the U.S. government of $2.5 billion of tax revenue.



Subsequently, many of the firms which had helped sell these tax shelters were sued by clients who had to pay the IRS back taxes and penalties. Investors who sued Deutsche Bank brought to light that it had helped 2,100 customers evade taxes, reporting more than $29 billion in fraudulent tax losses between 1996 and 2002. It admitted criminal wrongdoing in 2010 and settled for $553.6 million.
What Is an Offtake Agreement?  

An offtake agreement is an arrangement between a producer and a buyer to purchase or sell portions of the producer's upcoming goods. It is normally negotiated before the construction of a factory or facility to secure a market and revenue stream for its future output.



Offtake agreements are typically used to help the selling company acquire project financing for future construction, expansion projects, or new equipment through the promise of future income and proof of existing demand for the goods.





Key Takeaways

An offtake agreement is an agreement to buy or sell, in advance, some of a producer's goods that haven't yet been made, making it easier for producers to obtain financing.This type of agreement may be negotiated far in advance, often prior to construction of manufacturing facilities and before actual production has begun.Offtake agreements can help buyers lock in a price and guarantee supply of a product in anticipation of future demand.


   Understanding Offtake Agreements  

Offtake agreements are legally binding contracts related to transactions between buyers and sellers. The provisions usually specify the purchase price for the goods and the delivery date, even though the agreement is reached before any goods are produced and any ground is broken on a facility. However, companies can usually back out of an offtake agreement through negotiations with the other party and with the payment of a fee.



Offtake agreements are frequently used in natural resource development, where the capital costs to extract resources are significant, and the company wants a guarantee that some of its products will be sold.



The offtake agreement serves an important role for the producer. If lenders can see the company has clients and customers lined up before production begins, they are more likely to approve the extension of a loan or credit. So offtake agreements make it easier to obtain financing to construct a facility.


   Benefits of Offtake Agreements  

In addition to providing a guaranteed market and source of revenue for a company's product, an offtake agreement allows the producer/seller to guarantee a minimum level of profit for its investment. Since offtake agreements often help secure funds for the creation or expansion of a facility, the seller can negotiate a price that secures a minimum level of return on the associated goods, thereby lowering the risk associated with the investment.



Offtake agreements may provide a benefit to buyers as well, functioning as a way to secure goods at a particular price. That means prices are fixed for the buyer before the manufacture of them begins. Doing this may act as a hedge against future price changes, especially if a product becomes popular or a resource becomes scarce, causing demand to outweigh supply. It also provides a guarantee that the requested assets will be delivered: fulfillment of the order is considered the seller's obligation under the terms of the offtake agreement.






Offtake agreements also include default clauses that outline the recourse—including penalties—either party has in case there is a violation of one or multiple clauses.


   Special Considerations for Offtake Agreements  

Most offtake agreements include force majeure clauses. These clauses allow the buyer or seller to cancel the contract if certain events occur deemed outside the control of either party and if one puts unnecessary hardship on the other. Force majeure clauses often provide protection against the negative impact of certain acts of nature, such as flooding or wildfires.
What is an OHLC Chart?  

An OHLC chart is a type of bar chart that shows open, high, low, and closing prices for each period. OHLC charts are useful since they show the four major data points over a period, with the closing price being considered the most important by many traders.



The chart type is useful because it can show increasing or decreasing momentum. When the open and close are far apart it shows strong momentum, and when the open and close are close together it shows indecision or weak momentum. The high and low show the full price range of the period, useful in assessing volatility. There several patterns traders watch for on OHLC charts.





Key Takeaways

An OHLC chart shows the open, high, low, and close price for a given period.It can be applied to any timeframe.The vertical line represents the high and low for the period, while the line to the left marks the open price and the line to the right marks the closing price. This entire structure is called a bar.When the close is above the open, the bar is often colored black. When the close is below the open the bar is often colored red.


   Understanding OHLC Charts  

OHLC charts consist of a vertical line and two short horizontal lines extending to the left and right of the horizontal line. The horizontal line extending to the left represents the opening price for the period, while the horizontal line extending to the right represents the closing price for the period. The height of the vertical line represents the intraday range for the period, with the high being the period's high and the low of the vertical line being the period's low. The entire structure is called a price bar.



When the price rises over a period, the right line will be above the left, since the close is above the open. Often times, these bars are colored black. If the price falls during a period, the right line will be below the left, since the close is below the open. These bars are typically colored red.



OHLC charts can be applied to any time frame. If applied to a 5-minute chart it will show the open, high, low, and close price for each 5-minute period. If applied to a daily chart, it will show the open, high, low, and close price for each day.



OHLC charts show more information than line charts which only show closing prices connected together into a continuous line. OHLC and candlestick charts show the same amount of information, but they show it in a slightly different way. While OHLC charts show the open and close via left and right facing horizontal lines, candlesticks show the open and close via a real body.


   Interpreting OHLC Charts  

There are several different techniques that technical analysts use to interpret OHLC charts. Here are several guidelines.



Vertical Height: The vertical height of an OHLC bar is indicative of the volatility during the period. If the line height is great, then traders know that there's a lot of volatility and indecision in the market.



Horizontal Line Position: The position of the left and right horizontal lines tell technical traders where the asset opened and closed relative to its high and low. If the security rallied higher, but the close was much lower than the high, traders might assume that the rally fizzled toward the end of the period. If the price fell, but closed much higher than its low, selling fizzled toward the end of the period.



If the open and close are close together, it shows indecision, since the price couldn't make much progress in either direction. If the close is well above or below the open, it shows that there was strong selling or buying during the period.



Bar Color: Typically during an uptrend, more bars will be colored black than red. During a downtrend, more red bars than black bars are common. This can provide information on the trend direction and its strength. A series of large black bars, at a glance, shows strong upward movement. While more analysis is necessary, this information may be helpful when deciding whether to look further into the details.



Patterns: Traders also watch for patterns to occur on the OHLC chart. The major patterns include the key reversal, inside bar, and outside bar. A key reversal in an uptrend occurs when the price opens above the prior bar's close, makes a new high, and then closes below the prior bar's low. It shows a strong shift in momentum which could indicate a pullback is starting. A key reversal in a downtrend occurs when the price opens below the prior bar's close, makes a new low, and then closes above the prior bar's high. This indicates a strong shift to the upside, warning of a potential rally.


   Example of an OHLC Chart  

The following is an OHLC chart for the S&P 500 SPDR ETF (SPY). Overall rises are typically marked by a greater number of black bars, like the period at the start of October. Trough mid-November the price moves slightly higher but mostly sideways, marked by more alternating bar colors.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In mid-November, the price starts to rise, marked by a couple wider ranging black bars. At the start of the year, the price continued to escalate, dominated by black rising bars. At the start of February, there are large red bars, much larger than any seen during the prior advance. This is a major warning sign of strong selling pressure.
What Is an Oil ETF?  

An oil ETF is an exchange-traded fund (ETF) which invests in companies engaged in the oil and gas industry. Companies featured in the ETF basket include discovery, production, distribution, and retail businesses as well as the commodity itself. Some oil ETFs may be commodity pools, with limited partnership interests instead of shares. These pools invest in derivative contracts such as futures and options.





Key Takeaways

An oil ETF is an exchange-traded fund (ETF) which invests in companies engaged in the oil and gas industry.Some oil ETFs may be commodity pools, with limited partnership interests instead of shares. These pools invest in derivative contracts such as futures and options.With an oil ETF, the investors are not dealing in futures, so physical inventory isn't a concern.


   Understanding an Oil ETF  

An oil ETF offers advantages to those wanting to participate in oil markets and reap the potential profits without the logistics of handling single energy-related stocks. Like mutual funds, an exchange-traded fund will track an index, a commodity, bonds, or a basket of assets. Unlike mutual funds, an ETF trades like a common stock on an exchange. They experience price fluctuations throughout the day so have higher daily liquidity. Also, they frequently have lower fees than mutual fund shares, making them an attractive alternative for individual investors.



Most investors, especially individuals, cannot obtain and store physical supplies of crude oil nor would they want to do that. However, the volatile oil industry is a favorite investment and trading sector. With an oil ETF, the investors are not dealing in futures, so physical inventory isn't a concern. This option provides a convenient way for investors interested in getting into the oil market to participate.



The benchmark target for an oil ETF may be a market index of oil companies or the spot price of crude itself. Funds may focus on only United States-based companies or may invest around the world. There are even inverse ETFs for oil and other sectors. Inverse securities move in an equal and opposite direction to the underlying index or benchmark. Oil ETFs will attempt to track their relative index as closely as possible, but small performance discrepancies will be found, especially over short time frames.


   Investing Challenges of Oil ETFs  

Oil ETFs have a high level of demand from investors because oil is such a pervasive commodity in the modern global economy. This investing trend is only likely to increase. Almost every end product used by people, companies, and governments is in some way affected by the price of oil, either as a raw component or through the costs of energy, transportation, and product distribution.



However, investing in oil ETFs can be tricky and complicated. Many fluctuating factors impact the market, and these conditions can be difficult to predict. The market is continually adjusting, and global political events and environmental conditions have significant, and unexpected, effects on the market.



There are many oil-based ETFs available for investments. Research and comparison of the expenses and results of the available funds are critical before investing. Some of the most significant oil ETFs in the U.S. marketplace include: 



United States Oil Fund (USO) seeks to follow the daily changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil for delivery at Cushing, Oklahoma and follows the Benchmark Oil Futures Index.Vanguard Energy ETF (VDE) uses an indexing approach to track the MSCI USA Investable Market Index (IMI/Energy) with the stocks of large-, medium-, and small-size U.S. companies.Alerian MLP ETF (AMLP) invests at least 90% of funds in the assets included in the Alerian MLP Infrastructure Index made up of transportation, processing, and storage of energy commodities.Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE) seeks to replicate the Energy Select Sector Index by investing at least 95% of the funds in oil, gas, consumable fuels, and energy equipment and services companies.
What Is an Oil Field?  

An oil field is a tract of land used for the purpose of extracting petroleum, such as natural gas or crude oil, from the ground. Although some contest the exact origins of oil, most consider petroleum to be a "fossil fuel" created from dead organic material often found in ancient seabeds thousands of meters below the surface of the earth.



Identifying viable oil fields is an important piece of the upstream oil industry.





Key Takeaways

An oil field is a piece of land beneath which fossil fuels can be extracted for economic value.Most of the world's oil is concentrated in oil fields located in the Middle East, along with other large deposits discovered beneath the ocean's surface.Oil exploration to discover new drilling sites can expensive and risky, but also quite lucrative if a large reserve is identified.


   Understanding Oil Fields  

An oil field consists of a reservoir of fossil fuel found deep in the rocky strata of the Earth, where hydrocarbons have become trapped. An impermeable, or sealing rock layer covers the reservoir keeping intact over millennia. Typically, oil industry professionals use the term "oil field" with an implied assumption of economic size. For instance, an oil field may be discovered containing a million barrels of oil, equal to the market price of oil multiplied by its size.



Presently, there are more than 65,000 oil fields around the world, with many of the largest located in the Middle East where tens of thousands of oil fields have been discovered. Despite the large number of fields 94% of known reserves are concentrated in fewer than 1500 major oil fields. The locations of oil fields have been the origin of past geopolitical conflicts and environmental concerns. Oil may also be discovered beneath the ocean floor, where deep-sea rigs explore and extract these fields.


   Complications of Establishing an Oil Field  

Establishing an oil field can be a herculean feat of logistics, and can be a risky prospect if an oil field proves be less productive than anticipated. Exploration will often include establishing the basic infrastructure necessary for what can be decades of extraction, production, and maintenance. Integrated oil companies often contain entire divisions that are responsible for infrastructure construction and specialized services that are required to operate a profitable oil field. Oil fields are dotted with a variety of extraction equipment which includes drilling rigs, offshore platforms, pump jacks, and more. There may also be exploratory wells probing the edges, pipelines to transport the oil elsewhere, and support facilities.



In recent years, new technologies in oil exploration and production have dramatically increased the productivity levels of oil fields. These include horizontal drilling, hydraulic drilling, hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking", and the use of the material proppant. Proppant is a mixture of water and sand used to keep the fractured pathways to the wellbore clear.



These technologies, coupled with advances such as seismic monitoring, have helped to increase oil field efficiency rates and contributed to a glut in oil supply, which drove oil prices down. Companies that work in oil fields remain focused on technological development to lower their production costs in the current price-pressured environment.


   Example of an Oil Field  

Ghawar Field in Saudi Arabia, which started production in 1951, is by far the largest oil field uncovered to date. It has yielded more than 80 billion barrels of "black gold" through 2018.﻿﻿ There are also offshore oil fields, and the Safaniya field is the world's largest. Located in the Persian Gulf off the Saudi Arabian coast, the Safaniya field is thought to hold more than 50 billion barrels of oil.
What Does Oil Initially in Place Mean?  

Oil initially in place (OIIP) is the amount of crude oil first estimated to be in a reservoir. Oil initially in place differs from oil reserves, as OIIP refers to the total amount of oil that is potentially in a reservoir and not the amount of oil that can be recovered. Calculating OIIP requires engineers to determine how porous the rock surrounding the oil is, how high water saturation might be and the net rock volume of the reservoir. The numbers for the aforementioned factors are established by conducting a series of test drills around the reservoir.


   Understanding Oil Initially in Place (OIIP)  

Oil initially in place is known more simply as oil in place (OIP). It is also referred to by a few variations. Stock tank oil initially in place (STOIIP) is the same volumetric calculation with it being made explicit that the volume being estimated is the volume filled by the extracted oil at surface temperature and pressure rather than the compressed volume the crude oil fills in the reservoir due to geological pressure. Original gas in place (OGIP) is again the same volumetric calculation but for natural gas reservoirs. Finally, hydrocarbons initially in place (HCIIP) is the generic term that can be used for both oil and gas when doing a volumetric calculation to estimate the contents of a potential drill site.


   The Importance of Oil Initially in Place (OIIP)  

Determining oil initially in place is one of the major components taken into account by analysts determining the economics of oil field development. Oil initially in place hints at the potential of a reservoir. This is a critical data point, but it is only the start of the analysis prior to the decision to drill or sit on a lease. Oil in initially in place gives an oil company an estimate of the total number of barrels sitting under the various leases. If all the oil initially in place was recoverable, then oil companies would just need to start at their biggest reservoir and work their way down to the smallest, trying to keep drilling costs fixed along the way. In reality, only a portion of the oil initially in place will ever be recovered and characteristics of the formation will impact drilling costs.



So analyzing oil initially in place is the trigger for further analysis of how much of the OIIP is recoverable with the current technology. The estimated recoverable oil for a reservoir will allow the oil company holding the lease to decide if current prices support drilling and production. For example, if an oil company can only be able to extract 50% of the oil initially in place with current technology, it may make sense to move those acres into its probable reserves and hold them for future development. The company can then use the money saved by not drilling that reservoir to tap a different one with better overall production for the cost of drilling. If, however, global oil prices climb, then the reservoir may be put into production simply because the new price makes the cost of getting that 50% out of the ground economical. For this reason, oil companies are constantly re-evaluating their lease holding and the oil initially in place against global prices to make decisions on where and when to drill.
What Is the Oil Pollution Act of 1990?  

The U.S. Congress enacted the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA) to streamline and strengthen the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) power to prevent oil spills. It was passed as an amendment to the Clean Water Act of 1972 following the Exxon Valdez oil spill of 1989. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 is one of the most wide-reaching and critical pieces of environmental legislation ever passed.





Key Takeaways

The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 expanded the power of federal agencies to prevent and punish mass oil spills.It was passed by the U.S. Congress in response to the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989 as an amendment to the Clean Water Act of 1972.The goal of the OPA was to design and establish a comprehensive federal framework that would prevent future oil spills and develop cleanup procedures in the case of a spill-related emergency.The OPA is primarily enforced and administered by the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).Before the passing of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the U.S. was poorly placed in dealing with oil spills in terms of federal funding to respond to them as well as having a narrow scope of damages in regards to compensation to those affected. The OPA remedied these shortcomings.


   Understanding the Oil Pollution Act of 1990  

The Exxon Valdez oil spill on March 24, 1989, resulted in 11 million gallons of Alaskan crude oil being spilled into the waters of Prince William Sound. The oil spill was the worst in the U.S. until it was eclipsed by the larger Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010.



The Exxon Valdez oil spill affected 1,300 miles of coastline and hundreds and thousands of animals. Twenty-five years after the event, there are still four species that have not recovered. As of August 2020, pockets of oil can still be found in the area. It also shed light on the fact that the U.S. was severely limited in its ability to react to oil spills, both in terms of having adequate resources, primarily federal funds, to respond to such spills, and that the scope of damages compensable to those impacted was very narrow. The Oil Pollution Act was created to remedy these shortcomings.



The Oil Pollution Act was designed to establish a comprehensive federal framework that would prevent future spills and develop cleanup procedures in the case of a spill-related emergency. Primary enforcement and administration of the act are by the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).



Before passage of the OPA, federal pollution legislation had been an ineffective web of weak enforcement and insufficient liability for polluters. The OPA sought to solve this problem by establishing stricter standards for the maritime transportation of oil, which included the following:



New requirements for construction of vessels and training of personnel.Contingency planning requirements.Enhanced federal response capability.Broadened enforcement authority.Increased penalties for polluters.Further research and development programs for cleanup and storage technology.Increased potential liabilities.Increased financial responsibility requirements.



The OPA greatly increased the government's oversight of maritime oil transportation and created a detailed "prevention, response, liability, and compensation regime to deal with vessel- and facility-caused oil pollution to U.S. navigable waters."


   Liability Under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990  

A primary emphasis of the OPA is the liability, financial and otherwise, which the act imposes on any party found to be responsible for a destructive oil spill. Any firm identified as a responsible party is subject to virtually unlimited cleanup costs.



However, any claimant seeking reimbursement for cleanup costs must first request it directly from the guilty party. If the responsible party refuses, a claimant can then take legal action against the firm or seek it directly from a federally established Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. 



The OPA has also authorized the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund (OSLTF) up to $1 billion to pay for quick oil removal and uncompensated damages for each oil spill.



The establishment of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund (OSLTF) came in 1986, before the Valdez incident. It was established to finance clean-up efforts and damage assessments and to cover unmet private liability on the part of a responsible party. Funding for the trust is by a tax, on both domestic production and imports, of petroleum products.
What Is the Oil Price to Natural Gas Ratio?  

As its name suggests, the oil price to natural gas ratio is a ratio in which the price of oil is the numerator and the price of natural gas is the denominator. 



The purpose of the oil price to natural gas ratio is to capture the relative valuation of these two important energy commodities. It is widely used by commodities traders, energy analysts, and investors.





Key Takeaways

The oil price to natural gas ratio expresses the price of oil relative to natural gas.It is a widely-used metric in the energy commodities market.The ratio has varied widely in recent years, reaching a historically low level in April 2020 during the 2020 crisis.


   Understanding the Oil Price to Natural Gas Ratio  

Crude oil and natural gas are important energy commodities that are actively traded on commodities markets such as the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). They are widely used as fuels for heating and electricity generation throughout the world.



One NYMEX crude oil contract is equivalent to 1,000 barrels of crude oil, whereas one natural gas contract equals 10,000 British Thermal Units (MMBtu) of natural gas.﻿﻿﻿﻿ When calculating the oil price to natural gas ratio, the oil numerator refers to barrels of oil whereas the natural gas denominator refers to units of 10 MMBtu. The higher the oil price to natural gas ratio, the greater the price of oil relative to natural gas. If the ratio declines, then this means the difference in the prices of the two commodities is narrowing.



Oftentimes, traders will purchase crude oil futures when the oil price to natural gas ratio is below its historical averages, believing that they are receiving a bargain price for oil. Likewise, they will purchase natural gas futures when the ratio is above its historical norm. The same strategy can also work in reverse, selling oil futures when the ratio is high and selling natural gas futures when the ratio is low.


   Real-World Example of the Oil Price to Natural Gas Ratio  

The oil price to natural gas ratio has shown a fair amount of volatility in recent years. Up until 2009, for instance, the ratio averaged about 10:1, meaning that when oil was at $50 a barrel, natural gas would be at $5 per MMBtu. In April 2012, however, the ratio jumped to 50:1, with oil at $120 per barrel and natural gas at only $2 per MMBtu. Just a few years later, between June 2014 and March 2015, the price of oil dropped to $45 per barrel, bringing the ratio down to 16:1.



But perhaps the most dramatic recent event in the oil price to natural gas ratio occurred in April 2020, when the price of oil hit historic lows as a result of the 2020 global crisis. During this period, crude oil reached $15 per barrel, while natural gas reached $1.91 per MMBtu, yielding a ratio of 8:1.
What Is an Oil Refinery?  

An oil refinery is an industrial plant that transforms, or refines crude oil into various usable petroleum products such as diesel, gasoline, and heating oils like kerosene. Oil refineries essentially serve as the second stage in the crude oil production process following the actual extraction of crude oil up-stream, and refinery services are considered to be a down-stream segment of the oil and gas industry.



The first step in the refining process is distillation, where crude oil is heated at extreme temperatures to separate the different hydrocarbons.





Key Takeaways

An oil refinery is a facility that takes crude oil and distills it into various useful petroleum products such as gasoline, kerosene, or jet fuel.Refining is classified as a downstream operation of the oil and gas industry, although many integrated oil companies will operate both extraction and refining services.Refineries and oil traders look to the crack spread, the relative difference in production cost and market price of various petroleum products in the derivatives market to hedge their exposure to crude oil prices.


   Understanding Oil Refineries  

Oil refineries serve an important role in the production of transportation and other fuels. The crude oil components, once separated, can be sold to different industries for a broad range of purposes. Lubricants can be sold to industrial plants immediately after distillation, but other products require more refining before reaching the final user. Major refineries have the capacity to process hundreds of thousand barrels of crude oil daily.



In the industry, the refining process is commonly called the "downstream" sector, while raw crude oil production is known as the "upstream" sector. The term downstream is associated with the concept that oil is sent down the product value chain to an oil refinery to be processed into fuel. The downstream stage also includes the actual sale of petroleum products to other businesses, governments, or private individuals.



According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), U.S. refineries produce—from a 42-gallon barrel of crude oil—19 to 20 gallons of motor gasoline, 11 to 12 gallons of distillate fuel (most of which is sold as diesel), and four gallons of jet fuel. More than a dozen other petroleum products are also produced in refineries. Petroleum refineries produce liquids the petrochemical industry uses to make a variety of chemicals and plastics.












   "Cracking" Crude Oil  

An oil refinery runs 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and requires a large number of employees. Refineries come offline or stop working for a few weeks each year to undergo seasonal maintenance and other repair work. A refinery can occupy as much land as several hundred football fields. Famous oil refining companies include the Koch Pipeline Company, and many others.



Crack or crack spread is a trading strategy used in energy futures to establish a refining margin. Crack is one primary indicator of oil refining companies' earnings. Crack allows refining companies to hedge against the risks associated with crude oil and those associated with petroleum products. By simultaneously purchasing crude oil futures and selling petroleum product futures, a trader is attempting to establish an artificial position in the refinement of oil created through a spread.






The Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) is a measure of the sophistication of an oil refinery, where more complex refineries are able to produce lighter, more heavily refined and valuable products from a barrel of oil.



The proportions of petroleum products a refinery produces from crude oil can also affect crack spreads. Some of these products include asphalt, aviation fuel, diesel, gasoline, and kerosene. In some cases, the proportion produced varies based on demand from the local market. 



The mix of products also depends on the kind of crude oil processed. Heavier crude oils are more difficult to refine into lighter products like gasoline. Refineries that use simpler refining processes may be restricted in their ability to produce products from heavy crude oil.


   Refinery Services  

Oil refining is a purely downstream function, although many of the companies doing it have midstream and even upstream production. This integrated approach to oil production allows companies like Exxon (XOM), Shell (RDS.A), and Chevron (CVX) to take oil from exploration all the way to sale. The refining side of the business is actually hurt by high prices, because demand for many petroleum products, including gas, is price sensitive. However, when oil prices drop, selling value-added products becomes more profitable. Refining pure plays include Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC), CVR Energy Inc. (CVI), and Valero Energy Corp (VLO).



One area service companies and refiners agree on is creating more pipeline capacity and transport. Refiners want more pipeline to keep down the cost of transporting oil by truck or rail. Service companies want more pipeline because they make money in the design and laying stages, and get a steady income from maintenance and testing.


   Oil Refinery Safety  

Oil refineries can be dangerous places to work at times. For example, in 2005 there was an accident at BP's Texas City oil refinery. According to the U.S. Chemical Safety Board, a series of explosions occurred during the restarting of a hydrocarbon isomerization unit. Fifteen workers were killed and 180 others were injured. The explosions occurred when a distillation tower flooded with hydrocarbons and was over-pressurized, causing a geyser-like release from the vent stack.




How Many Oil Refineries Are There in the United States?
As of Jan. 1, 2021, there were 129 operable petroleum refineries in the United States. The last refinery to enter operation was in 2019 in Texas.




How Much Crude Oil Does It Take to Make a Gallon of Gasoline?
One barrel of oil (42 gallons) produces 19 to 20 gallons of gasoline and 11 to 12 gallons of diesel fuel.




What Is the Crack Spread?
In commodities trading, the "crack spread" is the differences in price between a barrel of unrefined crude oil and the refined products (such as gasoline) that are derived from it. Traders look to changes in the crack spread as a market signal for price movements in oil and refined products.
What Are Oil Reserves?  

Oil reserves are an estimate of the amount of crude oil located in a particular economic region with the potential of being extracted. Reserves are calculated based on a proven probable basis and oil pools situated in unattainable depths are not considered part of a nation's reserves.





Key Takeaways

Oil reserves are the amount of crude oil a country or region has that can be extracted. Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, and Canada are the three leading countries with the most oil reserves. Industry leader BP plc estimates that there are 1.73 trillion barrels of oil reserves globally.Approximately 80% of the world’s oil reserves are in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is an emergency supply of crude oil that can be used to offset a severe oil supply shortage in the United States.


   Understanding Oil Reserves  

In its 2021 report, oil industry leader BP Plc estimates that there are 1.73 trillion barrels of oil reserves in the world. According to the British company's Statistical Review of World Energy report, Venezuela leads with 303.8 billion barrels in reserve. Saudi Arabia is second with 297.5 billion, Canada ranks third with 168.1 billion, and the U.S. ninth with 68.8 billion barrels.










The World's Largest Oil Reserves By Country


Rank
Country
Oil Reserves (in billions of barrels)




1
Venezuela
303.8


2
Saudi Arabia
297.5


3
Canada
168.1


4
Iran
157.8


5
Iraq
145


6
Russia
107.8


7
Kuwait
101.5


8
United Arab Emirates
97.8


9
United States
68.8


10
Libya
48.4






Source: BP, plc.



The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), however, concludes that 1.25 trillion barrels exist globally. The cartel estimates that 80.4% of global reserves are held by its members, including Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, and Libya.












   Calculating Oil Reserves  

BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy is one of the leading sources of energy market data and information, dating back several decades. Another source is the World Oil Review supplied by the Italian oil company ENI SpA.



Similar to BP's statistical review, ENI's publication provides details about global oil reserves. The Energy Information Administration (EIA) calculates U.S. oil reserves with information dating back to 1900.



One of the critical ratios analysts use to measure the longevity of reserves is the reserve-to-production ratio (R/P). The R/P estimates the number of years a reserve base will last at current annual production rates and is used by companies operating in the oil industry, as well as oil-producing countries.



This chart from BP reveals two significant trends in global oil reserves. 



World's Reserves-to-Production (R/P) Ratios by Year













Source: BP, plc. 



First and most obvious, it illustrates the massive increase in South and Central American oil reserves relative to production since 2006, when Brazil made some significant oil finds in its offshore pre-salt basins. BP currently estimates that the South and Central America region has enough oil reserves to last more than 150 years at current production levels.



The volume of oil reserves does not necessarily translate into production figures. For example, Venezuela's share of the overall oil production market has collapsed in recent years due to internal strife. According to the 2021 BP Statistical Review of World Energy, the South American nation accounted for just 0.6% of overall production volumes, despite having the world's largest oil reserves.



A downtrend also exists in Middle Eastern oil reserves relative to production. In the 1990s, Middle Eastern countries had R/P ratios of 100 years. Over the last 30 years, this ratio has fallen until the last several years while production rates fluctuate and reserves become harder to find. Reserves-to-production for the Middle East now stands at approximately 80 years.



A similar trend of a downward sloping R/P is happening in North America, which has aggressively increased production over the last several years. The reserve for North America is estimated at 30 years.




What Are the Components of an Oil Reserve?
Petroleum reserves and resources are hydrocarbon deposits predominantly occurring in subsurface geologic formations. Reserves can be reported in the context of a reservoir, field, petroleum basin, or country as a whole.




Why Are Oil Reserves Important to the United States?
The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is an emergency supply of crude oil that can be used to offset a severe oil supply shortage. The SPR was created to provide the United States with crude oil in the event of a severe oil supply or economic disruption. Only the President of the United States can give permission to use it and maintaining the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is an important national security tool and the reserve is intended to serve as America’s insurance policy against a severe oil supply disruption or a severe economic disruption.




What Was the 1973 Oil Embargo?
An oil crisis began in October 1973 when the members of OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, proclaimed an oil embargo, a ban on the trade of oil. The embargo was targeted at nations that had supported Israel during the Yom Kippur War and included Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States. By the end of the embargo in March 1974, the price of oil had risen nearly 300% and caused an oil crisis, or "shock", with many short- and long-term effects on global politics and the global economy.


   The Bottom Line  

Oil reserves are an estimate of the amount of crude oil located in a particular economic region with the potential of being extracted. The oil industry estimates that there are 1.73 trillion barrels of oil reserves in the world. In the United States, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is an emergency supply of crude oil that can be used to offset a severe oil supply shortage.
What Are Oil Sands?  

Oil sands, or tar sands, are sand and rock material that contain crude bitumen—a dense, viscous form of crude oil. Bitumen is too thick to flow on its own, so extraction methods are necessary. Bitumen is extracted and processed using two methods: mining and in-situ recovery.



Oil sands are found primarily in the Athabasca, Cold Lake, and Peace River regions of northern Alberta and Saskatchewan, Canada, and in areas of Venezuela, Kazakhstan, and Russia. Oil sands trade as part of crude oil commodities.





Key Takeaways

Oil sands or tar sands are sand and rock materials which contain crude bitumen, a thick and viscous liquid.The end product of oil sands is conventional oil. However, the process to extract it is much more expensive and environmentally harmful as compared to other methods, such as oil rigs.Canada has the third-largest proven oil reserves after Venezuela and Saudi Arabia.﻿﻿


   Understanding Oil Sands  

The end product from oil sands is very similar to, if not better than, that of conventional oil which uses oil rigs for extraction. Intensive mining, extraction, and upgrading processes mean that oil from oil sands typically costs several times more to produce than using conventional methods and is environmentally destructive. The process of extracting bitumen from oil sands results in significant emissions, destruction to the land, negative impacts on the wildlife, pollution of the local water supply, and much more.



Despite the negative environmental impact, oil sands produce significant revenue for Canada, which relies on oil sands as a significant portion of its economic health.



Canada has an estimated 171 billion barrels of proven oil reserves, of which 166.3 billion barrels are found in Alberta's oil sands. At the end of 2014, Canada ranked third in the world in proven reserves after Venezuela and Saudi Arabia.﻿﻿﻿ This means oil sands are a significant component of Canada's economy in terms of investment, employment, and revenue.


   Process of Extracting Oil From Oil Sands  

In surface mining oil sands, clearing large land areas of trees and brush is the first step. The topsoil and clay are removed to expose the oil sand. This surface mining method uses large trucks and shovels to remove the sand, which can have a volume of anywhere from 1% to 20% of actual bitumen. After processing and upgrading, the results travel to refineries for refining into gasoline, jet fuel, and other petroleum products.



The mining method is considered to be very damaging to the environment, as it involves leveling hundreds of square miles of land, trees, and wildlife. Oil sands operators must develop a plan to reclaim the land and have this approved by the government. Since oil sands operations began in Canada in the 1960s, just 8% of total mining area has been reclaimed or is in the process of reclamation.﻿﻿﻿



Another method of mining oil sands is in-situ, also called in-situ recovery (ISR) or solution mining. It is mainly used to extract bitumen in oil sand that is buried too deep below the earth's surface for recovery with a truck and shovel.



In situ technology injects steam and chemicals deep beneath the ground to separate the viscous bitumen from the sand and then pump it up to the surface. The bitumen then goes through the same upgrading process as it would in the surface mining method.






Because mining for oil sands is extremely expensive, the price of oil is a critical factor in profit generation for mining companies. If the price of oil drops too low then mining oil sands may not be monetarily beneficial.



The in situ method is more costly than the surface mining method, but it is less damaging to the environment, requiring only a few hundred meters of land and a nearby water source to operate. After drilling holes, a mining solution is pumped into the soil. At times explosions or hydraulic fracturing may be utilized to open pathways.



It is estimated by the Alberta government that 80% of oil in the oil sands is buried too deep for open-pit mining; therefore, in situ methods will likely be the future of extracting oil from oil sands.﻿﻿ The most common form of in situ is called steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD).


   Environmental Protection and Oil Sands  

The environmental impact of extracting oil sands from Alberta's oil fields has led environmentalists to object to the oil pipeline that connects the country with the United States.



Organizations, such as Canada's Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), are focused on reducing the environmental impact of mining oil sands for oil. They provide funding for research initiatives related to mitigating the environmental impact of mining for oil sands. The organization provides in-depth information related to mining, wildfire risks, vegetation, industry reports, research reports, and more.﻿﻿
What Is Okun's Law?  

Okun's Law is an empirically observed relationship between unemployment and losses in a country's production. It predicts that a 1% increase in unemployment will usually be associated with a 2% drop in gross domestic product (GDP).



When economists are studying the economy, they tend to hone in on two factors: output and jobs. Because there is a relationship between these two elements of an economy, many economists study the relationship between output (or more specifically, gross domestic product) and unemployment levels. 



Okun's Law looks at the statistical relationship between GDP and unemployment. Okun's Law can also be used to estimate gross national product (GNP).





Key Takeaways


Okun's law is an observed relationship between a country's GDP (or GNP) and employment levels.
Okun's law was coined by Arthur Okun, a Yale economist who served on President Kennedy's council of economic advisors.
Okun's law predicts that a 1% drop in employment tends to be accompanied by a drop in GDP of around 2%. Likewise, a 1% increase in employment is associated with a 2% GDP increase.
Okun's law is not without controversy, and some economists disagree about the exact relationship between employment and productivity.
Although Okun's law is not derived from any theoretical prediction, observational data indicates that Okun's law often holds true.




   Understanding Okun's Law  

Arthur Okun was a Yale professor and an economist who studied the relationship between unemployment and production. Okun was born in November 1928 and died in March 1980 at the age of 51. He studied economics at Columbia University, where he received his Ph.D. During his tenure at Yale, Okun was appointed to President John Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisors, and remained in this position under President Lyndon B. Johnson as well.



As a Keynesian economist, Okun advocated for using fiscal policy to control inflation and stimulate employment. He first proposed the relationship between unemployment and a country's GDP in the 1960s. In general, Okun's findings demonstrated that when unemployment falls, the production of a country will increase.



Many years later, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis has defined Okun's Law like this: "[Okun's Law] is intended to tell us how much of a country’s gross domestic product (GDP) may be lost when the unemployment rate is above its natural rate."



The logic is fairly straightforward. The amount of output that an economy produces depends on the amount of labor (or the number of people employed) in the production process; when there is more labor involved in the production process, there is more output (and vice versa).



In Okun's original statement of his law, an economy experiences a one percentage point increase in unemployment for every three percentage point decrease GDP from its long-run level (also called potential GDP). Similarly, a three percentage point increase in GDP from its long-run level is associated with a one percentage point decrease in unemployment. Potential GDP is the level of output that can be achieved when all resources (land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurial ability) are fully employed.






Despite the name, most economists consider Okun's law closer to a rule of thumb.


   Predictions of Okun's Law  

Okun's Law might be better characterized as a "rule of thumb" because it is based on empirical observation of data, rather than a conclusion derived from a theoretical prediction. Okun's Law is an approximation because there are other factors that impact output, such as capacity utilization and hours worked. This also explains why there isn't a one-to-one relationship between changes in output and changes in unemployment.



For example, Okun also estimated that a three percentage point increase in GDP from its long-run level corresponded to a 0.5 percentage point increase in the labor force participation rate, a 0.5 percentage point increase in hours worked per employee, and a one percentage point increase in labor productivity (output per worker per hour). This would leave the remaining one percentage point to be the change in the unemployment rate.



The relationship between unemployment and GDP (or GNP) varies by country. In industrialized nations with labor markets that are less flexible than those of the United States, such as France and Germany, the same percentage change in GNP has a smaller effect on the unemployment rate than it does in the United States.


   Does Okun’s Law Hold True?  

While Okun's Law has proven to be true at certain times throughout history, there have also been conditions where it has not held true. The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City conducted a 2007 review of Okun's Law by looking at quarterly changes in unemployment and comparing that data to quarterly growth in real output.



According to their findings, Okun's Law was largely accurate, although there were many periods of instability where unemployment did not change as the formula predicted. The study concluded that “Okun’s law is not a tight relationship,” but that it “predicts that growth slowdowns typically coincide with rising unemployment.”



The review found a negative correlation between quarterly changes in employment and productivity, although the coefficient of that relationship tended to vary.



In other examinations, Okun's law held up better than researchers expected. Although early GDP figures suggested that the Great Recession was a departure from Okun's Law, later revisions to those figures largely confirmed the law's predictions.



"Okun’s law is a simple statistical correlation, yet it has held up surprisingly well over time," wrote researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Nevertheless, they concluded, "the relationship between output and unemployment suggested by Okun’s law remained remarkably similar to previous deep recessions."






Okun's coefficient is a number that represents the expected change in unemployment associated with a 1% increase in GDP. This figure varies from one country to another.


   Shortfalls of Okun's Law  

While economists broadly accept that there is a relationship between productivity and employment as set out in Okun's law, there is no agreement on the exact magnitude of that relationship. Moreover, there are many other variables that can also impact productivity or employment rates, making it difficult to set accurate forecasts using only Okun's law.



For this reason, some economists say that Okun's law has limited value as a forecasting tool, even if they accept the underlying relationship. An economic commentary by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland found "rolling instability" in the accuracy of the law's predictions, with several time periods where the observed change was many times larger than what Okun's law would predict.



Moreover, this held true with several variations of Okun's law, suggesting that the problem is not merely one of measurement. Because of this instability, the Cleveland Fed concluded that "if a rule of thumb has a lot of exceptions, it's not much of a rule."




What Is the Okun’s Law Equation?
There are several versions of Okun's law, and the equation is slightly different for each. One of the simplest forms uses the formula: U = a + b x GWhere U represents the change in the unemployment rate between one quarter and the next, G represents the growth in real GDP for that quarter, and b represents Okun's coefficient, or the slope of the relationship between GDP growth and unemployment.




How Useful Is Okun’s Law?
While most economists accept the relationship between employment and output, there have been many periods where observed data departed from the predictions of the model. A review by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City found that the relationship between unemployment and productivity tends to be unstable over longer time horizons, although Okun's law may still be useful to policymakers so long as they take these instabilities into account.




Does Okun’s Law Still Work?
Okun's law is an observation about the statistical correlation between unemployment levels and overall productivity. While there have been many times when these variables did not behave as Okun's law predicts, the rule appears to hold true overall. A 2014 review by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco finds that, despite cyclical variations, the rule "has held up surprisingly well over time."




Is Okun’s Law Inaccurate?
Despite the name, most economists consider Okun's law closer to a "rule of thumb" than a hard and fast law of economics. There have also been many periods where the observed changes were larger or smaller than what Okun's law would predict. Nonetheless, the underlying relationship has largely held true, despite these variations.


   The Bottom Line  

Okun's law is an observation that a 1% change in unemployment tends to accompany a change in GDP of about 2-3%. However, it would be a mistake to rely on this rule for precise economic forecasting. Although the relationship between employment and output usually behaves as expected, there are many confounding variables that could lead to unexpected results.
What Is the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) Program?  

The Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program is the official name for Social Security income in the United States. The federal OASDI tax noted on your paycheck funds this comprehensive federal benefits program that provides benefits to retired adults and people with disabilities—and to their spouses, children, and survivors. The goal of the program is to partially replace any income that is lost due to old age, the death of a spouse (or qualifying ex-spouse), or disability.





Key Takeaways

The Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance program is the official name for Social Security income benefits.The program provides benefits to retired adults and people with disabilities.OASDI taxes, also known as FICA payroll taxes, fund the program from workers' wages.Individuals and employers contribute half of the Social Security taxes while self-employed individuals are responsible for both portions.The amount of an individual’s monthly payment is based on their earnings during their working years.


   Understanding the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) Program  

The U.S. Social Security program (including both retirement and disability income) was ushered in through the Social Security Act, signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on August 14, 1935, when the U.S. economy was in the depths of the Great Depression. The program has grown massively over the decades, along with the U.S. population and economy.



In 1940, about 222,000 people received an average monthly benefit of $22.60. As of mid-2022, that number was approximately 70.61 million. For 2022, the average monthly benefit has been $1,681 and is expected to jump to $1,827 in 2023. This amount is reviewed annually and adjusted for inflation.



It is the largest such system in the world and is also the biggest expenditure in the federal budget, projected to cost around $1.3 trillion in 2023. Nearly nine out of 10 individuals age 65 and older receive Social Security benefits, according to the Social Security Administration (SSA). Social Security calculates your average indexed monthly earnings (AIME) during the 35 years in which you earned the most.


   OASDI Payroll Tax  

Payments to qualifying persons are funded through OASDI taxes, which are payroll taxes collected by the government that are known as FICA taxes (short for Federal Insurance Contributions Act) and SECA taxes (short for Self-Employed Contributions Act). In 2022 and 2023, the Social Security tax rate is 6.2% for employees and 12.4% for the self-employed. The combined federal tax rates for Social Security + Medicare are 7.65% and 15.3% for employees and self-employed, respectively.



These revenues are kept in two trust funds:



The Old-Age and Survivors Insurance (ASI) Trust Fund for retirement
The Disability Insurance (DI) Trust Fund for disability



These trust funds pay out the benefits and invest the remainder of the revenue they collect.






There is a cap on annual earnings for which you pay Social Security tax. The maximum earnings subject to the tax is $147,000 in 2022 and $160,200 in 2023. Income above that amount is not subject to further OASDI tax.


   OASDI Program Criteria  

The OASDI program provides payments to people who meet certain criteria. For old-age payments, money is paid to qualifying persons starting as early as age 62. Full retirement age depends on birth date and is 67 for everyone born in 1960 or later. Qualifying persons who wait until age 70 (but no later) to begin collecting benefits can collect higher, maximum benefits due to delayed retirement credits.



Payments are calculated based upon people's wages earned while they were of working age. Survivors' payments are made to surviving spouses or eligible children of deceased workers or retired workers. Disability payments are made to eligible persons who are no longer able to participate in a substantially gainful activity and who meet additional criteria.



To qualify for retirement benefits, a worker must be fully insured. A worker can become fully insured by accumulating credits (also called quarters) of coverage. Credits or quarters are accumulated based on covered wages earned for a particular period. One-quarter of coverage is awarded to a worker for every $1,510 earned in 2022 and $1,640 in 2023. The dollar amount is indexed every few years for inflation.






A worker can earn up to four credits or quarters of coverage per year, and 40 credits are needed to qualify for Social Security income benefits.




Is OASDI Tax Mandatory?
Yes, federal law requires that workers and employers contribute to the OASDI fund through Social Security taxation on income up to $147,000, for 2022 and $160,200 in 2023.




At What Age Is Social Security No Longer Taxed?
Social security taxation is levied over your entire working life. As long as you receive a paycheck or earn income for yourself, you must pay it. You can start claiming Social Security Income when you reach age 62. Keep in mind that the full retirement age is 65 if you were born before 1960, or else age 67.




How Can I Avoid Paying OASDI Tax?
There are very few exceptions and exemptions to OASDI taxes, including clergy of certain religious groups and some types of nonresident aliens. Note, however, that these individuals are also then ineligible from receiving social security payments.


   The Bottom Line  

The OASDI Program is the federal benefits program, better known as Social Security. It covers both retirement income for individuals and surviving spouses, as well as disability income. Workers pay into the program through a tax levied each year on a portion of their income at a rate of 6.2% for employees (or 12.4% for self-employed individuals) on income up to $147,000 for 2022 and $160,200 in 2023. That means that up to a maximum of $9,932.40 will be paid into OASDI by employees. OASDI then is paid out as income benefits to retired or disabled individuals at a rate that is adjusted regularly for inflation.
What Is Old Economy?  

Old economy is a term used to describe the blue-chip sector that enjoyed substantial growth during the early parts of the last century as industrialization expanded around the world. These sectors do not rely heavily on technology or technological advancement, but use processes that have been around for hundreds of years. Even with the rise of the new economy, old economy companies still experience growth, albeit at a declining rate.


   Old Economy vs. New Economy  

Old economy differs from new economy in that it relies on traditional methods of doing business rather than leveraging new cutting-edge technology. This traditional economic system dates back to the Industrial Revolution and revolves around producing goods as opposed to the exchange of information. Common goods are valued by measurable factors such as operating expenses and scarcity of the product.





Key Takeaways

Old economy refers to industries that have not changed significantly despite advances in technology.Examples of old economy industries include steel, agriculture, and manufacturing.Climate change and new technologies impact the old economy, but most of the processes have been the same for hundreds of years.There is a limit to how much new technology can help old economy industries, which have roots that trace back to economic systems of the industrial revolution.



Although firms in the old economy have adopted new technology, there is a limit to how much innovation can assist the industry. A large portion of production in manufacturing and agriculture, for example, benefited from technology, but still require human supervision and even manual labor to proceed. 



In fact, the notion that it is old economy versus new economy continues to prove incorrect. Instead, it's a combination of the two. Blue-chip companies must innovate on the traditional methods of operating that created scale and influence during previous generations. As the old economy evolved, it laid the foundation for what would soon become the new economy.



While the old economy continues to adopt new technologies, several roadblocks may hinder traditional institutions from making further progress. In many ways, old economy companies didn't need to think outside the box as they commanded sizable market shares for multiple decades. But today, they must quickly replace established practices with new technologies to meet modern demands and ignite productivity.


   Examples of Old Economy  

Members of the old economy operate in traditional sectors such as steel, manufacturing, and agriculture, many of which do not depend entirely on technology. Despite losing market share to new economy companies, they still employ a large swathe of the population and contribute a significant portion to gross domestic product (GDP).



In financial markets, investors often equate old economy companies with blue-chip stocks, which offer stable earnings growth, consistent returns, and modest dividend payments. However, examples of old economy go beyond that to include small business, such as bread making, horse farms, and landscaping.



Meanwhile, external shocks such as climate change pose an issue for multiple sectors of the old economy. Farming, in particular, could experience substantial variation in crop production if weather conditions continue to change. Lastly, the energy sector, which is another example of an old economy industry, is rapidly evolving to include newer technologies such as solar, wind, and hydro.
What Is the Old Lady?  

The "Old Lady" is an eighteenth-century nickname for the Bank of England. It is a short version of the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street, a reference to the bank’s address in the middle of London.





Key Takeaways

The Old Lady, or the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street, is a colloquial nickname for the Bank of England.This nickname originates from a 1797 satirical cartoon regarding the suspension of gold redemption under the Restriction Act of 1797.The nickname has since appeared in cartoons, newspapers, books, and common usage to refer to the Bank.


   Understanding the Old Lady  

The Old Lady, as a nickname for the Bank of England, originates in a James Gillray political cartoon from 1797. The cartoon, “Political Ravishment, or The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street in Danger!” depicts a woman in a dress of one- and two-pound notes sitting on a chest marked “Bank of England.” A man, Prime Minister William Pitt, forcibly kisses the woman while reaching for the gold coins in her pocket. The woman yells, “Murder! murder! Rape! murder! O you Villain! what have I kept my Honor untainted so long, to have it broke up by you at last? O Murder! Rape! Ravishment! Ruin! Ruin! Ruin!!!”



The cartoon comments on the then recent decision by the Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger that, under the Bank Restriction Act of 1797, the bank would suspend redemption of notes for gold and begin making payments to customers exclusively in paper money rather than coins. The Act was passed in response to an incipient run on the Bank following a period of heavy paper note issuance to finance the war with France and triggered by the landing of French forces near the town of Fishguard.



The historical moment represented a test of the public’s confidence in paper currency as well as of the political power of the prime minister to impose his prerogatives. This was the first time in the Bank’s history that its notes were no longer redeemable in gold. Leaders of the opposition Whig party in the Parliament characterized the Act as an outrageous abrogation of private contract and likened the Bank to an elderly woman seduced by a swindler (i.e. Pitt the Younger). This comparison then became the basis for Gillray’s cartoon.



This caricature of the Bank of England as an old woman stuck, and would repeatedly appear in political cartoons, newspaper headlines, and common financial vernacular.


   History of the Bank of England  

The Bank of England, now the central bank of the entire United Kingdom, began in 1694 and has provided the blueprint for most central banks now operating across the globe. Initially the Bank of England operated as a retail bank as well. The bank suffered its first crisis in 1720, when the South Sea Company financed some of Britain’s national debt and acquired trading rights in what is now South America. A price surge in South Sea Company stock ensued. The stock eventually crashed, and many lost their fortunes.



The bank moved to Threadneedle Street in 1734 from its original location on Walbrook.



Another crisis in 1825 spurred the Bank of England to open branches across the country to exert more control over the currency. In 1866, the Bank of England refused to bail out discount house Overend Gurney after it collapsed under the weight of bad loans. The crisis eventually expanded the role of the Old Lady as a lender to failing financial institutions.
What Is an Oligopoly?  

An oligopoly is a type of market structure that exists within an economy. In an oligopoly, there is a small number of firms that control the market. A key characteristic of an oligopoly is that none of these firms can keep the other(s) from having significant influence over the market. The concentration ratio measures the market share of the largest firms. There is no precise upper limit to the number of firms in an oligopoly, but the number must be low enough that the actions of one firm significantly influence the others. An oligopoly is different from a monopoly, which is a market with only one producer.





Key Takeaways

An oligopoly is a market structure wherein a small number of producers work to restrict output and/or fix prices so they can achieve above-normal market returns.Economic, legal, and technological factors can contribute to the formation and maintenance, or dissolution, of oligopolies.The major difficulty that oligopolies face is the prisoner's dilemma that each member faces, which encourages each member to cheat.Government policy can discourage or encourage oligopolistic behavior, and firms in mixed economies often seek government blessing for ways to limit competition.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Oligopolies  

Market structures come in different forms and sizes. The term is used to describe the distinctions between industries, which are made up of different companies that sell their products and services. Most market structures aim for perfect competition, which is a theoretical construct that doesn't actually exist, As such, there are other structures that



These market structures are made up of a small number of companies within an industry that controls the market. Firms in an oligopoly set prices, whether collectively—in a cartel—or under the leadership of one firm, rather than taking prices from the market. Profit margins are thus higher than they would be in a more competitive market. 



Some of the barriers to entry (that prevent new players from entering the market) in an oligopoly include economies of scale, regulatory barriers, accessing supply and distribution channels, capital requirements, and brand loyalty.



Oligopolies in history include steel manufacturers, oil companies, railroads, tire manufacturing, grocery store chains, and wireless carriers. The economic and legal concern is that an oligopoly can block new entrants, slow innovation, and increase prices, all of which harm consumers.


   Special Considerations  

Governments sometimes respond to oligopolies with laws against price-fixing and collusion. Yet, a cartel can price fix if they operate beyond the reach or with the blessing of governments. Oligopolies that exist in mixed economies often seek out and lobby for favorable government policy to operate under the regulation or even direct supervision of government agencies.



The main problem that firms in an oligopoly face is that each firm has an incentive to cheat. if all firms in the oligopoly agree to jointly restrict supply and keep prices high, then each firm stands to capture substantial business from the others by breaking the agreement and undercutting the others. Such competition can be waged through prices, or through simply the individual company expanding its own output brought to market. 






Companies in an oligopoly benefit from price-fixing, setting prices collectively, or under the direction of one firm in the bunch, rather than relying on free-market forces to do so.


   Oligopoly Characteristics  

Oligopolies are considered stable. One of the main reasons why they are is because participating firms need to see the benefits of collaboration over the costs of economic competition, then agree to not compete and instead agree on the benefits of cooperation.



The firms sometimes find creative ways to avoid the appearance of price-fixing, such as using phases of the moon. Price-fixing is the act of setting prices, rather than letting them be determined by the free-market forces. Another approach is for firms to follow a recognized price leader so that when the leader raises prices, the others will follow.



The conditions that enable oligopolies to exist include high entry costs in capital expenditures, legal privilege (license to use wireless spectrum or land for railroads), and a platform that gains value with more customers, such as social media.



The global tech and trade transformation has changed some of these conditions. For instance, offshore production and the rise of mini-mills have affected the steel industry. In the office software application space, Microsoft (MSFT) was targeted by Google Docs, which Google funded using cash from its web search business.


   Oligopolies and Game Theory  

Game theorists have developed models for these scenarios, which form a sort of prisoner's dilemma. When costs and benefits are balanced so that no firm wants to break from the group, it is considered the Nash equilibrium state for oligopolies. This can be achieved by contractual or market conditions, legal restrictions, or strategic relationships between members of the oligopoly that enable the punishment of cheaters.



Maintaining an oligopoly and coordinating action among buyers and sellers in general on the market involves shaping the payoffs to various prisoner's dilemmas and related coordination games that repeat over time.



As a result, many of the same institutional factors that facilitate the development of market economies by reducing prisoner's dilemma problems among market participants, such as secure enforcement of contracts, cultural conditions of high trust and reciprocity, and laissez-faire economic policy, might also potentially help encourage and sustain oligopolies.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an Oligopoly  
  Advantages  

One of the main benefits of having an oligopoly is that competition is very limited. That's because there are very few players in the market. Since there are few competitors, an oligopoly allows those who participate to net a higher amount of profits.



Customer demand is often greater in this type of market structure. This is commonly due to the fact that there are better products and services that are on the market. As such, firms don't skimp on quality as they want to retain or increase brand loyalty.



Customers can expect better customer service and better pricing for products and services from the firms in an oligopoly because of the small number of participants.


  Disadvantages  

Oligopolies come with higher barriers to entry for new participants. This means that it can be difficult to enter the market because of the high costs associated with doing business, the regulatory environment, and the problems that arise when it comes to accessing supply and distribution channels.



Because of the lack of competition, there may be very little incentive to innovate product and service offerings. With no diversity in offerings, consumers remain loyal to what they know best.



Although there may be more quality products on the market, consumers often have little choice available to them. This means they can only rely on a small pool of goods and services on which to spend their money.





Pros

Limited competition
Higher profits for companies
Greater consumer demand
Higher quality products and services
Better customer service and pricing



Cons

High barriers to entry for new participants
Lack of innovation
Very little choice for consumers





   Example of an Oligopoly  

There are many examples of oligopolies in the market. But one of the major examples of a global oligopoly is the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The organization was founded in Baghdad in 1960 with five countries but expanded to 13 oil-producing countries in 1975.



One of the main reasons why OPEC is considered an oligopoly is because it has no overarching authority. Every member nation within the group also has a substantial portion of the group's market share. These countries also have a great deal of power together (not separately) when it comes to supply and demand issues and pricing. So when the group lowers its supply as demand drops, prices rise. The opposite is true when demand rises.




What Are Some Negative Effects of an Oligopoly?
An oligopoly is when a few companies exert significant control over a given market. Together, these companies may control prices by colluding with each other, ultimately providing uncompetitive prices in the market. Among other detrimental effects of an oligopoly include limiting new entrants in the market and decreased innovation. Oligopolies have been found in the oil industry, railroad companies, wireless carriers, and big tech.




What Is an Example of a Current Oligopoly?
One measure that shows if an oligopoly is present is the concentration ratio, which calculates the size of companies in comparison to their industry. Instances where a high concentration ratio is present include mass media. In the U.S., for example, the sector is dominated by just five companies: NBC Universal; Walt Disney; Time Warner; Viacom CBS; and News Corporation—even as streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime begin to encroach on this market. Meanwhile, within big tech, two companies control smartphone operating systems: Google Android and Apple iOS.




Is the U.S. Airline Industry an Oligopoly?
With just four companies controlling nearly two-thirds of all domestic flights in the U.S. as of 2021, it has been purported that the airline industry is an oligopoly. These four companies are Delta Airlines, United Airlines Holdings, Southwest Airlines, and American Airlines. According to a report compiled by the White House, "reduced competition contributes to increasing fees like baggage and cancellation fees. These fees are often raised in lockstep, demonstrating a lack of meaningful competitive pressure, and are often hidden from consumers at the point of purchase." Interestingly, in 1978, The Airline Deregulation Act was imposed, which stripped away the Civil Aeronautics Board the ability to regulate the industry. Prior to this time, the airline industry operated much like a public utility, while fare prices had declined 20 years before the deregulation was introduced. 


   The Bottom Line  

There is no such thing as perfect competition in the market. But there are different market structures, including oligopolies. These types of markets are characterized by a small number of participating firms that work together to set prices. Companies benefit because there is very little competition while consumers are able to choose from better quality products and services.
Oligopsony: An Overview  

An oligopsony is a market for a product or service which is dominated by a few large buyers. The concentration of demand in just a few parties gives each substantial power over the sellers and can effectively keep prices down.



The opposite effect can be seen in an oligopoly. It is a market that is dominated by a few sellers, who can keep prices high in the absence of competition from alternative sources of supply.


   Understanding the Oligopsony  

The fast-food industry is a good example of an oligopsony. A small number of large buyers including McDonald's, Burger King, and Wendy's buys a huge amount of the meat produced by American ranchers. That gives the industry the ability to dictate the price they are willing to pay.





Key Takeaways

An oligopsony concentrates the market for a product in the hands of a few big players.The buyers dominate the market, keeping prices down and wielding considerable influence over the industry.The supermarket industry is emerging as an oligopsony with global reach.



Cocoa is a less obvious example of an oligopsony. Just three firms, including Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland, and Barry Callebaut, buy most of the world's cocoa bean production, which mostly originates with small farmers in third-world countries.



American tobacco growers supply an oligopsony of cigarette makers. Three companies, including Altria, Brown & Williamson, and Lorillard Tobacco Company, buy nearly 90% of all US-grown tobacco and supplement it with tobacco produced in other countries.


  The Publishing Oligopsony  

In American book publishing, consolidation has led to the emergence of just five dominant publishers. Known as the Big Five, they account for about two-thirds of all books published. 



This is not immediately evident to readers. Each of the publishing giants has absorbed or created a number of specialized imprints that cater to different market segments and often carry the names of formerly independent publishers.



Imprints create the illusion that there are many publishers. But they coordinate within the parent company to prevent internal competition for manuscripts from popular authors. 



The publishing oligopsony also tends to depress advances paid to authors and creates pressure for authors to cater to the tastes of the publishers.






Producers caught in an oligopsony can get caught up in "racing to the bottom," with an impact on price and quality.



In recent years, supermarkets have begun to emerge as an oligopsony. The largest parent company in the industry is now Kroger's, which operates chains including Dillons, Pay-Less Super Markets, Ralphs, and City Market, among many others. The German company Aldi Nord owns not only Aldi's but Trader Joe's.



This emerging oligopsony is reaching developed economies around the world. As a result, they increasingly influence not only price but what crops are grown and how they are processed and packaged.



The impact of this oligopsony reaches deep into the lives and livelihoods of agricultural workers around the world. Their influence has also forced many suppliers who couldn't compete out of business. In some countries, this has led to allegations of unethical and illegal conduct.


   Oligopoly vs. Oligopsony  

In an oligopoly, the control is in the hands of a few sellers. As long as they stay firm on prices, the buyers have little negotiating room.



An oligopsony market sees frequent price wars as each player works to entice a buyer's business. That effectively drives the price a down and the quantity up.



Getting caught in an oligopsony is known as "racing to the bottom." Sellers lose the power to control supply and demand.
What Is an Ombudsman?  

An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government, who investigates complaints (usually lodged by private citizens) against businesses, financial institutions, universities, government departments, or other public entities, and attempts to resolve the conflicts or concerns raised, either by mediation or by making recommendations.



Ombudsmen may be called by different names in some countries, including titles such as a public advocate or national defender.





Key Takeaways

An ombudsman investigates complaints leveled against businesses and other organizations, including the government.Depending on the jurisdiction, an ombudsman's decision may or may not be legally binding.However, even if not binding, the decision typically carries considerable weight.In the U.S., members of Congress serve as ombudsmen.The processing time for a complaint can be between 90 days and nine months, depending on the type and complexity of the complaint.


   How an Ombudsman Works  

An ombudsman typically has a broad mandate that allows them to address overarching concerns in the public, and sometimes the private, sector. That said, sometimes an ombudsman’s mandate extends over only a specific sector of society—for example, a children’s ombudsman may be tasked with protecting the rights of the young people of a nation, while, in Belgium, the various linguistic and regional communities have their own ombudsmen.



In the United States, members of the United States Congress serve as ombudsmen at the national level, representing the interests of their constituents and maintaining staff tasked with advocating for constituents faced with administrative difficulties, especially those caused by maladministration.






An ombudsman is free for consumers to use and is typically paid via levies and case fees.



Ombudsmen are in place across a wide variety of countries and organizations within those countries. They may be appointed at a national or local level, and are often found within large organizations, too. Ombudsmen may focus exclusively on and deal with complaints regarding a particular organization or public office, or they may have wider ranges.



Depending on the jurisdiction, an ombudsman's decision may or may not be legally binding. However, even if not binding, the decision typically carries considerable weight.


   What Are the Types of Ombudsmen?  

While the general duty of the ombudsman is the same, the types of grievances they handle and resolution services they provide may differ according to their appointment. Ombudsmen can be found in organizations, governments, schools, and other institutions.


  Industry Ombudsman  

An industry ombudsman, such as a telecommunications or insurance ombudsman, may deal with consumer complaints about unfair treatment the consumer received from a company that operates within that industry. Often—and especially at the government level—an ombudsman will seek to identify systemic issues that can lead to widespread rights violations or poor quality of service to the public by the government or institution in question.


  Organizational Ombudsman  

A large public entity or other organization may have its own ombudsman—an example being the California Department of Health Care Services. Depending on the appointment, an ombudsman may investigate specific complaints about the services or other interaction a consumer has had with the entity concerned.



An ombudsman within an organization may also have a primary function of dealing with internal issues, such as complaints by employees, or, if an educational institution, complaints by its students.


  Classical Ombudsman  

Ombudsmen duties may be more wide-ranging nationally. For example, some countries have ombudsmen in place to deal with issues such as corruption or abuses of power by public officials. Furthermore, some countries have ombudsmen whose main function is to protect human rights within those countries.



While an ombudsman is usually publicly appointed, they will typically have a large degree of independence and autonomy in fulfilling their function. This is to enable the official to act in a fair and impartial way to all parties involved in a complaint.


  Advocate Ombudsman  

An advocate ombudsman, just as the name suggests, advocates for people who have filed grievances or for those with whom the grievances concern. They can be found in the private or public sectors but are typically found championing for long-term care residents, aging adults, the underserved, and those who cannot advocate for themselves.


  Media Ombudsman  

A media or news ombudsman who receives complaints about news reporting. The media ombudsman promotes accurate and transparent news reporting in an environment that fosters trust with the general public. Having a media ombudsman can help media outlets avoid lengthy and costly litigation involving false reporting and claims of defamation.



Media ombudsmen work with journalists, editors, and other media professionals to investigate and respond to complaints. Often, to promote transparency in operations, they publish their response to a broader audience.






People may complain to a media ombudsmen if they feel that a broadcast is particularly lewd or offensive.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an Ombudsman  

Ombudsmen provide a channel for people to submit complaints against institutions (e.g., governments, businesses, organizations, news outlets, and schools) without influence from the accused. They conduct fair and unbiased investigations at no cost to the complainant, providing resolutions or mediation services.



Where corruption is present, ombudsmen can investigate, expose, and help correct illegal behaviors. Ombudsmen help prevent governments from abusing their power, such as imposing unfair laws and exerting controls over their citizens without constraints. They also help restore confidence in the system and its ability to fairly address issues.



In addition to investigating and providing resolutions, ombudsmen serve as a source of information about policies and procedures. Serving as an unbiased party, they are able to promote communication between parties and clarify issues that stifle progress.



On the other hand, an ombudsman offers no benefit when their work produces lackluster or no results. A lack of dedication and service erodes the trust of the complainant and the audience they are appointed to serve. If the claim is complex, receiving a quick resolution is unlikely. Investigations take time and may require additional resources. Despite the recommendation or resolution, the institution has the final say on how to resolve the issue.



Unlike lawyers, ombudsmen are impartial—except in cases where they advocate for the rights of others. Some are familiar with or have legal training; however, they cannot provide legal advice. If the complainant disapproves of the resolution, they may pursue other actions, such as suing the institution. An ombudsman cannot, however, investigate a case after it is submitted to a court.




Pros and Cons of Ombudsmen

Pros

Facilitates customer or public complaints
Unbiased and objective
Can restore and maintain confidence in organizations or institutions



Cons

Poor performance can erode trust
Cannot provide legal advice
Complex issues can take a lot of time to resolve









If legal action is later pursued for the same complaint, the ombudsman's suggested remedy can influence judicial decisions.




What Is the Role of an Ombudsman?
An ombudsman is someone appointed to investigate complaints against an institution and seek resolutions to those complaints. Some have full authority to investigate and resolve issues, and some have limited capacity to only investigate and provide suggested resolutions to a governing authority or the institution subject to the complaint.




Which Type of Ombudsman Do I Need?
If seeking the services of an ombudsman, the type you need is dependent on the nature of your grievance and the institution which has aggrieved you. If the complainee is a member of an organization, seek an ombudsman dedicated to resolving issues for that organization and likewise for other entities.If in the UK, Ireland; or British Crown Dependencies or Overseas Territories, the Ombudsman Association is a great starting point for finding an ombudsman for your particular situation. In the U.S., the United States Ombudsman Association provides a list of websites for public ombudsmen in the United States and parts of Canada.




How Long Does an Ombudsman Investigation Take?
Investigations conducted by ombudsmen vary. The length is determined by the type and complexity of the complaint, available resources to resolve the complaint, as well as other factors. If simple, it could be six to eight weeks.




What Powers Does an Ombudsman Have?
An ombudsman has the power to investigate and file complaints against otherwise influential organizations or high-ranking officials. They often have the power to request key documents, interview individuals, and order a legal investigation if necessary. If agreed to, ombudsmen rulings are legally binding.
What Is Omega?  

Omega is a measure of options pricing, similar to the option Greeks that measure various characteristics of the option itself. Omega measures the percentage change in an option's value with respect to the percentage change in the underlying price. In this way, it measures the leverage of an options position.





Key Takeaways

The third derivative of the option price, Omega measures the effect of an option's leverage.Omega is not always referenced among option Greeks.This variable is used most often by option market makers or other sophisticated, high-volume option traders.


   Understanding Omega  

Traders use options for many reasons, but one of the most important is leverage. A small investment in a call option, for example, allows the trader to control a larger dollar value of the underlying security. In other words, a call option trading at $25 per contract could control 100 shares of a stock trading at $50 per share with a value of $5,000. The holder has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase those 100 shares at a specific price (the strike price) by a certain date.



Omega is the third derivative of the option price, and the derivative of gamma. It is also known as elasticity.



To see leverage in action, assume Ford Motor Co. (F) shares increase 7% in a given period and a Ford call option increases 3% in that same period. The omega of the call option is 3 ÷ 7, or 0.43. This would imply that for every 1% Ford stock moves, the call option will move 0.43%.



The formula is as follows:


















Ω


=




Percent Change in 


V




Percent Change in 


S


















where:
















V


=


Price of the option
















S


=


 Underlying price







\begin{aligned} &\Omega = \frac{\text{Percent Change in }V}{\text{Percent Change in }S}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &V = \text{Price of the option}\\ &S = \text{ Underlying price}\\ \end{aligned}


​Ω=Percent Change in SPercent Change in V​where:V=Price of the optionS= Underlying price​


   Options Greeks  

Omega is calculated based on two of the standard option Greeks, delta and gamma. This set of metrics provides a sense of an options contract's risk and reward with respect to different variables. The most common option Greeks are:



Delta (Δ): Change in option value with respect to change in underlying price.
Gamma (Γ): The derivative of delta, it measures the change in delta with respect to the change in the underlying price. 
Omega (Ω): Percent change in option price with respect to percent change in underlying price.
Theta (Θ): Change in option value with respect to change in time to expiration.
Rho (ρ): Change in option value with respect to change in risk-free interest rate.
Vega (v): Change in option value with respect to change in underlying volatility. (Vega is not the name of a Greek letter.)


   Relationship to Delta  

An option's gamma is also the rate of change (ROC) in its delta and may be called the delta of the delta.



The equation for omega can also be expressed:








Ω


=




∂


V




∂


S




×



S


V




\Omega=\frac{\partial V}{\partial S}\times\frac{S}{V}


Ω=∂S∂V​×VS​



Given that the equation for delta is:








Δ


=




∂


V




∂


S





\Delta=\frac{\partial V}{\partial S}


Δ=∂S∂V​



omega can be expressed in terms of delta as:








Ω


=


Δ


×



S


V




\Omega=\Delta\times\frac{S}{V}


Ω=Δ×VS​
What Is an Omnibus Account?  

An omnibus account allows for managed trades of more than one person, and allows for anonymity of the persons in the account. Omnibus accounts are used by futures commission merchants. Transactions within the account are carried out in the name of the broker, protecting the individual identities of the two or more people invested in the omnibus account. The broker managing the omnibus account typically has the ability to execute trades on behalf of investors with funds inside the omnibus account. Trades are made in the name of the broker, although trade confirmations and statements are provided to customers within the account. 


   The Basics of an Omnibus Account  

Omnibus accounts refer to accounts that hold more than one item (omni- meaning 'many' and -bus meaning 'business'). A minimum of two individuals are required to create an omnibus account. All transactions occurring within an omnibus account will appear under the name of the associated broker, leaving the details of individual investors private.



An omnibus account is normally overseen by a futures manager. The futures manager uses the funds in the account to complete trades on behalf of the participating individual investors. This method is similar to when an investor leaves stock in a broker's name, allowing the broker to hold the majority of the responsibility while also allowing them to take fast actions when required.



Aside from performing trades, the fund manager may also perform other actions designed to maintain the value of the account. In exchange, the futures manager charges fees or commissions to compensate for taking on the responsibility of these tasks.





Key Takeaways

An omnibus account allows for managed trades of more than one person, and allows for anonymity of the persons in the account. Omnibus accounts allow more efficient transactions to take place, since the manager can act swiftly when market conditions call for it.Also, the manager's compensation is often tied to the performance of the omnibus account, adding incentive to have it perform well.For investors that want privacy, an omnibus account is beneficial.


   Omnibus Accounts and Foreign Markets  

If a country accepts an omnibus account from a foreign country, it becomes the host market. Depending on the host country involved, regulatory concerns may arise. Since the individual investors participating in the account aren't known, there is no way to determine the intents of the investors involved. The addition of foreign funds may destabilize a small host market if the omnibus account represents a very large sum of money. Because of this, some markets have banned omnibus accounts to defend against destabilization or potential market manipulation. Other countries welcome the accounts, seeing it as an ideal method for encouraging foreign investments into the host market.



An omnibus account can provide investors with access to foreign markets while maintaining a level of anonymity, although, omnibus accounts are not allowed in parts of the world.
What is the Omani Rial?  

The currency of Oman. The Omani rial is broken into smaller units, called baisa, and is found in both coin and banknote form. It is managed by the Central Bank of Oman.


   Understanding the Omani Rial (OMR)  

The Omani rial was created during the early 1970s, as a replacement to the Indian rupee and Maria Teresa Thaler. It was part of a modernization effort, undertaken in the wake of a rebellion. The currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, though the rate was adjusted in 1986.
What Is On Account?  

"On account" is an accounting term that denotes partial payment of an amount owed. On account is also used to denote the purchase/sale of goods or services on credit. On account can also be referred to as “on credit.”





Key Takeaways

"On account" is used in accounting to note partial payments or purchases made on credit.Purchases on account are purchases made on credit.On account also refers to payment on an account.


   How On Account Works  

On account can refer to purchases on account, but there are also other ways to use this notation.


  Purchases On Account  

When a customer or business makes a purchase on credit, a general ledger account known as accounts payable is created or the current one is increased. Accounts payable refers to the short-term debt that a company owes another entity during conducting business operations. As the company purchases more goods on credit, this account will increase. The account will decrease as the company pays off its outstanding bills.



Any purchases made with credit can be referred to as “purchased on account.” A business that owes another entity for goods or services rendered will record the total amount as a credit entry to increase accounts payable. The outstanding balance remains until cash is paid, in full, to the entity owed.



When payment is made against an account, such that the entry in the accounts payable of a company’s books is no longer outstanding, it is referred to as paid on account. Payments made on account decrease accounts payable as a debit entry to the account. Most lenders will accept payments on account.


  Example of Purchases On Account  

For example, if a business purchases $5,000 worth of merchandise on account, this refers to the purchase of the goods on credit and deferral of payment. The business will have an increase in its accounts payable of $5,000. This means that the business will owe $5,000 for the purchase of the merchandise since they have not rendered payment at the time the goods were delivered.


   Types of On Account  

On account can refer to several bills or debt settlement events. On account could refer to “payment on account” in which payment is made against a certain customer's account without any reference to a specific invoice.



Payments on account are often made for purchases on account where the customer has not yet received a bill or invoice. They are common in industries in which it is common for businesses to purchase goods and services on credit.


   Example of On Account  

For example, a customer has a $20,000 outstanding balance due to a vendor. The customer makes a $10,000 payment to the vendor with no reference attributed to an individual invoice. The payment made will be applied against the outstanding balance as a whole. At a later date, the payments can be partially or fully matched to the related invoice. Usually, customers are given a specific period in which to make full payment on a specific invoice, even when credit is extended.



It is very important, for accuracy of accounting, to keep accurate records of all accounts payable and accounts receivable, and to match payments on account with their relevant invoices as soon as can be done so. The maintenance of accurate records and the proper classification of payments allows accounting ledgers to be correctly reconciled at the end of the month, quarter, or year.
What Is On-Balance Volume (OBV)?  

On-balance volume (OBV) is a technical trading momentum indicator that uses volume flow to predict changes in stock price. Joseph Granville first developed the OBV metric in the 1963 book Granville's New Key to Stock Market Profits.



Granville believed that volume was the key force behind markets and designed OBV to project when major moves in the markets would occur based on volume changes. In his book, he described the predictions generated by OBV as "a spring being wound tightly." He believed that when volume increases sharply without a significant change in the stock's price, the price will eventually jump upward or fall downward.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021





Key Takeaways

On-balance volume (OBV) is a technical indicator of momentum, using volume changes to make price predictions.OBV shows crowd sentiment that can predict a bullish or bearish outcome.Comparing relative action between price bars and OBV generates more actionable signals than the green or red volume histograms commonly found at the bottom of price charts. 






   Formula for On-Balance Volume (OBV)  

















OBV


=



OBV



p


r


e


v




+



{






volume,







if close


>



close



p


r


e


v











0,







if close


=



close



p


r


e


v












−


volume,








if close


<



close



p


r


e


v
























where:
















OBV


=


Current on-balance volume level

















OBV



p


r


e


v




=


Previous on-balance volume level
















volume


=


Latest trading volume amount







\begin{aligned} &\text{OBV} = \text{OBV}_{prev} + \begin{cases} \text{volume,} & \text{if close} > \text{close}_{prev} \\ \text{0,} & \text{if close} = \text{close}_{prev} \\ -\text{volume,} & \text{if close} < \text{close}_{prev} \\ \end{cases} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{OBV} = \text{Current on-balance volume level} \\ &\text{OBV}_{prev} = \text{Previous on-balance volume level} \\ &\text{volume} = \text{Latest trading volume amount} \\ \end{aligned}


​OBV=OBVprev​+⎩⎨⎧​volume,0,−volume,​if close>closeprev​if close=closeprev​if close<closeprev​​where:OBV=Current on-balance volume levelOBVprev​=Previous on-balance volume levelvolume=Latest trading volume amount​


   Calculating On-Balance Volume  

On-balance volume provides a running total of an asset's trading volume and indicates whether this volume is flowing in or out of a given security or currency pair. The OBV is a cumulative total of volume (positive and negative). There are three rules implemented when calculating the OBV. They are:



1. If today's closing price is higher than yesterday's closing price, then: Current OBV = Previous OBV + today's volume



2. If today's closing price is lower than yesterday's closing price, then: Current OBV = Previous OBV - today's volume



3. If today's closing price equals yesterday's closing price, then: Current OBV = Previous OBV


   What Does OBV Tell You?  

The theory behind OBV is based on the distinction between smart money—namely, institutional investors—and less sophisticated retail investors. As mutual funds and pension funds begin to buy into an issue that retail investors are selling, volume may increase even as the price remains relatively level. Eventually, volume drives the price upward. At that point, larger investors begin to sell, and smaller investors begin buying.



Despite being plotted on a price chart and measured numerically, the actual individual quantitative value of OBV is not relevant. The indicator itself is cumulative, while the time interval remains fixed by a dedicated starting point, meaning the real number value of OBV arbitrarily depends on the start date. Instead, traders and analysts look to the nature of OBV movements over time; the slope of the OBV line carries all of the weight of analysis.



Analysts look to volume numbers on the OBV to track large, institutional investors. They treat divergences between volume and price as a synonym of the relationship between "smart money" and the disparate masses, hoping to showcase opportunities for buying against incorrect prevailing trends. For example, institutional money may drive up the price of an asset, then sell after other investors jump on the bandwagon.


   Example of How to Use OBV  

Below is a list of 10 days' worth of a hypothetical stock's closing price and volume:



Day one: closing price equals $10, volume equals 25,200 sharesDay two: closing price equals $10.15, volume equals 30,000 sharesDay three: closing price equals $10.17, volume equals 25,600 sharesDay four: closing price equals $10.13, volume equals 32,000 sharesDay five: closing price equals $10.11, volume equals 23,000 sharesDay six: closing price equals $10.15, volume equals 40,000 sharesDay seven: closing price equals $10.20, volume equals 36,000 sharesDay eight: closing price equals $10.20, volume equals 20,500 sharesDay nine: closing price equals $10.22, volume equals 23,000 sharesDay 10: closing price equals $10.21, volume equals 27,500 shares



As can be seen, days two, three, six, seven and nine are up days, so these trading volumes are added to the OBV. Days four, five and 10 are down days, so these trading volumes are subtracted from the OBV. On day eight, no changes are made to the OBV since the closing price did not change. Given the days, the OBV for each of the 10 days is:



Day one OBV = 0Day two OBV = 0 + 30,000 = 30,000Day three OBV = 30,000 + 25,600 = 55,600Day four OBV = 55,600 - 32,000 = 23,600Day five OBV = 23,600 - 23,000 = 600Day six OBV = 600 + 40,000 = 40,600Day seven OBV = 40,600 + 36,000 = 76,600Day eight OBV = 76,600Day nine OBV = 76,600 + 23,000 = 99,600Day 10 OBV = 99,600 - 27,500 = 72,100


   OBV vs. Accumulation/Distribution  

On-balance volume and the accumulation/distribution line are similar in that they are both momentum indicators that use volume to predict the movement of “smart money”. However, this is where the similarities end. In the case of on-balance volume, it is calculated by summing the volume on an up-day and subtracting the volume on a down-day.



The formula used to create the accumulation/distribution (Acc/Dist) line is quite different than the OBV shown above. The formula for the Acc/Dist, without getting too complicated, is that it uses the position of the current price relative to its recent trading range and multiplies it by that period's volume.


   Limitations of OBV  

One limitation of OBV is that it is a leading indicator, meaning that it may produce predictions, but there is little it can say about what has actually happened in terms of the signals it produces. Because of this, it is prone to produce false signals. It can therefore be balanced by lagging indicators. Add a moving average line to the OBV to look for OBV line breakouts; you can confirm a breakout in the price if the OBV indicator makes a concurrent breakout.



Another note of caution in using the OBV is that a large spike in volume on a single day can throw off the indicator for quite a while. For instance, a surprise earnings announcement, being added or removed from an index, or massive institutional block trades can cause the indicator to spike or plummet, but the spike in volume may not be indicative of a trend.




What Is Average Daily Trading Volume?
Average daily trading volume (ADTV) is the average amount of shares traded each day for a given stock. It can be a useful metric because high or low trading volume attracts different types of traders. Traders and investors can use ADTV to assess liquidity, analyze volatility, optimize trade execution, and manage risk. ADTV can be used alongside OBV and other indicators to evaluate the market's activity.




What's the Difference Between On-Balance Volume and Volume-Price Trend?
Volume-Price Trend (VPT) is similar to on-balance volume in that it measures the cumulative volume and provides traders with information about a security’s money flow. But whereas OBV looks at volume just according to whether the close was higher or lower, VPT looks at how much higher or lower it was. This helps determine a security’s price direction and strength of price change.




Is On-Balance Volume Leading or Lagging?
On-Balance Volume is a leading indicator: it produces predictions, but it doesn't provide specific information on exactly what happened or why. This can lead to wrong interpretations. OBV should be used alongside lagging indicators for better effectiveness.


   The Bottom Line  

On-balance volume (OBV) is a technical indicator that measures positive and negative volume flow and analyzes the trading direction. It shows as a single line that can provide insights into the intent of market players that investors can use to make trading decisions and identify where to buy or sell an asset. However, OBV doesn't provide specific information about the financial asset, which can lead to misinterpretations. Therefore, traders should balance OBV by using lagging indicators.
What Is On-Chain Governance?  

On-chain governance is a system for managing and implementing changes to cryptocurrency blockchains. In this type of governance, rules for instituting changes are encoded into the blockchain protocol. Developers propose changes through code updates and each node votes on whether to accept or reject the proposed change.





Key Takeaways

On-chain governance is a system for managing and implementing changes to cryptocurrency blockchains.On-chain governance includes rules for instituting changes that are encoded into the blockchain protocol.Developers propose changes through code updates and each node or participant votes on whether to accept or reject the proposed change.


   Understanding On-Chain Governance  

A blockchain network is a system that contains a distributed ledger similar to a shared database. Transactions are recorded on the blockchain and shared with all of the participants. Whenever a new transaction is conducted, a new block needs to be added to the blockchain. However, there are consensus protocols, which need to be followed for the transaction to be considered valid. Miners, who are also called nodes, verify the data to make sure it's accurate and that the parameters regarding the transaction have been satisfied. 



Once miners have completed their verification process, the results are submitted to the network. After review by other nodes or participants and consensus has been achieved, a new block is added to the network. Miners usually receive some type of compensation for their efforts, which is called a Proof of Work (PoW) system or process.


   Participants in On-Chain Governance  

Unlike informal governance systems, which use a combination of offline coordination and online code modifications to effect changes, on-chain governance systems work only online. Changes to a blockchain are proposed through code updates. Improvement proposals to make changes to the blockchain must be submitted by developers. A core group, consisting mostly of developers, is responsible for coordinating and achieving consensus between stakeholders. Typically, on-chain governance involves the following stakeholders:



Miners—who operate the nodes, which validate the transactionsDevelopers—who are responsible for core blockchain algorithmsUsers or participants—who use and invest in various cryptocurrencies



Stakeholders in the process are provided economic incentives to participate. For example, each node can earn a cut of overall transaction fees for voting, while developers are rewarded through alternate funding mechanisms.



The participants or nodes can vote to accept or decline the proposed change. However, not all nodes have equal voting power. Nodes with greater holdings of coins have more votes as compared to nodes that have a relatively lesser number of holdings. If the change is accepted, it is included in the blockchain and baselined. In some instances of on-chain governance implementation, the updated code may be rolled back to its version before a baseline, if the proposed change is unsuccessful.


   Types of On-Chain Governance  

Implementation of on-chain governance differs between various blockchains. For example, Tezos uses a form of self-amending ledger. Proposed changes are implemented to the coin's blockchain and rolled out onto a test version of the chain. If the planned changes are successful, they are finalized into a production version of the blockchain. If not, they are rolled back.



DFinity, a startup that is using blockchain to build what it claims will be the world's biggest virtual computer, unveiled a plan to adopt a hardcoded constitution on its network. The constitution triggers passive and active actions. An example of the former might be an increase in reward size for blocks while the latter might involve quarantining certain parts of the network for updates or rollbacks.



Current governance systems in Bitcoin and Ethereum are informal. They were designed with a decentralized ethos, first promulgated by Satoshi Nakamoto in his original paper.


   Concerns About On-Chain Governance  

Critics of the system claim that this form of informal governance is, in fact, centralized among miners and developers. They point to two prominent forks in the cryptocurrency ecosystem as proof.


  Ethereum Fork  

The first is a split of the original Ethereum blockchain into Ethereum Classic (ETC) and Ethereum (ETH) in 2016 as a result of a hack into the system in which $50 million worth of funds were stolen. A hard fork was performed to secure the network and to return the stolen funds to their original owners. A hard fork is a major change to a blockchain protocol that might make previous blocks or transactions valid or invalid. A hard fork requires the developers and nodes to agree to the upgrade or change to the protocols. Sometimes a hard fork is not agreed upon by all participants, which can create concern, debate, and criticism.



The Ethereum fork was widely debated by the community as was whether to support Ethereum Classic or Ethereum following the fork. Critics argued that this was a contravention of the widely-held "Code is Law" principle, in which the governing parameters for software are laid down in the original code. Others have argued that the fork demonstrates that malicious attacks on the system can be dealt with effectively restoring the funds of those involved.


  Bitcoin Fork  

In 2017, Bitcoin also went through a hard fork, which resulted in two separate blockchains; the original Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash. At the time, the Bitcoin community was trying to determine how to improve the network's scalability or the ability to process more transactions at the same time. As new transactions are added to a network, only so many can be processed simultaneously. For example, Bitcoin could only process one megabyte of transactions at a time, which led to delays in transactions being completed.



During the fork, a proposal to increase the average block size in bitcoin's blockchain was rejected by the cryptocurrency's core development team. They rejected the change, despite the fact that high transaction fees made bitcoin's use as a medium for daily transactions unsustainable. The only constituency that benefited from high transaction fees were miners. In the end, a renegade group of developers and miners moved away to create their own cryptocurrency with variable block sizes. The hard fork between Bitcoin and Bitcoin cash was done, in part, to increase the processing limit from one to eight megabytes.


   Future of On-Chain Governance  

On-chain governance emerged as an alternative to informal systems of governance. It claims to solve the problems of the centralization of bitcoin by incorporating all nodes within a blockchain network into the decision-making process.



Blockchain technology offers an inclusive approach to technology in which all participants can share the benefits. As the blockchain community and their networks look to improve their scalability allowing them to process more transactions and compete with traditional electronic payment systems, such as Visa, updates to the technology are likely to continue.



These changes will continue to be implemented in an effort to improve blockchain technology and the shared benefits of the community. On-chain governance will likely center around enhancing transparency and trust in the process of a distributed ledger as these changes and improvements are implemented.



However, the blockchain community will need to ensure that on-chain governance is not largely controlled by a small group of developers and miners who can Implement changes as they see fit. With developmental changes to the blockchain networks, there is the risk of future disagreements and hard forks, which could divide the blockchain community.


   Advantages of On-Chain Governance  

According to its proponents, the advantages of on-chain governance are as follows: 


  It Is a Decentralized Form of Governance  

Changes to a blockchain are not routed through a core development community, which evaluates its merits and demerits. Instead, each node is allowed to vote on the proposed change and can read about or discuss its benefits and drawbacks. It is decentralized because it relies on the community for collective decision-making.


  It Offers Quicker Turnaround Times for Changes  

Informal governance systems require time and effort between stakeholders in order to achieve consensus. On-chain governance achieves consensus regarding proposed changes in relatively less time among stakeholders. For example, the bitcoin cash fork and Ethereum classic fork took months to build up and implement.



What's more, off-chain maneuvering can result in messy situations where certain nodes can agree to disagree and not run the proposed changes. Algorithmic voting mechanisms are relatively faster because test results for their implementation can be seen via a code update. Running the code change on a test net, as in the case of Tezos, also enables stakeholders to see the effects of that change in practice. 


  The Possibility of a Hard Fork Is Reduced Significantly  

Because each proposed change requires consensus from all nodes, this means that the possibility of a hard fork is reduced significantly. Through the use of rewards, on-chain governance proposes economic incentives for nodes to participate in the voting process.



The informal governance process does not provide economic incentives to end-users, who utilize cryptocurrencies for daily transactions or invest in them for long periods. Instead, economic incentives rest with miners and developers. Once voting is concluded, all node operators are required to follow the decision. 


   Disadvantages of On-Chain Governance   

Based on initial experiments conducted with on-chain protocols, the disadvantages of this type of governance are as follows:


  It Has a Low-Voter Turnout  

As with real-world elections, low voter turnout may become a problem for on-chain governance. The DAO Carbonvote, which at one time had recorded participation rates of 4.5%, is proof of this problem. Low-voter turnout is also undemocratic because it could result in a single node with significant holdings manipulating the overall future direction of the protocol.


  Users With Greater Stakes Can Manipulate Votes   

Nodes with more coins get more votes. Again, this means that users with more stakes can take control of the voting process and steer future development in their desired direction. More importantly, it skews the dynamic away from miners and developers towards users and investors, who may be simply interested in maximizing future profits as opposed to developing the protocol towards innovative use cases.


   Critiques of On-Chain vs. Off-Chain Governance  

The question of blockchain governance is not unique or unprecedented. Legal philosophy and theory have grappled with this issue for hundreds of years, and the issues there have direct relevance to the question of on-chain versus off-chain governance.



Central to the debate between governance that includes human decision making (off-chain) and rule-based decision making that can be conducted entirely through automated processes (on-chain), is the question of "whether existing rules and decision-making processes governing a blockchain-based system should be changed from the inside or the outside by the reference community, and whether the system should provide for a mechanism to change the governance structure itself. This practical question leads to the more theoretical and normative question of whether an existing set of code-based rules could and should overtake the exercise of human judgment in decision-making, and what are the ethical and political considerations this would entail."



On-chain governance is based on a version of positivist legal order that enables peaceful and legitimate resolutions of disputes in a pluralist society, without recourse to external sources (moral or political) to justify its legitimacy. In the case of crypto governance, this means the competing interests of stakeholders don't have to come down to an arbitrating authority (like "what would Satoshi do?") or a fight over moral priorities, like "it's unfair that miners get to make decisions on fees when coin holders are left out in the cold."



The critique asks if this is possible, or if, as conservative legal theorist (and one-time German Nazi party member) Carl Schmidt argued, such positivist orders are vulnerable to capture by private interests. According to Schmitt, positivist regimes break down during situations where exceptions arise outside the norms of governance that are written into the rules—in this case, the code that runs the blockchain.



In such a situation, the rule system itself starts to embody unsustainable contradictions. For example, if one set of users of the blockchain insist that blocks must be modified to increase the liquidity and supply of its tokens, which could produce inflation, and another set insists that the financial pain of less-liquid currency is necessary to defend against the evils of inflation.



In these situations, Schmitt argues one person or one group will step in to make a decision that breaks the unresolvable tie—someone above the rules. This is, of course, anathema to the radically decentralized ethos of blockchain philosophy.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Are On-the-Run Treasuries?  

On-the-run Treasuries are the most recently issued U.S. Treasury bonds or notes of a particular maturity. On-the-run Treasuries are the opposite of "off-the-run" Treasuries, which refer to Treasury securities that have been issued before the most recent issue and are still outstanding. Media mentions about Treasury yields and prices generally reference on-the-run Treasuries.





Key Takeaways

On-the-run Treasuries are the most recent Treasury released for a certain maturity.Off-the-run Treasuries are those that have been issued before and remain outstanding.A Treasury transitions from on-the-run to off-the-run once a newer set of Treasuries is released for sale.


   How On-the-Run Treasuries Work  

The on-the-run bond or note is the most frequently traded Treasury security of its maturity. Because on-the-run issues are the most liquid, they typically trade at a slight premium and thus yield a little less than their off-the-run counterparts. Some traders successfully exploit this price differential through an arbitrage strategy that involves selling, or going short, on-the-run Treasuries, and buying off-the-run Treasuries.



Treasuries are considered to be a lower risk than some other investment options, as they are debts owed by the Federal Government. The Treasury issues them to raise revenue for government expenses. As Treasuries are created and sold, the newest batch becomes the on-the-run Treasuries.


   On-the-Run vs. Off-the-Run Treasuries  

A Treasury transitions from on-the-run to off-the-run once a newer set of Treasuries is released for sale. For example, if one-year Treasury notes are issued today, those would be the current on-the-run Treasuries.



If another set of Treasury notes get issued in the next month, those become the new on-the-run Treasuries, and the previously issued Treasuries are considered off-the-run. This cycle continues as each new batch is created, with every group other than the newest run deemed off-the-run for the rest of its associated time, until it is cashed in upon reaching maturity.



The most actively traded Treasuries at any point in time are those that are considered on-the-run. Due to the increased activity, they tend to have a higher initial cost and lower yield than off-the-run notes. This causes on-the-run Treasuries to be more liquid, as finding a buyer tends to be simpler than off-the-run options. This leads to more investments relating to hedging than to longer-term investments.



Long-term investors do not need to purchase on-the-run Treasuries at a higher price since the included return or interest rates tend to be similar. The price difference between on-the-run and off-the-run Treasuries is often referred to as the liquidity premium, as the more liquid Treasuries are obtained at a higher cost. If liquidity is not a concern, the investor will likely look for more cost-effective options.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of On-the Run Treasuries  

On-the-run Treasuries are more scarce than off-the-run Treasuries. There are plenty of off-the-run treasuries, yet, there are a limited amount of on-the-run securities—that is, new issues are a small part of the Treasury universe. Thus, on-the-run securities tend to have higher prices and lower yields.



On-the-run securities tend to be highly liquid, as they trade heavily on the secondary market. Meanwhile, the liquidity for off-the-run Treasuries is less, where they've already been bought and are held by investors. Thus, on-the-run Treasuries trade with that liquidity premium, but if investors don't need the newest issue, they will likely find a better deal with off-the-run Treasuries.
What is On-The-Run Treasury Yield Curve?  

The on-the-run Treasury yield curve graphically shows the current yields versus maturities of the most recently sold U.S. Treasury securities and is the primary benchmark used in pricing fixed-income securities.





Key Takeaways

The on-the-run Treasury yield curve graphically shows the current yields versus maturities of the most recently sold U.S. Treasury securities and is the primary benchmark used in pricing fixed-income securities.On-the-run Treasury yield curve is the opposite of the off-the-run Treasury yield curve, which refers to U.S. treasuries, of a given maturity, which are not part of the most recent issue.On-the-run treasury yield curve is less accurate than off-the-run treasury yield curve as the volatility of current demand for recent supply tends to lead to price distortions.


   Understanding On-The-Run Treasury Yield Curve  

Simply put, the on-the-run treasury yield curve is the U.S. Treasury yield curve that is derived using on-the-run Treasuries and it plots the yields of these instruments, of similar quality, against their maturities. The on-the-run Treasury yield curve is the opposite of the off-the-run Treasury yield curve, which refers to U.S. treasuries, of a given maturity, which are not part of the most recent issue. On-the-run treasury yield curve is less accurate than off-the-run treasury yield curve as the volatility of current demand for recent supply tends to lead to price distortions.



The on-the-run Treasury yield curve's relevance lies in the fact that it is commonly used to price fixed-income securities. However, its shape is sometimes distorted by up to several basis points if an on-the-run Treasury goes "on special." A Treasury goes "on special" when its price is temporarily bid up. This price increase is usually the result of increased demand by securities dealers wishing to use the security as a hedging vehicle. This hedging can make on-the-run Treasury yield curves somewhat less accurate than off-the-run Treasury yield curves.



The Treasury yield curve indicates that there are two important factors that complicate the relationship between maturity and yield. 



The first is that the yield for on-the-run issues is distorted since these securities can be financed at cheaper rates, and therefore offer a lower yield than they would without this financing advantage. 
The second is that on-the-run Treasury issues and off-the-run issues have different interest rate reinvestment risks.


   Yield Curve Shapes  

The typical shape for the on-the-run Treasury yield curve is upward sloping as yield increases with maturity, which is referred to as a normal yield curve. The shape of the yield curve is the result of supply and demand for investments in particular segments of the curve. 



For example, if an investment fund chooses to invest only in securities with 5- to 10-year maturities, that would raise prices and lower yields in the corresponding segment. If demand by short-term investors is extremely high, the yield curve will become steeper.



An inverted yield curve reflects higher interest rates for shorter-term maturities than for longer-term maturities. An inversion in the yield curve can sometimes be the result of aggressive central bank policies. These policies temporarily raise short-term interest rates to slow the economy. However, this is considered to be a short-term abnormality and there is an expectation that the curve will revert to a flat or positive structure in the near term. 



A flat yield curve, where short- and long-term rates that are approximately equal, is normally associated with a transitional period. This period is when interest rates are moving from a positive yield curve to an inverted yield curve or vice versa.
What Is an On-Us Item?  

An on-us item is a check or draft that is presented to the bank where the check writer has the funds on deposit, as opposed to the depositor's bank (although in some cases both check writer and depositor may happen to use the same bank). The check can then be cashed or deposited into another account.



Of course, the drawing account must have a sufficient balance to pay the check.





Key Takeaways

An on-us item refers to a check or payment that is deposited or processed by the bank issuing or initiating the payment.Because the transaction remains within a single bank, it is preferred for its lower expenses and added ability to profit from it.For not-on-us items, an inter-bank payments or clearing network must be used, which may carry fees and charges.


   Understanding On-Us Items  

On-us items can be very beneficial for banks conducting the transactions as they often obtain revenues from both the acquiring and issuing sides of the payment. In on-us transactions, there is often no need to go to an outside network to obtain authorization or funds for the exchanges, which may carry additional fees or surcharges. On-us checks may also be referred to as "house checks.”



On-us items can also be in the form of electronic debits or transfers. As with checks, electronic on-us items refer to the drawing and paying accounts at the same bank.


   On-Us Versus Other Forms of Transactions  

In addition to on-us items, a number of other categories of bank transactions exist. These include, but are not limited to, a not-on-us transaction, an international or cross border transaction, and intra-regional transactions. Not-on-us items occur when the acquirer and issuer bank are separate. In a typical credit card process, for example, an acquirer (a merchant’s bank) both processes and settles a merchant's credit card transaction. After a merchant swipes a credit card, the merchant’s bank requests authorization for the sale. This request is routed to the card-issuing bank prior to the completion of the sale.



International or cross border transactions are defined as when an acquirer and issuer are from different countries. Intra-regional transactions occur when acquirers and issuers are from different regions yet still to an established geographic grouping, such as Europe Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) or GIM UEMOA, a banking group of the Economic and Monetary Union of West Africa. GIM UEMOA represents over eighty regional financial institutions and more than 80 million individuals.
What Is a Bank Holding Company?  

A bank holding company is a corporation that owns a controlling interest in one or more banks but does not itself offer banking services.



Holding companies do not run the day-to-day operations of the banks they own. However, they exercise control over management and company policies. They can hire and fire managers, set and evaluate strategies, and monitor the performance of subsidiaries’ businesses.



Bank of America, Citigroup, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. all are operated by holding companies.



Bank holding companies are regulated by the Federal Reserve. Banks that are not owned by holding companies are regulated primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, although U.S. banking regulations are so complex and far-reaching that a total of five federal agencies are involved.


   Understanding the Bank Holding Company  

Holding companies exist outside of the realm of banks. Some corporations have been formed just to hold the assets of several subsidiaries, not to produce any products or services.





Key Takeaways

A bank holding company is a corporate entity that owns a controlling interest in one or more banks.The one-bank holding company is simply a holding company for one bank but it has a shorter history as a more flexible arrangement for an independent bank.Holding companies of many kinds exist throughout the economy. Berkshire Hathaway is one.



Holding company assets may include limited liability companies or partnerships, real estate, patent trademarks, stocks, bonds, and more. They are partially protected by law from the financial losses of their assets and can structure themselves to spread tax, financial, and legal liabilities among their various subsidiaries, reducing overall risk.



Perhaps the best-known holding company in the U.S. is Berkshire Hathaway, which is owned and run by the investor Warren Buffet. Berkshire Hathaway is a holding company for businesses in which it holds a significant stake including Coca-Cola, GEICO, Dairy Queen, BNSF Railway, Lubrizol, Fruit of the Loom, and Helzberg Diamonds. The holding company also has stakes in the Kraft Heinz Company and American Express.


  The One-Bank Holding Company  

A variation of the holding company is the one-bank holding company which, by definition, is a corporation that owns at least one-quarter of the voting stock of a commercial bank.






A bank holding company does not offer any banking services. It owns and controls a bank or banks.



The one-bank holding company is a creation of the late 1960s. Their formation allowed independent banks the greater operating range of a bank holding company. That is, they could branch out from their dependence on individual depositors into other types of banking activities such as loans and commercial paper.



The ability to issue commercial paper in capital markets was a particular priority of the one-bank holding companies. Commercial paper is a key method for a corporation to raise money quickly and cheaply to meet its short-term liabilities and finance its accounts receivable and inventories. It is a short-term debt instrument, rarely maturing in more than 270 days. It does not pay interest in the traditional sense but is issued at a discount from face value.
What Is One Belt One Road (OBOR)?  

One Belt One Road (OBOR), the brainchild of Chinese President Xi Jinping, is an ambitious economic development and commercial project that focuses on improving connectivity and cooperation among multiple countries spread across the continents of Asia, Africa, and Europe. Dubbed as the “Project of the Century” by the Chinese authorities, OBOR spans about 78 countries.





Key Takeaways

OBOR is a project that focuses on improving connectivity and cooperation among multiple countries in Asia, Africa, and Europe.OBOR's scope has expanded over the years to include new territories and development initiatives.Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan support OBOR thanks to the massive investments by China in local transmission projects in these nations.


   How One Belt One Road Works  

Initially announced in the year 2013 with the purpose of restoring the ancient Silk Route that connected Asia and Europe, the project's scope has been expanded over the years to include new territories and development initiatives. Also called the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), the project involves building a big network of roadways, railways, maritime ports, power grids, oil and gas pipelines, and associated infrastructure projects.



The project covers two parts. The first is called the “Silk Road Economic Belt,” which is primarily land-based and is expected to connect China with Central Asia, Eastern Europe, and Western Europe. The second is called the “21st Century Maritime Silk Road,” which is sea-based and is expected to will China’s southern coast to the Mediterranean, Africa, South-East Asia, and Central Asia. The names are confusing as the ‘Belt’ is actually a network of roads, and the ‘Road’ is a sea route.



They contain the following six economic corridors:



The New Eurasian Land Bridge, which connects Western China to Western RussiaThe China-Mongolia-Russia Corridor, which connects North China to Eastern Russia via MongoliaThe China-Central Asia-West Asia Corridor, which connects Western China to Turkey via Central and West AsiaThe China-Indochina Peninsula Corridor, which connects Southern China to Singapore via Indo-ChinaThe China-Pakistan Corridor, which connects South Western China through Pakistan to Arabia sea routesThe Bangladesh-China-India-Myanmar Corridor, which connects Southern China to India via Bangladesh and Myanmar



Additionally, the maritime Silk Road connects coastal China to the Mediterranean via Singapore-Malaysia, the Indian Ocean, the Arabian Sea, and the Strait of Hormuz.





78

OBOR spans over 78 countries.


   Special Considerations: OBOR’s Importance to China  

OBOR is of prime significance to China as it aims to boost its domestic growth and is also a part of the country’s strategy for economic diplomacy. By connecting the less-developed border regions like Xinjiang with neighboring nations, China expects to bump up economic activity. OBOR is expected to open up and create new markets for Chinese goods. It would also enable the manufacturing powerhouse to gain control of cost-effective routes to export materials easily.



Any excess capacity in terms of production can be channelized effectively to regions along OBOR routes. China has announced investments of over $1 trillion in the various infrastructure projects and is funding them by offering low-cost loans to the participating countries.



Many participating countries, like Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, support the OBOR due to massive investments by China in local transmission projects in these nations. Landlocked Nepal has recently joined OBOR by signing a deal that will help it improve cross-border connectivity with China, and Pakistan is set to benefit from the $46 billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) that will connect southwestern China to and through Pakistan, allowing access to Arabian Sea routes.﻿﻿



While China continues to pitch OBOR as an all-inclusive project for regional development, other nations perceive it as a strategic move by the Asian powerhouse to attain significance and control at a regional level and to play a larger role at the global level by building and controlling a China-focused trading network.



China sees this venture as an opportunity to emerge as a regional leader. In the future, we may see a boost in the Chinese yuan, with increased usage in the OBOR region.
What is a One-Cancels-the-Other Order (OCO)  

A one-cancels-the-other (OCO) order is a pair of conditional orders stipulating that if one order executes, then the other order is automatically canceled. An OCO order often combines a stop order with a limit order on an automated trading platform. When either the stop or limit price is reached and the order is executed, the other order is automatically canceled. Experienced traders use OCO orders to mitigate risk and enter the market.



OCO orders may contrast with order-sends-order (OSO) conditions that trigger, rather than cancel, a second order.





Key Takeaways

One-cancels-the-other (OCO) is a type of conditional order for a pair of orders in which the execution of one automatically cancels the other.Traders generally execute OCO orders for volatile stocks that trade over a wide price range.On many trading platforms, multiple conditional orders can be placed with other orders canceled when one has been executed. 


   Basics of a One-Cancels-the-Other Order  

Traders can use OCO orders to trade retracements and breakouts. If a trader wanted to trade a break above resistance or below support, they could place an OCO order that uses a buy stop and sell stop to enter the market.



For example, if a stock is trading in a range between $20 and $22, a trader could place an OCO order with a buy stop just above $22 and a sell stop just below $20. When the price breaks above resistance or below support, a trade is executed and the corresponding stop order is canceled. Conversely, if a trader wanted to use a retracement strategy that buys at support and sells at resistance, they could place an OCO order with a buy limit order at $20 and a sell limit order at $22.



If OCO orders are used to enter the market, the trader must manually place a stop-loss order when the trade is executed. The time in force for OCO orders should be identical, meaning that the time frame specified for the execution of both stop and limit orders should be the same.


   Example of an OCO order  

Suppose an investor owns 1,000 shares of a volatile stock that is trading at $10. The investor expects this stock to trade over a wide range in the near term and has a target of $13. For risk mitigation, they do not want to lose more than $2 per share. The investor could, therefore, place an OCO order, which would consist of a stop-loss order to sell 1,000 shares at $8, and a simultaneous limit order to sell 1,000 shares at $13, whichever occurs first. These orders could either be day orders or good-'til-canceled orders.



If the stock trades up to $13, the limit order to sell executes, and the investor's holding of 1,000 shares sells at $13. Concurrently, the $8 stop-loss order is automatically canceled by the trading platform. If the investor places these orders independently, there is a risk that they might forget to cancel the stop-loss order, which could result in an unwanted short position of 1,000 shares if the stock subsequently trades down to $8.
What Was China's One-Child Policy?  

The one-child policy was a rule implemented by the Chinese government mandating that the vast majority of couples in the country could only have one child. This was intended to alleviate the social, economic, and environmental problems associated with the country's rapidly growing population. The rule was introduced in 1979 and phased out in 2015.





Key Takeaways

The one-child policy was a Chinese government policy to control population growth. According to estimates, it prevented about 400 million births in the country.It was introduced in 1979 and discontinued in 2015, and enforced through a mix of incentives and sanctions.The one-child policy has had three important consequences for China's demographics: it reduced the fertility rate considerably, it skewed China's gender ratio because people preferred to abort or abandon their female babies, and resulted in a labor shortage due to more seniors who rely on their children to take care of them.






   Understanding China's One-Child Policy  

The one-child policy was introduced in 1979 in response to explosive population growth. China has a long history of encouraging birth control and family planning. By the 1950s, population growth started to outpace the food supply, and the government started promoting birth control. Following Mao Zedong’s Great Leap Forward in 1958, a plan to rapidly modernize China’s economy, a catastrophic famine ensued, which resulted in the deaths of tens of millions of Chinese.



However, by the late 70s, China's population was quickly approaching the 1 billion mark, and the Chinese government was forced to give serious consideration to curbing the population growth rate. This effort began in 1979 with mixed results but was implemented more seriously and uniformly in 1980, as the government standardized the practice nationwide.



There were, however, certain exceptions, for ethnic minorities, for those whose firstborn was handicapped, and for rural families in which the firstborn was not a boy. The policy was most effective in urban areas, where it was generally well-received by nuclear families, more willing to comply with the policy; the policy was resisted to some extent in agrarian communities in China.



Initially, the one-child policy was meant to be a temporary measure and is estimated to have prevented up to 400 million births since it was instituted. Ultimately, China ended its one-child policy realizing that too many Chinese were heading into retirement, and the nation's population had too few young people entering the labor force to provide for the older population's retirement, healthcare, and continued economic growth.



The government-mandated policy was formally ended with little fanfare on Oct. 29, 2015, after its rules had been slowly relaxed to allow more couples fitting certain criteria to have a second child. Now, all couples are allowed to have two children.


   Enforcement  

There were various methods of enforcement, both through incentives and sanctions. For those who complied there were financial incentives, as well as preferential employment opportunities. For those who violated the policy, there were sanctions, economic and otherwise. At times, the government employed more draconian measures, including forced abortions and sterilizations.



The one-child policy was officially discontinued in 2015 and the government attempted to replace it with a two-child policy. The efficacy of the policy itself, though, has been challenged, as it is true that populations, generally, naturally taper off as societies get wealthier. In China's case, as the birth rate declined, the death rate declined, too, and life expectancy increased.


   One-Child Policy Implications  

The one-child policy had serious implications for China's demographic and economic future. In 2017, China's fertility rate was 1.7, among the lowest in the world.



China now has a considerable gender skew—there are roughly 3-4% more males than females in the country. With the implementation of the one-child policy and the preference for male children, China saw a rise in female fetus abortions, increases in the number of baby girls left in orphanages, and even increases in infanticide of baby girls. There were 33 million more men, with 116 boys for every 100 girls, as compared to women in China.



This will have an impact on marriage in the country, and a number of factors surrounding marriage, for years to come. Lower numbers of females also mean that there were fewer women of child-bearing age in China.



The drop in birth rates meant fewer children, which occurred as death rates dropped and longevity rates rose. It is estimated that a third of China's population will be over the age of 60 by 2050. That means more elderly people relying on their children to support them, and fewer children to do so. So, China is facing a labor shortage and will have trouble supporting this aging population through its state services.



And finally, the one-child policy has led to the proliferation of undocumented, non-first-born children. Their status as undocumented makes it impossible to leave China legally, as they cannot register for a passport. They have no access to public education. Oftentimes, their parents were fined or removed from their jobs.


   One-Child Policy FAQs  
  Does China Still Have the One-Child Policy?  

No. China reverted to a two-child policy after its one-child policy ended in 2015. While restrictions had been gradually loosened over time.


  What Caused China’s One-Child Policy?  

China's one-child policy was implemented to curb overpopulation that strained the country's food supply and natural and economic resources following its industrialization in the 1950s.


  What Are the Effects of China's One-Child Policy?  

Gender imbalance, an aging population, and a shrinking workforce are all effects of China's 1979 policy. To this day, China has the most skewed sex ratio at birth in the world, due to a cultural preference for male offspring.


  Who Ended the One-Child Policy?  

The Chinese government, led by the Chinese Communist Party's Xi Jinping, ended the controversial one-child policy in 2015.


  What Happened If You Broke the One-Child Policy?  

Violators of China's one-child policy were fined, forced to have abortions or sterilizations, and lost their jobs.

What Is the One Percent Rule?  

The one percent rule, sometimes stylized as the "1% rule," is used to determine if the monthly rent earned from a piece of investment property will exceed that property's monthly mortgage payment. The goal of the rule is to ensure that the rent will be greater than or—at worst—equal to the mortgage payment, so the investor at least breaks even on the property.





Key Takeaways:

The rent charged should be equal to or greater than the investor's mortgage payment to ensure that they at least break even on the property.Multiply the purchase price of the property plus any necessary repairs by 1% to determine a base level of monthly rent.Ideally, an investor should seek a mortgage loan with monthly payments of less than the 1% figure.



The one percent rule can provide a baseline for establishing the level of rent that commercial property owners charge on real estate space. This rent level can apply to all types of tenants in both residential and commercial real estate properties.



Purchasing a piece of property for investment requires a thorough analysis of numerous factors. The one percent rule is just one measurement tool that can help an investor gauge the risk and potential gain that might be achieved by investing in a property.


   How the One Percent Rule Works  

This simple calculation multiplies the purchase price of the property plus any necessary repairs by 1%. The result is a base level of monthly rent. It's also compared to the potential monthly mortgage payment to give the owner a better understanding of the property’s monthly cash flow.






This rule is only used for quick estimation because it doesn't take into account other costs associated with a piece of property, such as upkeep, insurance, and taxes.


   Example of the One Percent Rule  

An investor is looking to obtain a mortgage loan on a rental property with a total payoff value of $200,000. Using the one percent rule, the owner would calculate a $2,000 monthly rent payment: $200,000 multiplied by 1%. In this case, the investor would seek a mortgage loan with monthly payments of less than and absolutely no more than $2,000.


   The One Percent Rule vs. Other Types of Calculations  

The one percent rule also helps give an investor a base point from which to consider other factors regarding the ownership of a property. A second important calculation is the gross rent multiplier, which uses the monthly rent level to determine the amount of time it will take to pay off the investment. This calculation is achieved by dividing the total borrowed value by the monthly rent.



In the example of the home with a value of $200,000, the investor would divide $200,000 by $2,000. This gives the investor a 100-month payoff period, which translates to a little over 8.3 years. Investors can also use the gross rent multiplier when considering the payment schedule terms of a loan taken for the property.



The 70% rule implies that an investor should not pay more than 70% of the property's estimated value after repairs fewer costs.


   Special Considerations  

In calculating the gross rent multiplier, a buyer must also consider the rental rates in the area in which the property is located. If the standard rate for rent in the neighborhood is less than $2,000 for the buyer in this example, the investor might have to consider decreasing the rent to ensure that they find a tenant.



Another important factor to consider is maintenance on the property. The property owner is responsible for upkeep and repairs. While a deposit might cover substantial damages, it's also important for the owner to budget a specified amount of the rent for savings toward maintenance. This can contribute to profits if it's unused, and the money would be available when any maintenance needs arise.



Overall, investing in real estate can be lucrative for long-term investors. The base rent that an owner charges on any type of property sets the level of payments expected by tenants. Owners typically raise rent annually to manage inflation and other costs associated with the property, but the base rate is an important level that determines the overall return on an investment.
What Is a One-Stop Shop?  

A one-stop shop is a firm that offers a multitude of products or services to its customers, all under one roof, so to speak. A one-stop shop can refer to a literal roof—a specific physical location where all the business a client has can be carried out—or it can refer to a company that handles a variety of goods or services.



For example, a bank may be able to offer you not only accounts and loans, but also investment advice, in addition to investment vehicles (like Certificates of Deposit) and insurance policies. Compared to visiting a separate institution for each area of need, the one-stop shop saves the consumer a lot of time and effort.



The terms "full service," as in full-service broker, and "turnkey operation" is sometimes synonymous with the term "one-stop shop."


   Understanding a One-Stop Shop  

The concept of a one-stop shop dates back to early 20th-century America when a shopping trip could mean going all over town to pick up meat from the butchers, vegetables from the Haymarket, bread from the bakery—and that was just for foodstuffs. Hardware supplies, cleaning supplies, and other household items required even more visits to even more places.



Then, as now, people wanted to save time, so stores responded by stocking a wider range of products so that customers only had to come to their location to check off the majority of their shopping lists.



Piggly Wiggly, credited as being the first self-service grocery store, opened in 1916. The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, better known as A&P, became common in American cities in the 1920s. King Kullen opened a 6,000 square foot store in 1930—the first supermarket. Chain stores like Woolworth and J.C. Penney, which carried all sorts of articles of daily use, mushroomed as well.



The actual term "one-stop shop" may have first been in conjunction with businesses that did all the work for that new staple of American life, the car—from sales to repairs to parts. One such firm was the Western Auto Supply Co.





Key Takeaways

A one-stop shop is a business or office that offers multiple services or products to customers.The business strategy behind the one-stop shop is to provide convenience and efficiency to clients, gaining loyalty as well as revenue.For the consumer, using a one-stop shop can be efficient and provide insight into one's affairs, but it can also limit options and be more expensive.



Eventually, the concept of the one-stop shop expanded over time to include business services. The nuance also shifted from a wide product offering to capture more of the customer's grocery purchase to one of offering all the complementary products and services to a client in a particular area. For example, the 1980s saw the rise of "financial supermarkets"—brokerages like Merrill Lynch that began expanding into retail banking, insurance products, credit cards, and even real-estate services.



The business strategy behind the modernized concept of a one-stop shop is to provide convenient and efficient service that will create the opportunity for the company to sell more to customers. This way a company can grow revenue by selling more to existing customers in addition to growth from new customers. 


   Pros and Cons of a One-Stop Shop  

There are some obvious advantages to a one-stop shop for consumers as well as the businesses operating them. As mentioned, convenience is a big one. If the firm who does your taxes can also help you with your estate planning and investing strategy, it saves you having to deal with multiple companies. From the firm's perspective, seeing all those aspects of your life also allows it to better tailor services in all areas to you. If the firm sees that your tax bill is going up, they can suggest strategies to minimize the taxes coming from your investments.



A high level of trust grows over time when a consumer uses a particular business more and builds a personal connection with it. There may be loyalty perks for the consumer, and the business gains a higher degree of confidence that the customer won't fly to another provider based on price alone.



The downside of the one-stop shop is embodied in the saying, "Jack of all trades, master of none." While various services and abilities offered at a single institution are probably competent, they may not be as expert or as inventive as those offered by professionals specializing in different fields of tax, law, or investing.



A client's options and choices may be limited not only to certain people—the firm's employees—but also to its proprietary products and services. Dealing with a one-stop shop may save money, thanks to the firm's economies of scale, but then again, it may not. The convenience of the one-stop usually comes with a cost.



From the shop's point of view, there are natural limitations on how many products and services one company can offer to a customer while maintaining superior quality. Some companies expand their suite of services too broadly, eroding the core services that made them outstanding to that customer in the first place.
A one-tailed test is a statistical test in which the critical area of a distribution is one-sided so that it is either greater than or less than a certain value, but not both. If the sample being tested falls into the one-sided critical area, the alternative hypothesis will be accepted instead of the null hypothesis.



Financial analysts use the one-tailed test to test an investment or portfolio hypothesis.





Key Takeaways

A one-tailed test is a statistical hypothesis test set up to show that the sample mean would be higher or lower than the population mean, but not both.When using a one-tailed test, the analyst is testing for the possibility of the relationship in one direction of interest and completely disregarding the possibility of a relationship in another direction.Before running a one-tailed test, the analyst must set up a null and alternative hypothesis and establish a probability value (p-value).


   What Is a One-Tailed Test?  

A basic concept in inferential statistics is hypothesis testing. Hypothesis testing is run to determine whether a claim is true or not, given a population parameter. A test that is conducted to show whether the mean of the sample is significantly greater than and significantly less than the mean of a population is considered a two-tailed test. When the testing is set up to show that the sample mean would be higher or lower than the population mean, it is referred to as a one-tailed test. The one-tailed test gets its name from testing the area under one of the tails (sides) of a normal distribution, although the test can be used in other non-normal distributions.



Before the one-tailed test can be performed, null and alternative hypotheses must be established. A null hypothesis is a claim that the researcher hopes to reject. An alternative hypothesis is the claim supported by rejecting the null hypothesis.






A one-tailed test is also known as a directional hypothesis or directional test.


   Example of the One-Tailed Test  

Let's say an analyst wants to prove that a portfolio manager outperformed the S&P 500 index in a given year by 16.91%. They may set up the null (H0) and alternative (Ha) hypotheses as:



H0: μ ≤ 16.91



Ha: μ > 16.91



The null hypothesis is the measurement that the analyst hopes to reject. The alternative hypothesis is the claim made by the analyst that the portfolio manager performed better than the S&P 500. If the outcome of the one-tailed test results in rejecting the null, the alternative hypothesis will be supported. On the other hand, if the outcome of the test fails to reject the null, the analyst may carry out further analysis and investigation into the portfolio manager’s performance.



The region of rejection is on only one side of the sampling distribution in a one-tailed test. To determine how the portfolio’s return on investment compares to the market index, the analyst must run an upper-tailed significance test in which extreme values fall in the upper tail (right side) of the normal distribution curve. The one-tailed test conducted in the upper or right tail area of the curve will show the analyst how much higher the portfolio return is than the index return and whether the difference is significant.





1%, 5% or 10%

The most common significance levels (p-values) used in a one-tailed test.


   Determining Significance in a One-Tailed Test  

To determine how significant the difference in returns is, a significance level must be specified. The significance level is almost always represented by the letter p, which stands for probability. The level of significance is the probability of incorrectly concluding that the null hypothesis is false. The significance value used in a one-tailed test is either 1%, 5%, or 10%, although any other probability measurement can be used at the discretion of the analyst or statistician. The probability value is calculated with the assumption that the null hypothesis is true. The lower the p-value, the stronger the evidence that the null hypothesis is false.



If the resulting p-value is less than 5%, the difference between both observations is statistically significant, and the null hypothesis is rejected. Following our example above, if the p-value = 0.03, or 3%, then the analyst can be 97% confident that the portfolio returns did not equal or fall below the return of the market for the year. They will, therefore, reject H0 and support the claim that the portfolio manager outperformed the index. The probability calculated in only one tail of a distribution is half the probability of a two-tailed distribution if similar measurements were tested using both hypothesis testing tools.



When using a one-tailed test, the analyst is testing for the possibility of the relationship in one direction of interest and completely disregarding the possibility of a relationship in another direction. Using our example above, the analyst is interested in whether a portfolio’s return is greater than the market’s. In this case, they do not need to statistically account for a situation in which the portfolio manager underperformed the S&P 500 index. For this reason, a one-tailed test is only appropriate when it is not important to test the outcome at the other end of a distribution.




How Do You Determine If It Is a One-Tailed or Two-Tailed Test?
A one-tailed test looks for an increase or decrease in a parameter. A two-tailed test looks for change, which could be a decrease or an increase.




What Is a One-Tailed T Test Used for?
A one-tailed T-test checks for the possibility of a one-direction relationship but does not consider a directional relationship in another direction.




When Should a Two-Tailed Test Be Used?
You would use a two-tailed test when you want to test your hypothesis in both directions.
What Is the One-Third Rule?  

The one-third rule estimates change in labor productivity based on changes in capital devoted to labor. The rule is used to determine the impact that changes in technology or capital have on production.





Key Takeaways

The one-third rule is a rule of thumb that estimates the change in labor productivity based on changes in capital per hour of labor.The rule is used to determine the impact that changes in technology or capital have on production.The more goods and services a laborer can produce in an hour of work, the higher the standard of living in that economy.It can be hard to obtain more human capital, especially in countries that have a lower participation rate, or percentage of the population participating in the labor force.


   Understanding the One-Third Rule  

Labor productivity is an economic term that describes the cost of a worker's hourly production based on the amount of gross domestic product (GDP) spent to produce that hour of work. In particular, the rule asserts that for an increase of 1% in capital expenditures to labor, a resulting productivity increase of 0.33% will happen. The one-third rule further assumes that all other variables remain static. So, no changes in technology or in human capital occur. Human capital is the knowledge and experience a worker has.



Using the one-third rule an economy or business may estimate how much technology or labor contributes to overall productivity. As an example, say a company experiences a 6% increase in capital for an hour of labor for a given period. In other words, it costs more to employ workers. At the same time, the company’s stock of physical capital also increased by 6%.



Using the equation % Increase in Productivity = 1/3 (% Increase in Physical Capital/Labor Hours) + % Increase in Technology, one could infer that 4% of the increase in productivity was due to advancements in technology.






When a nation has a shortage of human capital, it must either focus on increasing human capital through immigration and offering incentives to raise birth rates, or on increasing capital investments and developing new technological advancements.


   Factors That Affect Labor Productivity  

Labor productivity can be hard to quantify accurately. While it’s simple enough to draw a connection between the number of goods produced by factory labor in one hour of work, for example, it’s harder to place a value on service. How much is an hour of a waitress’s time worth? What about an hour of an accountant? What about a nurse? Statisticians can estimate the dollar value of labor in these professions, but without tangible goods to appraise, an exact valuation is impossible.



An increase in a country's labor productivity will, in turn, create growth in the real GDP per person. Since productivity indicates the number of goods an average worker can produce in one hour of labor, it may give clues to a country's standard of living.



For example, during the Industrial Revolution in Europe and the United States, rapid industrial technological advances allowed workers to make great gains in their hourly productivity rates. This increased production led to higher standards of living in Europe and the United States. In general, this happens because, when laborers can produce more goods and services, their wages increase, too.
What Is a One-Time Charge?  

A one-time charge, in corporate accounting, is a charge against a company's earnings that the company's managers expect to be an isolated event and is unlikely to occur again. A one-time charge can either be a cash charge against earnings such as the cost of paying severance expenses to laid-off former employees or a non-cash charge such as the writing down of the value of assets such as a piece of real estate whose market value has fallen due to changes in business fundamentals or consumer preferences.



Financial analysts routinely exclude one-time charges when they evaluate a company's ongoing earnings potential.





Key Takeaways

A one-time charge is a non-recurring event that results in an isolated charge or write-off.One-time charges are not typically reflective of long-term financial performance, so many companies report pro-forma earnings that exclude the impact of such charges.Some companies incorrectly record charges that they repeatedly incur in the course of their usual business activities as one-time charges.Stock prices have demonstrated a tendency to significantly suffer during periods of frequent one-time charges, as it could be signal a red flag.


   Understanding One-Time Charges  

Some one-time charges do indeed only take place once. In such a case, they should not recur and would not impact the long-run performance and growth of a company. As a result, they may be excluded from pro-forma financial statements or labeled as an extraordinary item.



However, some companies incorrectly record charges that they repeatedly incur in the course of their usual business activities as one-time charges. This practice may make the company’s financial health look better than it really is, and it is a practice that investors should be aware of.



Many consider this practice to be a dangerous trend. Some companies even use restructuring charges as a device to improve future earnings and profitability. By taking large restructuring charges, firms reduce depreciation in future periods and thus increase earnings. This is accentuated when profitability is measured on a return basis since the book value of capital and equity is also reduced by large restructuring charges.



Thus, many analysts regard one-time charges with skepticism, and the adjustments should reflect what they see. If the one-time charges are really operating expenses, they should be treated as such and earnings estimated after these charges. If one-time charges are actually one-time charges, earnings should be estimated prior to these charges.



When it comes to computing return on equity and capital, however, a more reliable estimate may be obtained if the book value of equity and capital are estimated prior to extraordinary charges, not just in the current period but cumulatively, over time.






The charges that are the most problematic for a company in the context of its stock prices are those related to restructuring for discontinued operations.


   One-Time Charge Example  

For example, Acme Technology Company may properly write off costs related to restructuring its file server business as a one-time charge. However if the company also writes down inventory costs every other quarter and reports these charges as one-time charges, it is less than clear that these inventory write-down charges are truly one-time charges and Acme’s financial circumstances may be somewhat different than investors and analysts are being led to believe by the company.


   Special Considerations  

While financial analysts may disregard one-time charges when making their judgments on a company's earnings, stock prices are not so forgiving. In fact, stock returns have demonstrated a tendency to significantly suffer during periods of frequent one-time charges.



Thus, it's important for anyone researching a given stock, which has been subjected to one-time charges, to understand the nature of each one-time charge. They are not all equal in the eyes of the investor or analyst. Some charges represent good economic decisions made by the company. Others may reflect that the company's finances catching up with past negative events.
What Is a One-Time Item?  

A one-time item is a gain, loss, or expense on the income statement that is nonrecurring in nature and therefore not considered part of a company's ongoing business operations. To get an accurate gauge of a company's operating performance, one-time items are usually excluded by analysts and investors while evaluating a company. Although many one-time items hurt earnings or profit, there are one-time items that add to earnings in the reporting period.





Key Takeaways

A one-time item is a gain, loss, or expense on the income statement that is nonrecurring in nature.A one-time item is not considered part of a company's ongoing business operations.One-time items are usually excluded by analysts and investors to properly evaluate a company's core performance.


   Understanding One-Time Items  

One-time items are either recorded under operating expenses or below earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). EBIT is essentially a company's profit without the cost of interest on debt and taxes factored into it. Net income, on the other hand, is the company's profit after factoring in all costs, expenses, and revenues and is listed at the bottom of the income statement.



A one-time item, such as the sale of an asset, could inflate net income for that period. One-time items are also called unusual items or nonrecurring items.


   Types of One-Time Items  

One-time items listed on a company's financial statements may include:



Restructuring charges, such as when a company modifies its debt structure
Asset impairment or write-off, which is a charge that occurs when the market value of an asset is lower than the asset's value listed on the balance sheet
Loss from discontinued operations, which is from an operation being shut down
Loss from early retirement of debt, such as a company paying off its debt–or bonds–early
M&A or divestiture-related costs, which can result from mergers and acquisitions
Gain or loss from an asset sale, such as the sale of equipment
Extraordinary legal costs
Natural disaster damage costs
Charge stemming from a change in accounting policy


   Explaining One-Time Items  

A company could list a one-time item separately on its income statement particularly if it's self-explanatory. However, many publicly-traded companies that report their financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis publish consolidated financial statements. These consolidated statements contain the aggregate financial performance for a corporation that owns multiple companies, subsidiaries, divisions, or businesses. The aggregated figures make it easier for the company to report their revenue, expenses, and profit. However, it's up to investors and analysts to investigate what's behind those aggregated figures. As a result, the one-items might not be listed separately on a consolidated income statement.



Instead, the company might group several items into a consolidated line item, such as other income, if the one-time items were gains. A separate consolidated line for nonrecurring charges could also be listed. However, there is usually a footnote number next to these line items on the income statement, which refers to a more in-depth explanation of the gains or losses in the footnotes section. The footnotes are found in the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of the company's quarterly or annual financial reports.


   Benefits of One-Time Items  

Reporting one-time items separately is important to ensure the transparency of financial reporting. One-time items help investors and analysts separate any charges or gains that are not part of the core operating revenue for the company. One-time items are the gains and losses that management does not expect to reoccur. So, segregating these items explicitly on the income statement or in the MD&A section allows for a better assessment of the continuing income-generating capacity of the business.



Listing one-time, nonrecurring items helps investors, analysts, and creditors with the analysis of a company's financial performance. Banks that lend to corporations would want to know how much of the company's revenue is being generated from its core business operations. Credit covenants issued by banks are frequently used to ensure that companies meet certain thresholds and financial requirements.



One-time items can skew a company's earnings and revenue positively or negatively. Bankers must separate these nonrecurring items to properly calculate whether the company is meeting its covenants. For example, if a company sells cars and has a large one-time gain for selling equipment, analysts and creditors would need to strip out that one-time gain and recalculate the company's net income or EBIT.



Although management will flag certain one-time items, whether an analyst or investor believes they are truly one-time or not, is a different matter. For example, companies in the oil and gas industry frequently sell assets to generate cash when oil prices are low. These one-time gains would increase earnings, but if the company continuously sells assets or investments to raise cash, they're essentially part of how the company does business. Of course, investors must draw their own conclusions as to whether a company that has frequent one-time items, such as gains from the sale of assets, is being managed properly, or perhaps, is in financial trouble.


   Real World Example of a One-Time Item  

General Electric Corporation (GE) owns several companies and subsidiaries and is involved in various industries, including aviation, healthcare, and renewable energy.﻿﻿ Below is a portion of the income statement from GE's 10-Q quarterly financial report for Q1 2020.﻿﻿ GE has restructured the company in recent years, and in doing so, has sold off some of its businesses.


  Income Statement  

A separate line item showing an income adjustment for the quarter is highlighted in blue on the income statement below.



GE listed $6.87 billion in income for the quarter under the section titled Other Income with reference to Note 23.﻿﻿To get the details of where the money came from, we must search for note #23 in the notes section of the financial statements.















One-time item example using GE's income statement from Q1 2020.
Investopedia 


  Notes Section  

The entry for "other income" on the income statement is explained in the notes section near the end of the quarterly financial report. Note #23 is listed below.﻿﻿



The $6.87 billion gain in Other Income was an aggregated or net amount as shown at the bottom of the table for 2020.It turns out that GE had a one-time gain of $12.37 billion listed as Purchases and sales of business interests (a).The description of the gain is located below the table in the (a) footnote. The footnote describes how the gain was from the sale of the company's BioPharma division.However, the company had a $5.63 billion loss in investment income, which, in part, led to the net amount of $6.87 billion being reported in Other Income.















One-time item example using GE's footnotes section from Q1 2020.
Investopedia 



Nonrecurring or one-time items may be listed as a separate line item. However, as shown above, with GE, one-time items can be grouped into other line items.



Since one-time items can skew a company's financial performance, it's important that investors dig through the footnotes section of a company's financial statements and investigate what's behind those one-time items.
What Is a One-Touch Option?  

A one-touch option pays a premium to the holder of the option if the spot rate reaches the strike price at any time prior to option expiration.





Key Takeaways

A one-touch option pays a premium to the holder of the option if the spot rate reaches the strike price at any time prior to option expiration.One-touch options are usually less expensive than other exotic or binary options like double one-touch or barrier options.Derivatives, like one-touch options, are not frequently traded by small investors.


   Understanding One-Touch Option  

One-touch option allows investors to choose the target price, time to expiration, and the premium to be received when the target price is reached. Compared to vanilla calls and puts, one-touch options allow investors to profit from a simplified yes-or-no market forecast. Only two outcomes are possible with a one-touch option if an investor holds the contract all the way through expiration:



The target price is reached and the trader collects the premium paid plus the negotiated payoutThe target price is not reached and the trader loses the premium paid to open the trade



Like regular call and put options, most one-touch option trades can be closed before expiration for a profit or a loss depending on how close the underlying market or asset is to the target price.



One-touch options are useful for traders who believe that the price of an underlying market or asset will meet or breach a certain price level in the future, but who are not certain that that price level is sustainable. Because a one-touch option has only a yes-or-no outcome by expiration, it is generally less expensive than other exotic binary options like double one-touch or barrier options.



Derivatives, like one-touch options, are not frequently traded by small investors. There are some trading venues where they are available, but regulators in Europe and the U.S. have often warned investors that they may be overpriced. In many cases, it is not possible to take advantage of that mispricing by becoming an option writer or seller.






Binary or exotic derivatives are usually traded by institutions that can negotiate with one another for better pricing.


   Outcome #1: Price Approaches Target Price  

A trader believes the S&P 500 will rise by 5% at some point over the next 90 days, but is not as certain about how long the index will remain at or above that price. The trader pays $45 per contract to buy one-touch options that pay $100 per contract, if the S&P 500 meets or exceeds that target price at any point over the next 90 days. Assume that two weeks later the S&P 500 has risen 2%, which has increased the value of the position because it is more likely that the index will reach that target price. The trader could choose to sell their one-touch option contracts for a profit or continue to hold the trade through expiration.


   Outcome #2: Price Remains Flat or Moves Away From Target Price  

Assume that a trader believed the S&P 500 would rise 5% over the next 90 days and opened a one-touch option trade to profit from that forecast. The trader paid $45 for one-touch option contracts that will pay $100 per contract if the target price is reached. Instead of rising, the index drops 3% on unexpected news a week later, which makes it less likely that the target price would be reached before the options expire. This trader may then decide to either sell the options and close the trade at a lower price for a loss or hold it in the hopes that the market recovers.
What Is OneCoin?  

OneCoin was a cryptocurrency-based Ponzi scheme. The companies behind the scheme were OneCoin Ltd. and OneLife Network Ltd., founded by Bulgarian national Ruja Ignatova, who disappeared in 2017. However, not before the scheme raised $4 billion.






OneCoin was a Ponzi scheme that pulled in $4 billion from 2014 to 2016.OneCoin was not actively traded, nor could the coins be used to purchase anything.Its founder, Ruja Ignatova, has disappeared and co-founder Sebastian Greenwood is in jail in the U.S. The company’s main business was selling course materials, which were reportedly plagiarized in most cases. Its course material business model was akin to a multi-level marketing (MLM) scheme, where course material buyers were paid to recruit new buyers. 


   Understanding OneCoin   

Ruja Ignatova started OneCoin in 2014, claiming it worked just like any other cryptocurrency. The claim was that OneCoins could be mined (with 120 billion coins available) and used to make payments, even having an e-wallet. However, there was no OneCoin blockchain model or payment system. 



The company did sell educational materials, such as courses on cryptocurrencies. This was considered its main business. The courses included other areas as well, such as trading and investing. The courses were part of a multi-level marketing (MLM) scheme, where buyers were offered rewards for bringing in more participants.



Buyers of the course packages were to receive tokens that could be used to mine OneCoins. Much of the course material offered was said to be plagiarized. 


   OneCoin Exchange  

The exchange for converting OneCoin into other currencies was the OneCoin Exchange xcoinx, which was an internal marketplace. Members were able to access the exchange if they bought more than just the beginner package. 



Selling limits were placed on the accounts based on the level of education package purchased. In January 2017, the exchange was shut down. Leading up to the shutdown, OneCoin denied the majority of withdrawal requests. The exchange was the only way for affiliates to cash out.


   OneCoin as a Fraud  

In 2016, questions started to come up about OneCoin as many countries began to investigate the company, with some calling it a pyramid scheme. The Direct Selling Association in Norway first called the OneCoin fraud a pyramid scheme in March 2016. Later that year (in December 2016), the Hungarian Central Bank warned against OneCoin being a pyramid scheme. 



In 2017, OneCoin claimed it was the first company to become licensed by the Vietnamese government and legally allowed to be used as a digital currency. The Vietnam government rebutted the claim.



In early 2018, the Bulgarian police raided the company’s office. Founder Ruja disappeared in 2017 when a warrant was filed for her arrest. Her brother, Konstantin Ignatov, replaced her as the face and manager of the company. Co-founder Greenwood was arrested in 2018 and Konstantin was arrested in November 2019.



Konstantin pleaded guilty to fraud and money laundering. Greenwood is in discussion with authorities about a possible plea deal. OneCoin was never actively traded, nor could the coins be used to purchase anything.




Has Ruja Ignatova Ever Been Found?
Ruja Ignatova, the Bulgarian founder of OneCoin, known as Cryptoqueen, has not resurfaced since going into hiding in 2017.




What Are the Biggest Crypto Ponzi Schemes?
There have been a number of other big Ponzi schemes in addition to OneCoin, the biggest crypto scheme ever. Bitconnect was exposed in 2018, ultimately crashing and causing its investors to lose $3.5 billion. PlusToken scammed investors until 2019, when it was closed down, after costing investors over $3 billion. GainBitcoin was an India-based coin that robbed investors of over $300 million before it closed down. Mining Max scammed investors out of $250 million until authorities shut it down in 2021.




How Much Is One Bitcoin Worth?
The price of Bitcoin varies, but as of June 2022, was trading at $27,333. The price has fluctuated between roughly $27,000 and $67,500 over the 12 months between June 2021 and June 2022.
What Is an Onerous Contract?  

An onerous contract is an accounting term that refers to a contract that will cost a company more to fulfill than what the company will receive in return.



The term is used in many countries worldwide, where international regulators have determined that such contracts must be accounted for on balance sheets. The United States has a different system, based on generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, as set forth by the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board.





Key Takeaways

An onerous contract is an accounting term defined under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), used in many countries around the world.Companies that follow those standards are required to report any onerous contracts they're committed to on their balance sheets.In the United States, companies typically follow a different set of accounting standards and generally don't have to account for their onerous contracts.


   Understanding Onerous Contracts  

The International Accounting Standards (IAS) defines an onerous contract as "a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it."﻿﻿



The term "unavoidable costs" also has a specific meaning for accounting purposes. The IAS defines it as "the lower of the cost of fulfilling the contract and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfill it."﻿﻿


   Onerous Contract Example  

An example of an onerous contract might be an agreement to rent a property that is no longer needed or that can no longer be made use of profitably. For instance, suppose a company signs a multiyear agreement to rent office space, then moves or downsizes while the agreement is still in effect, leaving the office space, which it now has no use for, vacant. Or consider a mining company that has signed a lease to mine for coal or some other commodity on a piece of land, but at some point during the term of the contract, the price of that commodity falls to a level that makes extracting it and bringing it to market unprofitable.


   Special Considerations  

The rules for how onerous contracts should be treated in a company's financial statements are part of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), for which the IAS Board is the independent standard-setting body. The governing body, the IFRS Foundation, is a not-for-profit organization based in London.﻿﻿



International Accounting Standard 37 (IAS 37), "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities, and Contingent Assets," classifies onerous contracts as "provisions," meaning liabilities or debts that will accrue at an uncertain time or in an unknown amount. Provisions are measured using the best estimate of the expenses required to satisfy the current obligation.﻿﻿



Under IAS 37, any business or company that identifies a contract as onerous is required to recognize the current obligation as a liability and to list that liability on its balance sheet. This process is meant to be undertaken at the first indication that the company expects a loss from the contract.﻿﻿



The IFRS and IASB standards are used by companies in many countries throughout the world, although not in the United States. The U.S. requires companies to follow another set of standards under GAAP. Under GAAP, losses, obligations, and debts on committed onerous contracts typically are not recognized or dealt with. However, the FASB has been working with the IASB to establish compatible standards worldwide.
What Is Online Banking?  

Online banking allows you to conduct financial transactions via the Internet. Online banking is also known as Internet banking or web banking.



Online banking offers customers almost every service traditionally available through a local branch including deposits, transfers, and online bill payments. Virtually every banking institution has some form of online banking you can access through a computer or app.





Key Takeaways

Online banking allows you to conduct financial transactions via the Internet.You aren't required to visit a bank branch in order to complete basic online banking transactions.You need a device, an Internet connection, and a bank card to register for online banking.


   Understanding Online Banking  

With online banking, you aren't required to visit a bank branch to complete most of your basic banking transactions. You can do all of this at your own convenience, wherever you want—at home, at work, or on the go. Online banking can be done using a browser or app. Mobile banking is online banking that is done on a phone or tablet.



Using online banking requires a computer, tablet, mobile phone, or other device, plus an Internet connection and a bank or debit card. In order to access the service, you need to register for the bank's online banking service and create a password. Once that's done, you can use the service to do your banking.



Banking transactions offered online vary by institution. Most banks generally offer basic services such as transfers and bill payments. Some banks also allow customers to open up new accounts and apply for credit cards through online banking portals. Other functions may include ordering checks, putting stop payments on checks, or reporting a change of address.



Checks can be deposited online through a mobile app using remote deposit capture. Enter the check amount, then use the app to take a photo of the front and back of the check to complete the deposit.



Online banking typically does not permit the purchase of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or certain wire transfers. It also typically does not permit the completion of certain credit applications, such as for mortgages. These transactions still need to take place face-to-face with a bank representative.






Most banks do not charge fees for online banking.


  Online Banks  

Online banks operate exclusively online, with no physical branch at all. The best online banks offer low-cost or free banking, plus above-average yields on savings accounts and tools to help you manage your money.



Online-only banks may not provide direct ATM access but will make provisions for customers to use ATMs at other banks and retail stores. They may reimburse you for some of the ATM fees charged by other financial institutions. Reduced overhead costs associated with not having physical branches typically allow online banks to offer significant savings on banking fees. They also offer higher interest rates on savings accounts.



These banks handle customer service by phone, email, or online chat, instead of in person.



Prominent online banks in the United States include Ally Bank, Discover Bank, and Synchrony Bank.


   Advantages of Online Banking  

Convenience is a major advantage of online banking. Basic banking transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds between accounts can easily be done any time of the day or night, seven days a week. If your bank offers a payment network such as Zelle, you can use your online bank account to send money to another person.



Online banking is fast and efficient. Funds can be transferred between accounts almost instantly, especially if the two accounts are held at the same institution.



You can open and close a number of different accounts online, from fixed deposits to recurring deposit accounts that typically offer higher rates of interest.



You can also monitor your accounts closely, allowing you to keep your accounts safe. Around-the-clock access to banking information provides early detection of fraudulent activity, thereby acting as a guardrail against financial damage or loss.


   Disadvantages of Online Banking  

For a novice online banking customer, using electronic systems for the first time may present challenges that prevent transactions from being processed, which is why some people prefer face-to-face transactions with a teller.






Online banking doesn't help if you need access to large amounts of cash. While you may be able to withdraw a certain amount at the automatic teller machine (ATM)—most cards come with a limit—you will have to visit a branch to get the rest.



Although online banking security is continually improving, such accounts are still vulnerable when it comes to hacking. Customers are advised to use their own data plans, rather than public wifi networks, when using online banking to prevent unauthorized access.



Additionally, online banking is dependent on a reliable Internet connection. Connectivity issues from time to time may make it difficult to determine if banking transactions have been successfully processed.




What do you need for online banking?
To use online banking, you'll need an Internet connection and a device, such as a computer or mobile phone. You might also need your bank card, debit card, or account number and routing number. You'll have to register your account, which will require you to set a password.




How can you use online banking safely?
To protect your money as well as your personal information, it's important to take advantage of the various security features your bank offers. Set a strong, unique password, and change it regularly (once a quarter is a good start). Use a password manager program to help you set and remember strong passwords. Enable two-factor or multi-factor authentication if your bank offers it. Never give your online banking details to anyone, and avoid online banking if you're using public WiFi. Check your accounts regularly, and report suspected fraud immediately.




Can you use online banking to pay bills each month?
Yes, you can use online banking to pay your bills on time every month. You can log in to your online banking account each month to arrange bill payments, or you can set up automatic payments. Online bill pay is a simple way to automate your bills and ensure you're never late on a payment. It works especially well for bills with regular, set amounts, such as a mortgage, insurance, or car payment,


   The Bottom Line  

Online banking is a fast, inexpensive, and convenient way to handle many of your everyday financial transactions.



If you already have a bank, you likely have access to online banking; all you need to do is register. And while you can use a traditional, "brick-and-mortar" bank's online banking features, choosing an online-only bank for all of your banking needs might boost the interest you earn on savings and help save money on fees.
What Is Online Shoplifting?  

Online shoplifting is the theft of goods from an Internet-based merchant. Online shoplifting might seem harmless since the shoplifter never interacts with the victim and executes the fraud with a few keystrokes and mouse clicks. It is a crime nonetheless, and online shoplifters can face serious legal problems, such as charges of mail fraud.





Key Takeaways

Online shoplifting involves stealing products from an ecommerce site.A chargeback or dispute claiming the goods were never received (although they were) is one form of online shoplifting. There are secondary effects to this type of fraud, including credit card issuers refusing to work with the merchant due to excessive chargebacks. Illegally downloading copyrighted music, books, or movies is another form of online shoplifting.


   How Online Shoplifting Works  

One way to conduct online shoplifting is through the credit card chargeback process. A consumer purchases goods online using a credit card, receives the goods, then submits a statement to the credit card company claiming that they never received the goods. As a result, the credit card company initiates a chargeback and forces the merchant to refund the customer’s purchase.



Even though the customer has never set foot in the merchant’s place of business, they have effectively shoplifted by fraudulently using the chargeback process to obtain goods without paying for them. What is more, if a credit card payment processor receives too many chargeback requests for the same company, it may stop doing business with them. The online merchant then experiences secondary damage from online shoplifting because it can no longer accept a certain brand of credit card. This might, in turn, reduce sales since the inability to accept that card will significantly inconvenience customers.



To be clear, chargebacks themselves are not fraudulent, but when consumers abuse this tool meant for consumer protection, it raises alarms with both retailers and credit card issuers. On top of the lost merchandise, the New York Times reports it can cost up to $40 on average to process a chargeback request.


   Types of Online Shoplifting  

Another way to conduct online shoplifting is through piracy. Illegally downloading copyrighted music, books, or movies for free instead of purchasing them through legitimate channels is a form of online shoplifting that simultaneously robs both producers and distributors.



The issue has posed a challenge for a number of reasons. Consumers of pirated content want it for free, or at least a very low cost. Secondly, media companies often lack the resources to respond to growing demands for free content; the digital media "underworld" moves faster than big businesses, with conglomerates of intelligent hackers and pirates joining forces across the globe. Thirdly, the proliferation of user-generated content allows anyone and everyone to create and distribute content without even realizing that they are committing copyright infringement along the way.



When it comes to finding a solution, there is no smoking gun or universal set of best practices to keep pirates away. Companies will need to assemble their asset-protection strategies in bits and pieces to minimize losses and ensure that feedback loops are in place.
What Is Online-To-Offline (O2O) Commerce?  

Online-to-offline (O2O) commerce is a business strategy that draws potential customers from online channels to make purchases in physical stores. Online-to-offline (O2O) commerce identifies customers in the online space, such as through emails and Internet advertising, and then uses a variety of tools and approaches to entice the customers to leave the online space. This type of strategy incorporates techniques used in online marketing with those used in brick-and-mortar marketing.





Key Takeaways

Online-to-offline (O2O) commerce is a business model that draws potential customers from online channels to make purchases in physical stores.Techniques that O2O commerce companies may employ include in-store pick-up of items purchased online, allowing items purchased online to be returned at a physical store, and allowing customers to place orders online while at a physical store.Amazon's purchase of Whole Foods Markets and Walmart's acquisition of Jet.com are two examples of O2O commerce.Target, Walmart, Kroger, Nordstrom, and many other retailers have increased home delivery and/or curbside pickup services as two effective O2O strategies to meet consumer needs for safe shopping options.


   How Online-To-Offline (O2O) Commerce Works  

Retailers once fretted that they would not be able to compete with e-commerce companies that sold goods online, especially in terms of price and selection. Physical stores required high fixed costs (rent) and many employees to run the stores and, because of limited space, they were unable to offer as wide a selection of goods. Online retailers could offer a vast selection without having to pay for as many employees and only needed access to shipping companies in order to sell their goods.



Some companies that have both an online presence and an offline presence (physical stores) treat the two different channels as complements rather than competitors. The goal of online-to-offline commerce is to create product and service awareness online, allowing potential customers to research different offerings and then visit the local brick-and-mortar store to make a purchase. Techniques that O2O commerce companies may employ include in-store pick-up of items purchased online, allowing items purchased online to be returned at a physical store, and allowing customers to place orders online while at a physical store.


   Special Considerations  

The rise of online-to-offline commerce has not eliminated the advantages that e-commerce companies enjoy. Companies with brick-and-mortar stores will still have customers that visit physical stores in order to see how an item fits or looks, or to compare pricing, only to ultimately make the purchase online (referred to as “showrooming”). The goal, therefore, is to attract a certain type of customer who is open to walking or driving to a local store rather than waiting for a package to arrive in the mail.






Online-to-offline (O2O) is related to, but not the same as, the concepts of "clicks-to-bricks" or "click-and-mortar" models.


   Online-To-Offline (O2O) Commerce Trends  

Consider Amazon's $13.7 billion purchase of Whole Foods in 2017 and you can see where the leader in online commerce is placing some of its bets—in physical space. Amazon will even let you pay with your Amazon Prime credit card at Whole Foods and earn 5% rewards, the same as if you used your Amazon card to pay online.



That's not to say that traditional retailers aren't hedging their bets as well. Walmart has spent mightily to bridge the gap between online users and retail locations, including its 2016 purchase of e-commerce company Jet.com for approximately $3 billion. One of Walmart's goals for the acquisition was to make inroads in reaching city dwellers and millennial customers, demographics that Jet had excelled in attracting with their massive user base that added about 400,000 new shoppers each month.



Acquiring companies that already have a huge online shopping customer base is just one O2O commerce strategy retailers like Walmart are using. Expanded services like home grocery delivery and curbside pickup are other O2O services that retailers offer. Target, Walmart, Kroger, Nordstrom, and many other retailers all offer contactless curbside pickup. This service enables shoppers to buy what they need in a safe and timely manner without having to enter the store or leave their car. Walmart executives see these types of value-added services as key to the company's growth and reported that e-commerce sales grew 97% in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2020.
What Is the Ontario Securities Commission?  

The Ontario Securities Commission (OSC) is the largest securities regulator in Canada, enforcing securities laws in the province of Ontario. As a crown corporation, the OSC is answerable to the provincial government of Ontario.


   Understanding the Ontario Securities Commission (OSC)  

The Ontario Securities Commission (OSC) regulates exchanges, alternative trading systems (ATS) and quotation and trade reporting systems (QTRS) in the province of Ontario. Like virtually all securities regulators, the OSC works to maintain market integrity and investor confidence by enforcing securities laws. Specifically, the OSC enforces the Securities Act and the Commodity Futures Act, both of Ontario.



The OSC develops securities rules by consulting with the Canadian public, advisory committees and international organizations. The commission is empowered to take a range of actions to enforce compliance with Ontario securities law. It can issue a cease trade order, order the restatement and refiling of financial statements, and add conditions to a registration. It can also, following an enforcement proceeding, impose sanctions and even fines, but recovering damages for defrauded investors is not within its purview.


   The Ontario Securities Commission and SROs  

The OSC currently recognizes two self-regulatory organizations (SRO), the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC) and the Mutual Fund Dealers Association (MFDA). The three organizations divide up compliance review duties. The OSC reviews advisers, exempt market dealers, scholarship plan dealers and fund managers. The IIROC reviews investment dealers and futures commission merchants. The MFDA reviews mutual fund dealers. These regulatory bodies may subject a firm to a compliance review based on complaints, as part of a broad sweep or at random.  


   Limitations of the Ontario Securities Commission  

While the OSC’s mandate to “foster fair and efficient markets” may seem quite broad, there are limits on its ability to regulate in legal gray areas. For example, in 2017, Canadian markets were disrupted by illegal short and distort campaigns, in which short sellers spread false information to drive down the price of the stock they’re shorting. When investors demanded the OSC take action, the commission explained that there is often little it can do without specific evidence of intentionally fraudulent statements. That can be difficult to find, and in some cases, short-sellers are rattling markets without relying on false information at all. They are simply identifying a company they believe is overvalued and shorting it while actively campaigning for its price to drop. While the OSC and IIROC have certain tools to put a damper on the short selling of a stock, they are typically averse to using them, fearing their interference may be more disruptive than the short campaign.
What Is the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board (OTPPB)?  

The Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board (OTPPB) oversees the retirement plan that was established for the benefit of public school teachers in Ontario.





Key Takeaways

The Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board (OTPPB) oversees the retirement plan established for the benefit of public school teachers in Ontario, Canada.The OTPPB manages a variety of assets, including international equities, bonds, commodities, and real estate.The pension board oversees investment assets of nearly $200 billion, serving the needs of more than 300,000 retirees and employees.


   Understanding the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board (OTPPB)  

The Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board (OTPPB) administers the defined benefit plan shared by teachers at public schools in Ontario, the most populous province in Canada. The board was established in 1990 and has since become one of the largest investment funds in Canada.



As of the beginning of 2022, the pension plan held approximately CAD $227.7 billion in investments. These assets serve the needs of more than 300,000 retirees and employees. Prior to the establishment of OTPPB, teachers’ pensions were managed wholly by the provincial government.



Under the government's oversight, the pension fund invested exclusively in low-risk government bonds. A significant part of OTPPB's mandate at its inception was to create a more sophisticated and diversified investment regime. At the same time, the plan’s obligations to current and future retirees require it to maintain a conservative approach to risk.



Like any pension fund, OTPPB’s fundamental goal is to manage funding risk, the risk that assets and returns fail to satisfy the plan’s obligations to its participants. OTPPB now manages a variety of assets, including international equities, commodities, natural resources, and real estate.


   The OTPPB and the Canadian Model  

OTPPB was an early pioneer in the development of a pension management style known as the Canadian Model. Other pension funds such as the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System (OMERS) have followed suit, and Canadian plans have achieved a global reputation as leaders in effective and responsible management. The OTPPB describes the pillars of this system as independence, strong internal governance starting with board members, direct investment, and a focus on retaining talent.



In practice, the first step in this innovation was to bring investment management almost entirely in-house. This often means that the board will enter into deals directly rather than use a private equity firm as an intermediary. Managing investments directly allows OTPPB to keep costs low and to keep to a long-term approach that can conflict with the investment strategies of non-pension funds.



OTPPB has also achieved success by maintaining a board that has avoided political concerns that have often struck other public pension institutions. Board members have tended to come from backgrounds in finance rather than political or public service. Large funds in the United States, by contrast, tend to have boards drawn from a wider range of backgrounds, often leading to conflicts in oversight.



Finally, OTPPB’s version of the Canadian Model includes executive pay that is out of scale with its counterparts in the United States. OTPPB executive pay is competitive with Bay Street, the investment community in Toronto, and is structured to reward long-term returns. Pension managers in the United States, for comparison, tend to receive compensation far below the norms of Wall Street.
What Is Opaque Pricing?  

Opaque pricing is a way that companies can sell their merchandise at hidden, lower prices. Opaque pricing is a type of price discrimination, with the target customer being the one who will purchase a product or service primarily based on price (price-conscious customer)—and not based on the company’s amenities, reputation, etc.


   How Opaque Pricing Works  

The opaque pricing strategy is popular in the travel industry. Websites like Hotwire and Priceline use it to sell unsold hotel rooms, airline tickets, and car rentals. Customers who wish to take advantage of an opaque pricing structure visit a website which offers hidden rates, choose their location, dates, and (for hotels) star-rating. After paying, the website will reveal the name of the hotel but doesn’t allow for refunds, changes, or cancellations.



Opaque pricing benefits hotels because they can sell otherwise empty rooms without damaging brand integrity. In addition, once reserved, the hotel has guaranteed revenue for that room as the reservation can’t be modified.






The big benefit of opaque pricing used by hotels is that it allows them to sell otherwise empty rooms without damaging brand integrity.


   Benefits of Opaque Pricing  

While a seller would ideally like to charge the maximum price a buyer is willing to pay, the seller doesn’t actually know what that maximum is. And the buyer has no incentive to tell, as anyone who has haggled with a car salesman well knows.



This is why sellers create segmented offerings as a way to get at least some customers to pay more. For example, airlines offer first-class seats at a dramatically higher price per unit of space consumed—the buyer gets more space and the prestige of flying in first class and the airline gets an order of magnitude higher revenue per customer for the same flight—often 10x more.





Key Takeaways

Opaque pricing allows companies to sell products or services at hidden, lower prices. This type of pricing is targeted at price-conscious customers, as opposed to reputation or amenities, and is often used in the travel industry. Other opaque pricing techniques include age-based discounts, channel-based discounts, volume discounts, and geography-based pricing differences.


   Types of Opaque Pricing  

Other techniques of opaque pricing include charging a high starting price and then lowering price through age-based discounts (movie tickets for kids and senior citizens), channel-based discounts (online versus offline), volume discounts (frequent flyer programs), and geography-based pricing differences (enterprise software).


   Special Considerations  

The market clearing price for products usually still leaves a seller with excess inventory—open seats on a flight, for example. However, the marginal cost of that inventory is often so low that it is usually possible to sell it for a profit, but doing so means that people who would have bought the product at a higher price will now pay less and aggregate revenue will decrease. By selling a hotel room through a bundled vacation package, a seller dramatically decreases the likelihood of cannibalizing their own revenue.
What Is an Opco?  

Opco is the abbreviation for "operating company," typically used when describing the primary operating company involved in an opco/propco deal, which is the most common structure for spinning off a real estate investment trust (REIT).



The property company (propco) maintains ownership of all real estate and related debt, while the opco conducts day-to-day operations and management, offering the opco advantages related to its credit rating and financing capabilities.





Key Takeaways

Opco is the abbreviation for "operating company," typically used when describing the primary operating company involved in an opco/propco deal that structures a REIT.In an opco/propco deal strategy, companies are divided into at least an operating company and a property company in order to improve the finances of both prospects.There are functional and strategic differences between real estate operating companies and REITs, but REITs do not need to operate the properties.


   How Does an Opco Work?  

An operating company/property company ("opco/propco") deal is a business arrangement in which a subsidiary company (i.e., the property company) owns all of the revenue-generating properties, while the main company (operating company) manages operations without direct property ownership itself. Opco/propco deals allow all financing and credit rating related issues for both companies to remain separate, thus improving each entity's financial position.



In an opco/propco deal strategy, companies are divided into at least one operating company and one property company. While the property company owns all of the assets—including real estate or other property—that are associated with the generation of revenues, the opco is the one that uses the assets to generate sales.



An opco/propco strategy makes it possible for companies to keep certain elements—namely debt and thus debt service obligations, credit ratings, and related issues—off of the books of the operating company. This typically presents the company with considerable financial advantages and savings. If the operating company creates a REIT for all of its real estate holdings, it can avoid double taxation on all of its income distributions. When credit markets become more constricted, or when property values take a plunge, opco/propco deal strategies are not as practical and in many instances are not even feasible.


   Example of an Opco  

Casino companies, which often function in a sense as entertainment or resort REITS, may consider opco/propco restructuring to create shareholder value and to streamline operations. The model for this is the 2013 restructuring of Penn National Gaming Inc., where the casino company received permission from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to perform a tax-free spinoff of its properties into a new REIT.



Penn National Gaming thus spun off the REIT Gaming and Leisure Properties, transferring all ownership of real estate assets to the newly formed REIT. After completing this spinoff, Gaming and Leisure Properties then leased the properties back to Penn National Gaming who operated them.



The special tax rules that exist on Penn National Gaming's REIT prevent the propco from having to pay federal income tax on any rents obtained from the opco. Penn National Gaming's REIT also has a significantly lower interest rate than a gaming company. In addition, because Penn National Gaming eliminated all of the direct debt related to the property by assigning ownership to its REIT, the opco's lightened balance sheet permits the casino company to borrow the funds it needs to operate and also to dump into further development and expansion of its casinos.


   REOCs and REITs  

There are functional and strategic differences between real estate operating companies (REOCs) and REITs. Many REITs focus their investment and portfolio strategy to generate cash flow through the rent or leases generated by the properties they hold. Investments made by a REIT in a construction project and acquisitions might be aimed at generating rental income from the property. That net income primarily goes toward distributions issued to investors.



A real estate operating company might fund new construction and then sell the property for a return. The company could also buy a property, refurbish the building, and then resell the real estate for a profit. A REOC could likewise serve as a management company that oversees the properties.



The earnings that a real estate operating company generates can largely be reinvested in projects such as acquisitions, refurbishments, and new construction. This allows a REOC to fill up its portfolio relatively quickly with potential long-term prospects. This can be contrasted with regulations that require REITs to distribute most of their net income to their shareholders as dividends. There may be the potential for greater growth prospects with a REOC but they might not generate as much immediate income as REITs.
What Is an Operating Company/Property Company Deal (Opco/Propco)?  

An operating company/property company (opco/propco) deal is a business arrangement in which a subsidiary company (i.e., the property company or "propco") owns all of the revenue-generating properties instead of the main company (the operating company or "opco.")



Opco/propco deals allow all financing and credit rating-related issues for both companies to remain separate. This business structure is common in real estate deals and in the structuring of real estate investment trusts (REITs).





Key Takeaways

Opco/propco business arrangements result in a subsidiary or property company (the propco) holding or owning all of the assets and real estate that the main operating company (the opco) uses to generate revenues.Opco/propco deals can help the parent company benefit as financing and credit terms are independent of the operating company.In addition to loan independence, these types of deals can have tax advantages for the parent company.Although some may consider these types of deals tax loopholes, they are entirely legal and are generally considered the mark of an intelligent business.


   Understanding Operating Company/Property Company Deals (Opco/Propco)  

Parent companies can be conglomerates or holding companies. A conglomerate, such as General Electric, owns companies with distinct business models in addition to its core operations. In contrast, a holding company is created with the specific purpose of holding a group of subsidiaries and does not conduct its business operations. Holding companies normally form to realize tax advantages.



Master limited partnerships, or MLPs, also employ a similar parent/subsidiary structure. Most MLPs are publicly traded. For tax purposes, investors may choose how they would like to receive the income the company generates.



A MLP has a pass-through tax structure, meaning that all profits and losses are passed through to the limited partners. The MLP itself is not liable for corporate taxes on its revenues and thus avoids the double taxation of most corporations. Most MLPs operate in the energy industry. Subsidiaries own shares (officially units) of the parent company MLP, redistributing the passive income through the corporation as a regular dividend.


   Criticisms of an Operating Company/Property Company Deal (Opco/Propco)  

Opco-propco arrangements allow the operating company to rent or lease property from the property company. In practice, this looks like a sale and a leaseback. However, the company never relinquishes the property in any real way, as the propco and opco are part of the same group of companies.



While this might sound like the corporate equivalent of having your cake and eating it, there can be several downsides to creating a propco. If a business works out of multiple locations rather than a primary one, a propco arrangement locks the company into a situation where closing any location becomes more difficult.



In a traditional business setup, for example, a company might choose to close an underperforming location or office, and likely sell the property. By contrast, in a propco arrangement, the propco owns the property and may not choose to offload it if the market won't return enough to cover the debts.



As a result, the opco may be required to pay rent on a property, even if it is not utilizing it, because the propco depends on that income to service the debt-financed off the properties. 


   Example of an Operating Company/Property Company Deal (Opco/Propco)  

In the U.K., opco/propco deals are a very popular method in which a parent company can create a REIT. A REIT owns, operates, and/or finances real estate that produces income. Most REITs specialize in a specific sector, such as office REITs or healthcare REITs. In general, REITs will pass on collected rent payments to investors in the form of dividends.



The creation of a REIT via an opco/propco deal can occur by initially selling income-generating assets from the operating company to a subsidiary. The subsidiary then leases the property back to the operating company. The operating company can subsequently spin off the subsidiary as a REIT. The advantage of doing this is that the company can then avoid double taxation on its income distributions.
What Is the OPEC Basket?  

The OPEC Basket is a weighted average of oil prices from the different OPEC members around the world. Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) contribute data that forms the basis of the basket. The basket is a benchmark, or reference point, for those monitoring the oil price and the stability of the global oil market.



The OPEC Basket is also known as the OPEC Reference Basket (ORB) or the OPEC Reference Basket of Crude.





Key Takeaways

The OPEC Basket is a weighted average of oil prices from the different OPEC members around the world.The main use of the OPEC Basket is setting and achieving OPEC price targets.Since it is just an average, an OPEC Basket is not a type of crude oil that businesses can buy directly.


   Understanding the OPEC Basket  

The OPEC Basket depends on specific petroleum blends from OPEC member countries and is a weighted average. A weighted average is a mean, calculated by giving values to data influenced according to some attribute. In the case of the OPEC Basket, the defining characteristic is the weight of the crude oil.



As of December 2020, the OPEC Basket averaged the prices of crude oils from thirteen member states.﻿﻿ They included Saharan Blend from Algeria, Girassol from Angola, Djeno from Congo, Zafiro from Equatorial Guinea, and Rabi Light from Gabon. Iran Heavy, Basra Light from Iraq, Kuwait Export, and Es Sider from Libya were also part of the basket. Bonny Light from Nigeria, Arab Light from Saudi Arabia, Murban from the United Arab Emirates, and Merey from Venezuela round out the list.



Some of the OPEC oils have higher sulfur content than crude oils from other countries. Hydrocarbons or crude oil that have higher sulfur contents are more expensive to refine. Because of that, the price of the OPEC Basket is generally lower than other oil reference prices.






Crude oil with excessive impurities is unsuitable for many uses unless it is extensively processed.



Many other countries throughout the world also produce oil. However, they are not OPEC members. Russia, the United States, China, and Canada are all major oil producers but not OPEC members. OPEC’s member countries produce a substantial fraction of the world’s oil.



Oil prices matter a great deal to the global economy because the production and distribution of all consumer goods depend on petroleum. Oil fuels the trucks that transport goods, the tractors that plow agricultural fields, the cars that consumers use to get to the market, and much more. OPEC provides a way for the member oil-producing countries to create stable market conditions for themselves by raising or lowering production.


   The OPEC Basket vs. Other Crude Oil Benchmarks  

There are many different crude oil benchmarks, representing more than 200 varieties of crude oil. They vary substantially in both price and overall quality. Some of the leading alternatives to the OPEC Basket include:



West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil is a lighter, higher quality oil. It sells for about $5 to $6 more than the OPEC Basket price.
The Brent blend from the North Sea is generally refined in Northwestern Europe. It sells at about $4 above the OPEC Basket price.


   Benefits of the OPEC Basket  

The main use of the OPEC Basket is setting and achieving OPEC price targets. Whenever people hear news stories about OPEC raising oil prices, the price they are hearing about is the OPEC Basket price. There is a substantial competition between various crude oils because most of them are relatively close substitutes. However, the direct goal of OPEC members is to raise the price that they receive for their own oil in the global market. Since the OPEC Basket is a weighted average of OPEC members' oil prices, it is ideal for setting the organization's goals and measuring its success.


   Criticism of the OPEC Basket  

Since it is just an average, the OPEC Basket is not a type of unrefined oil that businesses can buy directly. Instead, they must buy some particular oil, such as Kuwait Export or Arab Light. These crude oils vary in price and quality, so the OPEC Basket is not very useful for oil refineries.


   Real-World Example of the OPEC Basket  

On April 26, 2018, the OPEC Basket stood at $71 per barrel. This price represents a steady rise over the previous month. On March 26, 2018, the ORB was $66.80. A year before, it stood at about $51.47 and rose steadily throughout 2017.
What Is Open?  

The term "open" appears in several usages in the financial markets. However, there are two that hold particular significance, depending on the context in which they are used.



The open is the starting period of trading on a securities exchange or organized over-the-counter market.An order to buy or sell securities is considered to be open, or in effect, until it is either canceled by the customer, until it is executed, or until it expires.


   Understanding Open  
  Market Open  

Depending on the exchange or venue, the open may be the first executed trade price for that particular day. It is very likely that the open price will not be the same as the previous day's closing price. 



Other venues might sample trading for a short period of time near the beginning of the official trading day and create an official open. It may or may not be the same as the price of the first trade. This may be the method used for securities that have very little trading activity and may just be the previous day's close.



Different exchanges will have different opening times. For instance, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq open at 9:30 am EST, whereas the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) opens trading in U.S. Treasury securities futures at 8:20 am EST (7:20 CST).


  Order Open  

The primary reason why an order remains open is that it carries conditions, such as price limits or stop levels, unlike a market order. A limit order to buy, entered when the current traded price of the security is already above that limit price, will not execute until such time that the market declines to meet it. A buy stop order will not turn into a market order until the security reaches a specified price level.



Another reason may simply be the lack of liquidity for that particular security. If there are no established bids and offers by market makers or other traders then no trading occurs.



There is a related use for the term open that is of interest to futures and options traders. Open interest is the total number of open or outstanding options or futures contracts that exist at a given time. Unlike the stock market, where the number of shares outstanding is fixed by the company itself and does not change very often, open interest in the derivatives markets changes constantly. This can yield important information to traders and analysts about how aggressively market participants act in rising and falling price trends.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Open Architecture?  

Open architecture is used to describe a financial institution's ability to offer clients both proprietary and external products and services. Open architecture ensures that a client can satisfy all their financial needs and that the investment firm can act in each client’s best interests by recommending the financial products best suited to that client, even if they are not proprietary products. Open architecture helps investment firms avoid the conflict of interest that would exist if the firm only recommended its own products.





Key Takeaways

In finance, open architecture refers to when a bank or investment firm offers both in-house and third-party products and services to its clients.The goal is to create a one-stop shop of clients, who do not have to shop around several firms to get the offerings that they want or are best-suited for.Open architecture has resulted in greater fee competition and transparency, which benefits investors.


   Open Architecture Explained  

Financial advisers who work for financial institutions with an open architecture approach can potentially meet their clients’ needs better than advisers who work for proprietary institutions. Advisers receive a fee for their recommendations in an open architecture setting rather than the commission they would earn in a proprietary setting. At their best, open architecture can improve the client’s asset allocation and diversification, offer lower fees, and provide better returns. It also fosters an environment of increased trust between clients and advisers.



Open architecture has become much more common as investors have gotten smarter and demanded more options from financial institutions. One result of open architecture is that brokerage firms have had to rely less on earning fees from their own funds and more on earning fees for offering high-quality financial advice.


   Reasons for Open Architecture   

A single brokerage may not offer all the financial products a client needs or that are in a client’s best interests. In fact, the greater the wealth of a client usually will mean a greater need for a wider range of products and services. Open architecture makes it possible for investors and their advisers to select the best funds available and obtain the best potential investment performance given their needs and risk tolerance. Open architecture also helps investors obtain better diversification and possibly reduce risk by not placing their entire future investment returns in the hands of a single investment firm and its approach.



Brokerage firms and banks that limit clients’ choices through a closed architecture approach, where investors can only choose that firm’s or bank’s funds, put themselves at risk of client lawsuits over fiduciary negligence.


   Questions to Ask About Open Architecture  

Those considering investing via an open architecture platform should consider the fact that open architecture has no legal definition and no regulation so it can be ripe for abuse.



For example, one downside of open architecture is that some firms increase the costs for investors to purchase outside funds to encourage investment in their own funds, a practice called “guided architecture.” For example, a company’s 401(k) plan, managed by an investment brokerage, might have the lowest fees for that brokerage’s own funds. While it might allow investors to purchase funds from other brokerages, it might impose a $25 commission on each trade, discouraging going outside the architecture to invest. Guided architecture can be hard to spot, as fees tend to be well-hidden and therefore hard to compare. A good rule of thumb is to assume that if a third-party is involved in getting an external fund onto a platform, there will be at least one more layer of fees.



Investors looking at an open architecture firm should first ask about their capabilities and whether their advice will feed into the planning of a portfolio. Some firms have investment management and planning in separate areas where they don't interact. Would-be clients should also ask whether a relationship manager can implement given advice. If not, there will be the inconvenience of having to go elsewhere for implementation. An investor should ask who they will be interacting with over time. A team that can handle the client's life stages is preferable.
What Is Open Banking?  

Open banking is also known as "open bank data." Open banking is a banking practice that provides third-party financial service providers open access to consumer banking, transaction, and other financial data from banks and non-bank financial institutions through the use of application programming interfaces (APIs). Open banking will allow the networking of accounts and data across institutions for use by consumers, financial institutions, and third-party service providers. Open banking is becoming a major source of innovation that is poised to reshape the banking industry.





Key Takeaways

Open banking is the system of allowing access and control of consumer banking and financial accounts through third-party applications.Open banking has the potential to reshape the competitive landscape and consumer experience of the banking industry. Open banking raises the potential for both promising gains and grave risks to consumers as more of their data is shared more widely.


   Understanding Open Banking  

Under open banking, banks allow access and control of customers personal and financial data to third-party service providers, which are typically tech startups and online financial service vendors. Customers are normally required to grant some kind of consent to let the bank allow such access, such as checking a box on a terms-of-service screen in an online app. Third-party providers APIs can then use the customer's shared data (and data about the customer's financial counterparties). Uses might include comparing the customer's accounts and transaction history to a range of financial service options, aggregating data across participating financial institutions and customers to create marketing profiles, or making new transactions and account changes on the customer's behalf.


   The Promise of Open Banking  

Open banking is a driving force of innovation in the banking industry. By relying on networks instead of centralization, open banking can help financial services customers to securely share their financial data with other financial institutions. For example, open banking APIs can facilitate the sometimes onerous process of switching from using one bank's checking account service to another bank's. The API can also look at consumers' transaction data to identify the best financial products and services for them, such as a new savings account that would earn a higher interest rate than the current savings account or a different credit card with a lower interest rate.



Through the use of networked accounts, open banking could help lenders get a more accurate picture of a consumer's financial situation and risk level in order to offer more profitable loan terms. It could also help consumers get a more accurate picture of their own finances before taking on debt. An open banking app for customers who want to buy a home could automatically calculate what customers can afford based on all the information in their accounts, perhaps providing a more reliable picture than mortgage lending guidelines currently provide. Another app might help visually impaired customers better understand their finances through voice commands. Open banking can also help small businesses save time through online accounting and help fraud detection companies better monitor customer accounts and identify problems sooner.



Open banking will force large, established banks to be more competitive with smaller and newer banks, ideally resulting in lower costs, better technology, and better customer service. Established banks will have to do things in new ways that they are not currently set up to handle and spend money to adopt new technology. However, banks can take advantage of this new technology to strengthen customer relationships and customer retention by better helping customers to manage their finances instead of simply facilitating transactions.



Before banks offered open banking, the closest thing available were aggregation sites like Mint or Personal Capital that combine users' account information from all their financial institutions so they can see it in one place. Such services accomplish this by requiring users to hand over their usernames and passwords for each account, then scraping the data off the screens of those accounts. This practice has security risks and the results of screen scraping are not always entirely accurate, making it difficult at times for users to identify transactions. In addition, users may find that not all of their financial accounts are compatible with account aggregation services, preventing them from getting a true or complete picture of their finances. APIs are considered a more secure option because they enable applications to share data directly without sharing account credentials.


   Risks of Open Banking  

Open banking may offer benefits in the form of convenient access to financial data and services to consumers and streamlining some costs for financial institutions. However it also potentially poses severe risks to financial privacy and the security of consumers' finances, as well as resulting liabilities to financial institutions. Open banking APIs are not without security risks, such as the potential for a malicious third-party app to clean out a customer's account. This would be an extreme (and less likely) threat. Much broader concerns would simply be data breaches due to poor security, hacking, or insider threats that have become relatively widespread in the modern era, including at financial institutions, and will likely remain commonplace as more data becomes interconnected in more ways.



Open banking is likely to alter the competitive landscape of the financial services industry, which could benefit consumers by increasing competition as described above, but could also have the reverse effect and increase consumer costs if it leads to consolidation in financial services, due to the natural economies of scale from big data and network effects. Resulting market concentration and associate pricing power could more than offset any cost advantages to consumers. Such market consolidation has already been seen and widely criticized in other internet-based services, such as online shopping, search engines, and social media, in that it is widely believed by consumers and regulators to result in misuse of customers' data by tech giants for their own benefit. Beyond the direct costs of market concentration, similar misuse of customers private financial data could ultimately raise even greater concerns.
What Is Open Cover?  

Open cover is a type of marine insurance policy in which the insurer agrees to provide coverage for all cargo shipped during the policy period. Open cover insurance is most commonly purchased by companies that make frequent shipments, as the blanket coverage keeps them from having to purchase a new policy each time a shipment is made.





Key Takeaways

Open cover is insurance provided to companies engaged in the marine business.An insurer provides insurance to all of the cargo shipped under an open cover marine policy.The insurance policy for open cover can be either a renewable policy for each shipment or a permanent policy, covering many shipments.Risks to cargo include sinking, piracy, damage from loading/unloading, and infestation.A policyholder must disclose all pertinent information and fill out certificates with detailed information regarding each shipment.Countries govern their waters, so marine insurance regulations are under the control of the governments where any losses may occur.


   Understanding Open Cover  

Open cover policies are commonly used in international trade, specifically by companies involved in high volume trade over long periods of time. There are many risks associated with marine shipping that would lead to a company wanting to purchase marine insurance. Some of these risks include damage to cargo from loading or unloading, infestation, sinking, piracy, weather issues, and other similar difficulties. Marine insurance is typically split between insurance for the ship, known as hull and machinery, and the cargo. Each would be required to have their own insurance policy.



If a company believes it will not be engaging in marine activity that often, it can opt to buy a renewable policy, where it can renew the policy after it expires if needed. This means that for every voyage it would renew the open cover policy. Most marine companies opt for a permanent policy for a specific time period if they expect to be making numerous voyages in that time frame.



The permanent policy covers all voyages under that time period without having to negotiate a contract for each shipment. It is a form of blanket coverage that only requires certain details to be notified before embarking on the voyage.



Since the insured is agreeing to purchase a longer-term contract, it may be able to realize lower premiums because the insurer does not have to spend time on administrative activities and the insurer benefits from having a guaranteed premium over a longer period of time. Premiums are typically paid upon declaration of a voyage, for example, weekly or monthly.



Individual countries manage insurance regulations for international shipping, rather than an international organization. Scandinavian countries and the U.K. are well-known marine insurance policy providers, and China is also growing as an underwriter country.


   Facultative vs. Open Cover  

Marine insurance is typically divided into two types: facultative and open cover. Facultative insurance gives the insurance company the option of covering cargo. However, the insured and the insurer must negotiate the terms for each shipment, including the type of coverage, cargo, and ship.



Open cover insurance differs in that the insurer is obligated to provide coverage, provided that the cargo falls within the boundaries outlined in the insurance policy document, and the shipment happens within the policy time period. This makes open cover insurance a form of treaty reinsurance.


   Requirements for Open Cover  

In some respects, an open cover insurance policy is considered a contract of “utmost good faith,” meaning that the insured must voluntarily reveal to the insurer all information pertinent to the accepted risks. Failure to do so could void an open cover policy. To aid in this disclosure requirement, the insurance company provides certificates to be filled out every time cargo is sent.



The value of the cargo, the proposed travel period, and the location are recorded in the certificate. The terms of an open cover policy will set a maximum value for the cargo to be covered within a defined time period. Once the maximum value is reached, a new agreement should be signed between both parties. Since countries govern their waters, marine insurance regulations are under the control of the governments where any losses may occur, not the insured company's regulations or their governments.
What Is Open-End Credit?  

Open-end credit is a loan from a bank or other financial institution that the borrower can draw on repeatedly, up to a certain pre-approved amount, and that has no fixed end date for full repayment. Open-end credit is also referred to as revolving credit. Credit cards are one common example.





Key Takeaways


Open-end credit is a type of loan that the borrower can draw money from repeatedly up to a certain pre-approved limit.
Unlike closed-end credit, it has no fixed end date for repayment.
When the borrower repays some of the money they have borrowed, it restores that portion of their pre-approved limit.
Credit cards and lines of credit are examples of open-end credit and are also referred to as revolving credit.
Open-end credit is different from closed-end credit, in which the borrower receives money in a lump sum and must pay it back by a fixed end date.
Mortgages and car loans are examples of closed-end credit.



   How Open-End Credit Works  

Open-end credit is credit that you can withdraw from and repay repeatedly for an indefinite amount of time. Types of open-end credit include a line of credit or a credit card, which are also considered revolving credit.



With open-end credit, when you repay what you owe, the amount of credit you have available increases again.



Here are some examples of open-end credit:


  Credit Cards  

With a credit card, for example, the card issuer will set a credit limit based on such factors as the card holder's income and credit score. If, for example, the limit is set at $20,000, the cardholder can spend up to that much. If they spend $5,000 in a month, they would then have $15,000 left to spend on that card.



Once the cardholder has paid back the $5,000, their credit limit will be back at $20,000. Each month they will also be charged interest on their outstanding balance and have to make at least a minimum monthly payment. This cycle can continue for as long as the credit card holder keeps that card.


  Personal Lines of Credit  

Lines of credit come in a variety of forms. Personal lines of credit serve much the same purpose as credit cards. In most cases, the borrower can take out money whenever they wish, up to the pre-established limit.



Most personal lines of credit are unsecured, meaning that they aren't backed by any collateral from the borrower, but based instead on the lender's assessment of the borrower's creditworthiness.


  Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs)  

Home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) are an example of secured lines of credit. The lender will open a line of credit based on the amount of equity that the homeowner has in their home. The home serves as collateral.



Like other lines of credit, HELOCs can be useful if the borrower needs access to money but not all at once. For example, someone might take out a $50,000 HELOC to finance a remodeling project that they plan to do, and pay for, in stages.



A home equity loan, by contrast, is an example of a closed-end loan. The borrower receives a lump sum of money (such as the $50,000 in the example above) all at once. They must then repay it in installments until it is fully paid off by a certain end date. Closed-end loans are sometimes referred to as installment loans, with mortgages, car loans, and student loans being common examples.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Open-End Credit  

Like any type of credit, open-end credit has both pros and cons to consider.



A major advantage of open-end credit is that the borrower has to pay interest only on the amount they use. For example, someone with a $50,000 home equity line of credit who has borrowed $10,000 from it so far will only owe interest on that $10,000, not the other $40,000. If, on the other hand, they had taken out a home equity loan for $50,000, they would start owing interest on the full amount from day one.



Another advantage is that open-end credit can be used for just about any purpose. Credit cards are the most obvious example, but this is true for lines of credit as well. Closed-end credit, by contrast, is issued on the condition that it be used for a specific purpose, such as to buy a house or a car.



Flexibility is an advantage, but it also has risks as well. Revolving loans may even encourage overspending. That could be a particular danger for someone with multiple credit cards, each with its own credit limit.



In addition, credit cards and other forms of open-end credit often have variable rather than fixed interest rates that can increase.




Does Open-End Credit Help Your Credit Score?
Open-end credit can either help or hurt your credit score, depending on how you use it. If you have a credit card, for example, and reliably make at least the minimum required payment each month, that can help your credit score. However, if you max out your card, or get too close to its credit limit, that will affect your credit utilization ratio, which can lower your score.




What Is a Credit Utilization Ratio?
Your credit utilization ratio is a measure of the amount of debt you have outstanding at any given time compared to the amount of credit you have available to you. For example, if you have a credit card with a $20,000 credit limit and owe $10,000 on it, your credit utilization ratio on that card is 50%.




What Is a Good Credit Utilization Ratio?
Credit scores, and prospective lenders, typically favor credit utilization ratios of 30% or less, and the lower, the better.


  The Bottom Line  

Open-end loans are useful in a variety of situations and offer flexibility that closed-end loans do not. At the same time, some borrowers can get into an unmanageable amount of debt with them. To stay out of trouble it's a good idea to keep an eye on your credit limit and try not to get too close to it.
What Is an Open-End Fund?  

An open-end fund is a diversified portfolio of pooled investor money that can issue an unlimited number of shares. The fund sponsor sells shares directly to investors and redeems them as well. These shares are priced daily based on their current net asset value (NAV). Some mutual funds, hedge funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are types of open-end funds.



These are more common than their counterpart, closed-end funds, and are the bulwark of the investment options in company-sponsored retirement plans, such as a 401(k).





Key Takeaways

An open-end fund is an investment vehicle that uses pooled assets, which allows for ongoing new contributions and withdrawals from investors of the pool.As a result, open-ended funds have a theoretically unlimited number of potential shares outstanding.Some mutual funds and exchange-traded funds are both types of open-end funds.Open-end shares do not trade on exchanges and are priced at their portfolio's net asset value (NAV) at the end of each day.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How an Open-End Fund Works  

An open-end fund issues shares as long as buyers want them. It is always open to investment—hence, the name, open-end fund. Purchasing shares cause the fund to create new—replacement—shares, whereas selling shares takes them out of circulation. Shares are bought and sold on demand at their NAV. The daily basis of the net asset value is on the value of the fund’s underlying securities and is calculated at the end of the trading day. If a large number of shares are redeemed, the fund may sell some of its investments to pay the selling investors.



An open-end fund provides investors an easy, low-cost way to pool money and purchase a diversified portfolio reflecting a specific investment objective. Investing objectives include investing for growth or income, and in large-cap or small-cap companies, among others. Further, the funds can target investments into specific industries or countries. Investors typically do not need a lot of money to gain entry into an open-end fund, making the fund easily accessible for all levels of investors.



Occasionally, when a fund's investment management determines that a fund's total assets have become too large to execute its stated objective effectively, the fund will be closed to new investors. In extreme cases, some funds will be closed to additional investment by existing fund shareholders.



Open-end funds are so familiar—virtually synonymous with mutual funds—that many investors may not realize they are not the only type of fund in town. This type of investment fund is not even the original type of investment fund. Closed-end funds are older than mutual funds by several decades, dating back to 1893, according to the Closed-End Fund Center.


   The Difference of Closed-End Funds  

Closed-end funds launch through an initial public offering (IPO) and sell on the open market. The closed-end fund shares trade on an exchange and are more liquid. They price trades at a discount or premium to the NAV based on supply and demand throughout the trading day.



Since closed-end funds do not have that requirement, they may invest in illiquid stocks, securities or in markets such as real estate. Closed-end funds may impose additional costs through wide bid-ask spreads for illiquid funds, and volatile premium/discount to NAV. Closed-end funds demand that shares be traded through a broker. Most of the time, investors can also receive the intrinsic value price for the underlying assets of the portfolio when selling.


   Pros and Cons of Open-End Funds  

Both open- and closed-end funds are run by portfolio managers with the help of analysts. Both types of funds mitigate security-specific risk by holding diversified investments, and by having lower investment and operating costs due to the pooling of investor funds.



An open-end fund has unlimited shares issued by the fund and receive a NAV value at the end of the trading day. Investors who trade during a business day must wait until the end of trading to realize any gains or losses from the open-end fund.



Also, open-end funds must maintain large cash reserves as a portion of their portfolios. They do this in case they need to meet shareholder redemptions. Since these funds must be kept in reserve and not invested, the yields to open-end funds are usually lower. Open-end funds typically provide more security, whereas closed-end funds often provide a bigger return.



Because management must continually adjust holding to meet investor demand, the management fees for these funds are usually higher than other funds. Open-end funds investors enjoy greater flexibility in buying and selling shares since the sponsoring fund family always makes a market in them.





Pros

Hold diversified portfolios, lessening risk
Offer professional money management
Are highly liquid
Require low investment minimums



Cons

Are priced just once a day
Must maintain high cash reserves
Charge high fees and expenses (if actively managed)
Post lower yields (than closed-end funds)





   Real World Example of an Open-End Fund  

Fidelity's Magellan Fund, one of the investment company's earliest open-end funds, aimed at capital appreciation. It was founded in 1963, and during the late 1970s and 1980s, it became a legend for regularly beating the stock market. As of June 2021, it had a lifetime return of 16.14%.



Its portfolio manager, Peter Lynch, was close to a household name. The fund became so popular, with assets hitting US$100 billion that in 1997, Fidelity closed the fund to new investors for nearly a decade. It reopened in 2008.
What Is an Open-End Lease?  

An open-end lease is a type of rental agreement that obliges the lessee (the person making periodic lease payments) to make a balloon payment at the end of the lease agreement amounting to the difference between the residual and fair market value of the asset. Open-end leases are also called "finance leases."



Often, open-end leases are used in commercial transactions. For example, when a moving business procures a fleet of vans and trucks, an open-end lease may prove to be a better bargain due to the unlimited mileage offered under the terms of a lease.





Key Takeaways

Open-end leases are used for both commercial and individual purposes—often for purchasing or leasing vehicles.An open-end lease for an apartment or home rental may be based on a month-by-month rental agreement between the landlord and the renter.In terms of flexibility, the open-end lease is typically less rigid than a closed-end lease.A closed-end care lease may make more sense for general consumers who need a vehicle that will make regular trips of predictable length.


   How an Open-End Lease Works  

Since the lessee must purchase the leased asset upon lease expiration, that person bears the risk that the asset depreciates more than was expected by the end of the lease. Of course, at the same time, the lessee stands to realize a gain if the asset depreciates less than expected.



For example, suppose your lease payments for a car are based on the assumption that a $20,000 new car will be worth only $10,000 at the end of your lease agreement. If the car turns out to be worth only $4,000, you must compensate the lessor (the company who leased the car to you) for the lost $6,000 since your lease payment was calculated on the basis of the car having a salvage value of $10,000.



Basically, since you are buying the car, you must bear the loss of that extra depreciation. Conversely, if the car is worth more than $10,000 at the end of the lease, you receive a refund from the lessor.






There are different opinions on whether an open-end lease is more appropriate for an enterprise that intends to own the vehicle at the end of the term.


   Open-End vs. Closed-End Leases  

In the case of vehicles procured through an open-end lease, typically there is no restriction on the mileage that can be accumulated during the terms of the agreement. This allows the operator to use the vehicle as they see fit, with the understanding that they will purchase the vehicle in the condition they have put it in.



A closed-end lease, by some accounts, may make more sense for a general consumer who needs a vehicle that will make somewhat regular trips, usually to work and home, of predictable length, meaning the mileage should be consistent and the wear and tear will be regulated.



An open-end lease can make more sense for an enterprise because the company might be able to select the depreciation rate of the asset at the time of the signing, allowing for more control of how the costs for the agreement play out. Furthermore, an open-end lease can inform the lessee about the financial stability of the company leasing out the asset, by gauging rates they make available to their customers.
What Is an Open-End Management Company?  

An open-end management company is a type of investment company responsible for the management of open-end funds. Open-end management companies manage both open-end mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs).





Key Takeaways

An open-end management company manages open-end funds, such as open-end mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs).Open-end mutual funds are not traded on exchanges; the open-end management company is responsible for distributing and redeeming all of the shares of open-end mutual funds offered in the market.ETFs offered by open-end management companies also do not have a specified number of shares offered, meaning the open-end management company can issue and redeem shares at their discretion.Open-end funds and ETFs do have many similarities; both are pooled funds allowing for management and operational economies of scale.Closed-end funds are different from open-end funds in that they have a specific number of shares available and are priced throughout the day at their market price as opposed to once a day at their NAV like open-end funds.


   How an Open-End Management Company Works  

An open-end management company is a type of management investment company as classified by the Investment Company Act of 1940. Investment companies are classified into three basic categories:



Face-amount certificate company
Unit investment trust
Management (investment) company.



All of these investment companies manage assets in investment products. Generally, investment companies must all follow the rules and regulations enacted by the 1940 Act as well as the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



Open-end management companies are most often associated with the management of open-end mutual funds. However, they also manage ETFs too. Vanguard is one example of an open-end management company.



Open-end funds are open, meaning that they can continually bring on new investors and new investment capital rather than being closed at some point where they no longer bring on new investors or capital. All capital is pooled from the various investors.



Shares are issued as long as investors are willing to buy and are bought and sold at their net asset value (NAV). Open-end funds are an easy way to gain exposure to financial markets in a diversified way with a specific investment objective.


   Types of Open-End Management Companies  
  Mutual Funds  

Open-end mutual funds are not traded on exchanges. Therefore, the open-end management company is responsible for distributing and redeeming all of the shares of open-end mutual funds offered in the market. Open-end mutual funds do not have a specific number of shares offered in the market.



These funds are sold and redeemed at their daily net asset value (NAV) per share. Investment company rules and regulations require transactions for open-end mutual funds to take place at their forward NAV. This means buyers and sellers can expect to transact at the next NAV following their transaction request.



Open-end mutual funds pool the money from investors in order to attain operational and management economies of scale. Open-end funds are managed to a broad range of investment objectives. They can deploy various types of strategies. They also manage assets across a wide range of market sectors and segments.



Open-end funds offer numerous share classes for investors. They are structured to include retail investor shares and institutional investor shares. They also often issue special shares for certain types of investments such as retirement funds.



While the transactions of open-end funds are managed by their respective open-end management company and not on any exchange, investors may choose to deal with intermediaries. Fees and open-end management company fee structures are applied when seeking to transact an open-end fund through an intermediary.



Full-service brokers and distributors will charge fees according to the management company’s sales load fee structure which is outlined in the fund’s prospectus. Investors transacting through a discount brokerage will pay lower fees and may face certain investment minimums.


  Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)  

ETFs are also offered by open-end management companies, and as characteristics of such funds, do not have a specified number of shares offered in the market. Therefore, the open-end management company can issue and redeem shares at its discretion.



ETFs differ from open-end funds in that they trade actively throughout the day on an exchange like stocks. They do not offer a range of share classes with different fee schedules, but rather, investors buy ETFs through brokers or on brokerage platforms.





$23.9 Trillion

Total net assets of U.S.-registered mutual funds worldwide in 2020.



ETFs are passively managed funds. Managers of ETFs select a specific benchmark to replicate and purchase the stocks listed in that benchmark, for example, the S&P 500. This allows investors exposure to a large number of shares in the market without having to purchase the individual shares themselves. And because ETFs are passively managed, they typically have low expense ratios.



Open-end funds and ETFs do have many similarities. Both are pooled funds allowing for management and operational economies of scale. Both open-end funds and ETFs offer products managed to a wide range of investment strategies and objectives.


   How to Invest in Open-End Funds  

There are a variety of ways to invest in open-end funds and the best way to do so is through a broker. A broker will sell shares of a specific fund to investors. If you are purchasing an exchange traded fund, for example, you can sign on to your broker's online portal, choose the ETF you wish to purchase, and buy it like you would a stock.



If an investor is interested in gaining exposure to the S&P 500, for example, they can purchase State Street's SPDR S&P 500 Trust (SPY) or the iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (IVV). Most of the large investment management companies, such as Vanguard, offer over 100 mutual funds with specific investment goals that investors can choose from.


   Open-End vs. Closed-End Funds  

The primary difference between an open-end fund and a closed-end fund is that open-end funds are open to new investors and new investment capital whereas closed-end funds are closed to new investors and new capital.



Managers of closed-end funds believe the fund has reached a size that is optimal and any size larger would impede the strategy of the firm or have negative consequences to the overall market if the fund was making large buy or sell orders.



Closed-end funds offer a fixed number of shares like publicly-traded companies and release these shares into the market via an initial public offering (IPO). Shares are listed on an exchange and are available to purchase on the secondary market via brokers.



Shares are bought and sold throughout the day and are purchased or sold at the price they are trading at during the day, as opposed to the end-of-day NAV.



Open-end funds, on the other hand, are valued at their NAV (unless they are ETFs) and can constantly release new shares if investor appetite exists. Both types of funds, however, are professionally managed, invest in a variety of equities or asset classes, and pool the investment capital of the investors in order to invest on a larger scale.




What Is the Main Difference Between Open-End and Closed-End Funds?
The differences between open-end funds and closed-end funds are that closed-end funds have a limited number of shares available in the market, are offered through an IPO, and are priced at their market value throughout the day. Open-end funds, for the most part, are priced once a day at their NAV and are constantly open to investors with new shares being offered as long as there is appetite.




What Is an Open-End Index Fund?
An open-end index fund is an open-end fund that tracks a specific index. An open-end index fund selects a benchmark to track, such as the S&P 500, and purchases the stocks in that index in order to replicate its returns. An open-end index fund is different from an exchange traded fund (ETF), which also tracks an index, in that it has characteristics reflective of an open-end fund, such as being priced to its NAV once a day and only being able to be purchased and sold once a day.




How Do I Know if a Fund Is Open-Ended?
You can tell if a fund is open-end through the information provided in its prospectus or its website. You can also determine if it is open-ended in how it is priced, which would be its net asset value (NAV).
What Is an Open-End Mortgage?  

An open-end mortgage is a type of mortgage that allows the borrower to increase the amount of the mortgage principal outstanding at a later time. Open-end mortgages permit the borrower to go back to the lender and borrow more money. There is usually a set dollar limit on the additional amount that can be borrowed.





Key Takeaways

An open-end mortgage is a type of mortgage that allows the borrower to increase the amount of the mortgage principal outstanding at a later time.An open-end mortgage allows a borrower to take a portion of the loan value for which they have been approved to cover the costs of their home; by taking only a portion, the borrower can pay a lower interest rate since they are only obligated to make interest payments on the outstanding balance.An open-end mortgage is advantageous for a borrower who qualifies for a higher loan principal amount than may be needed to buy the home.


   How an Open-End Mortgage Works  

An open-end mortgage is similar to a delayed draw term loan. It also has features similar to revolving credit. Open-end mortgages are unique in that they are a loan agreement that is secured against a real estate property with funds going only toward investment in that property.



The process for application is similar to other credit products, and the terms of the loan are determined by a borrower’s credit score and credit profile. In some cases, co-borrowers may have a higher chance of approval for an open-end mortgage if they present a lower default risk.



Open-end mortgages can give a borrower a maximum principal amount for which they can obtain over a specified time. The borrower can take a portion of the loan value for which they have been approved to cover the costs of their home. Taking only a portion allows the borrower to pay lower interest since they are only obligated to make interest payments on the outstanding balance. In an open-end mortgage, the borrower can receive the loan principal at any time specified in the terms of the loan. The amount available to borrow may also be tied to the value of the home.



An open-end mortgage is different from a delayed draw term loan because the borrower usually does not have to meet any specific milestones in order to obtain additional funds. An open-end mortgage differs from revolving credit because the funds are usually available only for a specified time. The terms of revolving credit specify that the funds stay open indefinitely, with the exception being if a borrower defaults.



In an open-end mortgage, the drawdowns from the available credit can also only be used against the secured collateral. Therefore, payouts must go toward the real estate property for which the lender has the title.


   Advantages of an Open-End Mortgage  

An open-end mortgage is advantageous for a borrower who qualifies for a higher loan principal amount than may be needed to buy the home. An open-end mortgage can provide a borrower with a maximum amount of credit available at a favorable loan rate. The borrower has the advantage of drawing on the loan principal to pay for any property costs that arise during the entire life of the loan.


   Example of an Open-End Mortgage  

For example, assume a borrower obtains a $200,000 open-end mortgage to purchase a home. The loan has a term of 30 years with a fixed interest rate of 5.75%. They receive rights to the $200,000 principal amount but they do not have to take the full amount at once. The borrower may choose to take $100,000, which would require making interest payments at the 5.75% rate on the outstanding balance. Five years later, the borrower may take another $50,000. At that time, the additional $50,000 is added to the outstanding principal and they begin paying 5.75% interest on the total outstanding balance. Use a mortgage calculator to help budget for the monthly cost of your payment.
What Is an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC)?  

An open-ended investment company (OEIC) is a type of investment fund domiciled in the United Kingdom that is structured as a company in its own right to invest in stocks and other securities. OEIC shares do not trade on the London Stock Exchange.



The price of the shares is based largely on the underlying assets of the fund. These funds can mix different types of investment strategies such as income and growth, small cap and large cap, and can constantly adjust their investment criteria and fund size.



OEICs are called "open-ended" because they can create new shares to meet investor demand. Also, the fund will cancel the shares of investors who exit the fund. OEICs are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which means services such as the Financial Ombudsman are available to investors if problems arise.





Key Takeaways

An open-ended investment company (OEIC) is a type of investment fund in the United Kingdom, similar to an open-ended mutual fund in the U.S.OEICs offer a professionally managed portfolio of pooled investor funds that invests in different equities, bonds, and other securities.OEICs are priced once a day, based on the net asset value of their underlying portfolio assets.Most OEICs carry sales charges and annual management fees, known as the ongoing charges figure.


   Understanding an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC)  

An open-ended investment company pools investors’ money and spreads it across a wide range of investments, such as equities or fixed-interest securities. This diversification helps reduce the risk of losing an investor’s principal. OEIC funds offer the potential for growth or income. They usually function as a medium to long-term investment, held for five to ten years or longer.



Any U.K. investor, 18 years or older, may invest in a wide range of funds managed by industry experts. As in the United States, there are various levels of risk available for capital growth, income generation, or a combination of both. Shareholders may invest for themselves or their children. When children turn 18 years old, they hold the investment in their own right.


   Charges for OEIC Shares  

As of 2021, investors pay an initial charge of between 0% to 5% when buying new shares. This type of front-end load lowers the amount of money going into the fund to purchase shares. In addition, there is an annual management charge (AMC) of around 1% to 1.5% of the value of an investor’s shares. The AMC covers the fund manager's services. Funds that are not actively managed, such as index trackers, have much lower fees.



Most funds quote a total expense ratio (TER) or an ongoing charges figure (OCF). Each charge includes the AMC and other expenses used for comparing different products. The TER and OCF do not include dealer charges that can add significantly to annual costs if the fund has a high turnover rate.



There may also be an exit charge for selling shares, based on a percentage of the total value of the sale. However, many OEICs do not charge exit fees.


   Investing in OEICs  

OEICs are useful for investors who do not have the time, interest, or expertise to actively manage their investments. Investors may invest a single payment or monthly payments with minimum amounts depending on the fund. Also, access to funds online or over the phone is generally easy. Further, shareholders may pay a fee when moving between funds.





Pros

Offer professional money management
Have diversified portfolios, mitigating risk
Are highly liquid
Feature low investment minimums



Cons

Carry high annual fees, sales charges
Incur taxes
Must maintain cash reserves, restricting returns
Require mid-to-long-term investment horizon






OEIC are not tax-advantaged; so, interest and dividends are taxable, and selling shares may incur a capital gains tax. Of course, the amounts involved must exceed dividend and capital gains tax allowances. Also, shareholders may hold OEICs tax-free in an Individual Savings Account (ISA) or other U.K. pension plan.



However, investment values and resulting income are not guaranteed and may increase or decrease, depending on investment performance and currency exchange rates for funds investing in foreign markets. Therefore, a shareholder may not get back the original amount invested.



U.S. residents may not hold shares in OEICs. U.S. shareholders must have the OEIC sell their shares or transfer their investments to U.K. residents.


   OEICs vs. Unit Trusts  

In the United Kingdom, unit trusts (UTs) and OEICs are the two most common types of investment funds, and they also have much in common.



Like OEICs, unit trusts consist of a manager who buys stocks and bonds for holders of a fund, in an open-ended format. The two mainly differ in the way they are priced. Unit trusts will have two prices:



The bid price—the price per unit received for each unit sold back to the fundThe offer price—the price to purchase each unit of the fund



OEICs have only one price per day, based on the net asset value (NAV) of the underlying assets of the fund. OIECs tend to have lower fees than UTs because they have a simpler structure. Many investment companies have been converting unit trusts into OEICs for this reason.


   Real-World Example of OEICs  

British OEICs are comparable to American mutual funds, and many U.S. investment companies that do business in the U.K. offer them. One such is Fidelity International, an overseas division of Fidelity Investments. In July 2018, the division announced it was instituting variable management fees for five UK-domiciled OEICs, including the Fidelity Special Situations, Fidelity European, Fidelity Asian Dividend, Fidelity Global Special Situations, and Fidelity American funds.



The change effectively reduced the base AMC of the funds by 10%.



Correction-Oct. 13, 2022: This article previously misstated that shares of OEICs trade on the London Stock Exchange.
What Is an Open House?  

In real estate, an open house is a scheduled time when a house or other dwelling is designated to be available for viewing by potential buyers. Usually, the owners or renters vacate the house when the broker holds an open house.



The term open house can also refer to the real estate property itself; in either case, it applies to dwellings that are for sale by the owner. They are often held to advertise a newly developed community.





Key Takeaways

An open house is a scheduled period of time in which a home is available for viewing by potential buyers.Open houses can attract interested buyers and lead to an offer or alert the realtor to issues with the space that might be pointed out.On the other hand, open houses can entail a considerable amount of effort in organizing.Some realtors may serve light refreshments at an open house or even cocktails during an evening open house.An open house is a great, low-pressure way to show the house to potential buyers. 


   How an Open House Works  

In the real estate market, buying and selling a property is an example of a relatively illiquid market with dissimilar products. Each house will be different from the next, even if they are in the same neighborhood or even on the same block. During an open house, the seller or seller's agent allows potential buyers to enter and walk through the property at their leisure or guided by a realtor.



The goal of an open house is to secure interest from buyers. Open houses allow interested buyers to take their time looking at the house and surrounding property, rather than a shorter one-on-one appointment with a broker.



Many open houses occur on weekends—Sundays in particular, and brokers use banners and other fanfare as advertisements. During an open house period, owners keep the houses clean and organized to attract potential buyers. Some owners or agents also serve coffee, cocktails, or hors d'oeuvres at these events.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Open Houses  

For people trying to sell their homes, an open house provides an opportunity to attract interested buyers to the property. A well-executed event can generate excitement about the home and potentially lead to an offer. Many realtors advise their clients to hold an open house the first weekend after the property goes up for sale.



Even if the event does not snag a buyer, an open house can still be beneficial. As visitors walk through the home, they are likely to discuss their perceptions of the home. This feedback can alert the realtor to issues that might be preventing the house from selling. Unattractive paint colors, for example, can be an easy fix that can boost a home's selling potential.


  Open Houses Are Hard Work  

For some sellers, an open house entails more effort than it is worth. During the event, the property owner must leave the property to give the realtor free rein. This means making alternate arrangements for children and pets. Owners also need to remove personal items such as photographs that might prevent prospective buyers from imagining themselves in the home. Due to safety and theft concerns, some sellers are also hesitant to have groups of strangers walking through their homes.


  Driving Traffic With Open Houses  

According to a 2021 report from the National Association of Realtors (NAR), just 4% of all buyers visited open houses as the first step in their home buying process. This includes 6% of seniors ages 75 to 95 and just 2% of younger people (22 to 30 years). Most buyers begin the home buying process by either contacting a real estate agent or browsing online. However, the majority (53%) will attend an open house, mostly between the ages of 31 to 55. These statistics go against the common belief that opening a home to the public for a few hours on the weekend will draw foot traffic that will translate into a sale.



With the advent of the Internet, most properties are listed online before the first open house is scheduled. Home seekers can view photos and information about the property's condition on a website, allowing homeowners to cast a much wider net for potential buyers. For some sellers, this can make open houses seem obsolete.





Pros

Attracts interested buyers
Alerts realtor to issues with the house through visitor feedback
May lead to an immediate offer
Is a great way to show the house to a lot of people at once instead of drawn-out one-by-one showings



Cons

Can entail more effort in organizing than its worth
Online listings can reach more potential buyers in a shorter amount of time
Usually, owners must leave their homes during all open houses
Open houses may be a potential for theft, especially if the event draws a large crowd





   Broker's Open House  

In contrast to a traditional open house, which is open to the public, a broker's open house is strictly for real estate professionals. A broker's open house intends to allow real estate agents to view the property. It also allows the seller's realtor to solicit professional opinions from their peers about the property and its price. In many cases, the broker's open house also encourages buyers' agents to schedule a showing for their clients.



A broker's open house usually is held midweek, when agents are more available than on weekends when they are occupied with showing homes to their clients. A broker’s open house is among the tools that real estate agents use to market a home. In addition to online marketing systems like Multiple Listing Service (MLS), it's a way to introduce a listing to industry professionals in a community.






Sellers should make sure to remove or hide any valuables before an open house event to protect themselves against theft. In addition, it is also a good idea for your broker to require all visitors to sign in with at least their full names, email, and phone number.


   Open House FAQs  
  How Do You Find an Open House?  

You can find listings via online real estate marketplaces, on social media, and by simply calling local realtors and asking them about upcoming open houses in your area.


  Can Anyone Go to an Open House?  

Open houses are a way for potential buyers to see new homes on the market, but anyone can attend an open house.


  Should You Go to an Open House Before Making an Offer?  

You don't have to go to an open house before making an offer, but it is usually a good idea to a property in person before making an offer. However, during the 2020 economic crisis, many realtors ended up selling homes to eager buyers based solely on photographs and information available on online listings.


  What Should You Serve at an Open House?  

You do not have to serve refreshments at an open house, but it might be nice to offer potential buyers coffee, tea, water, and cookies. If it is an evening event or a specialized open house, you could offer mocktails or cocktails with hors d'oeuvres.


  Should You Stage an Open House?  

Nearly half of buyers' agents (47%) agree that some form of staging is a good idea when selling a house, according to the National Association of REALTORS. Staging a house is a skill, and it involves making a home appealing to a wide pool of buyers. Fresh paint, removing clutter, and keeping it extremely clean are easy ways to stage a home. When brokers sell a newly built home, they often use stagers to set up every room.


  How Long Do Open Houses Last?  

The length of an open house event varies depending on the property, the broker, and the seller. It could be as short as one hour or an entire morning or afternoon. Open houses are not typically held all day, but some brokers prefer to have them. It is not atypical for a broker to hold several open house events when selling a home.


   The Bottom Line  

Open houses are one way to bring potential buyers into a home. There are a few types of open houses. Traditional ones are available to the public, and anyone interested in seeing the house can attend. For example, a broker's open house allows real estate professionals to view the property. During a broker's open house, buyers' agents are encouraged to set up showings for clients.



Open houses require work by the seller and their real estate agent and may not be worth the effort in some markets. Interested buyers can view homes first online with photographs and even 360-degree virtual tours of properties before making an in-person appointment. The advent of this technology has impacted how buyers view and buy homes, and while open houses are still helpful to sell a house, they may not always be necessary.
What Is Open Interest?  

Open interest is the total number of outstanding derivative contracts for an asset—such as options or futures—that have not been settled. Open interest keeps track of every open position in a particular contract rather than tracking the total volume traded.



Thus, open interest can provide a more accurate picture of a contract's liquidity and interest, identifying whether money flows into the contract are increasing or decreasing.





Key Takeaways

Open interest is the total number of open derivative contracts, such as options or futures, that have not been settled.Open interest is commonly associated with the futures and options markets.Increasing open interest represents new or additional money coming into the market, while decreasing open interest indicates money flowing out of the market.To comprehend open interest, you should understand that traders can buy and sell to open and close positions.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Open Interest  

Open interest is most often associated with the futures and options markets, where the number of open contracts changes daily. Open interest is the number of options or futures contracts held by traders in active positions. These positions have been opened, but have not been closed out, expired, or exercised.



Open interest decreases when buyers (or holders) and sellers (or writers) of contracts close out more positions than were opened that day. To close out a position, a trader must take an offsetting position or exercise their option.



Open interest increases once again when investors and traders open more new long positions or sellers take on new short positions in an amount greater than the number of contracts that were closed that day.



Here's a simple scenario—assume that the open interest of the ABC call option is 0. The next day a trader buys 10 ABC options contracts as a new position. Open interest for this particular call option is now 10. The day after, five ABC contracts were closed, and 10 were opened. This means that open interest increased by five to 15.






A common misconception about open interest lies in its ability to make predictions. New traders might be led to believe that it can forecast price action, but it cannot. High or low open interest only reflects trader interest and sentiments.


   Open Interest vs. Trading Volume  

Open interest is sometimes confused with trading volume, but the two terms refer to different measures. For example, imagine one trader holds 10 option contracts and sells them to a new trader entering the market. The transfer of these contracts does not create any change in the open interest because positions were transferred, not closed or opened.



Trading volume, on the other hand, increased by 10 because of the transferral.


   The Importance of Open Interest  

Open interest is a measure of market activity. Little or no open interest means there are no opening positions, or that nearly all the positions have been closed. High open interest means there are many contracts still open, which means market participants will be watching that market closely.



Open interest measures money flow into or out of a futures or options market. Increasing open interest represents new or additional money coming into the market, while decreasing open interest indicates money flowing out of the market.



Open interest is significant to options traders as it provides key information regarding the liquidity of an option.






High open interest creates opportunities to buy and sell. This liquidity helps traders move into and out of positions quickly. If liquidity is low (low open interest), traders are less able to get in and out of the market.


   Real-World Example of Open Interest  

Below is a table of trading activity in the options market for traders A, B, C, D, and E. Open interest is calculated following the trading activity for each day. The key to understanding how this works is whether the trader bought or sold to open or close positions.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Jan. 1: Trader A buys one option to open a position from Trader B, increasing open interest by one.Jan. 2: Trader C buys five options to open a position from D, which increases open interest to six.Jan. 3: Trader A sells one option to D to close a position, decreasing open interest by one.Jan. 4: Trader E bought five options from C to open positions, who sold the five purchased from D to close positions.




Is Higher Open Interest Better?
High open interest usually indicates higher liquidity for a contract. This generally means there will be less difference between how much a trader wants for an option and how much another will pay. This can make it easier to buy and sell. If open interest is increasing and becoming higher, this signals that the market trends around that option are likely to continue.




Is Open Interest Bearish or Bullish?
Rising open interest usually means that there is new buying happening, which is a bullish trend. However, if open interest grows too high, it can sometimes be a bearish signal that indicates a coming change in market trends.




What Happens When Open Interest Increases?
When open interest increases, it usually means new money is coming into the market for that option. As long as this is happening, the current trend will continue. When open interest decreases, it is usually a sign that the market is liquidating and more investors are leaving. This often means that the current price trend is ending.


   The Bottom Line  

Open interest is the total number of open derivative contracts that haven't been settled. They haven't been exercised, closed out, or expired. This measurement is associated with the options and futures market rather than the stock market. Open interest is equal to the total number of open contracts, not the sum of all transactions between buyers and sellers.



When open interest goes up, it represents new money coming into the market. When open interest decreases, it means money is flowing out of the market. Open interest is not generally viewed as an indicator of trends or price action.
What Is an Audit?  

The term audit usually refers to a financial statement audit. A financial audit is an objective examination and evaluation of the financial statements of an organization to make sure that the financial records are a fair and accurate representation of the transactions they claim to represent. The audit can be conducted internally by employees of the organization or externally by an outside Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firm.





Key Takeaways

There are three main types of audits: external audits, internal audits, and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audits.External audits are commonly performed by Certified Public Accounting (CPA) firms and result in an auditor's opinion which is included in the audit report.An unqualified, or clean, audit opinion means that the auditor has not identified any material misstatement as a result of his or her review of the financial statements.External audits can include a review of both financial statements and a company's internal controls.Internal audits serve as a managerial tool to make improvements to processes and internal controls.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Audits  

Almost all companies receive a yearly audit of their financial statements, such as the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement. Lenders often require the results of an external audit annually as part of their debt covenants. For some companies, audits are a legal requirement due to the compelling incentives to intentionally misstate financial information in an attempt to commit fraud. As a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) of 2002, publicly traded companies must also receive an evaluation of the effectiveness of their internal controls.



Standards for external audits performed in the United States, called the generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS), are set out by Auditing Standards Board (ASB) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Additional rules for the audits of publicly traded companies are made by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), which was established as a result of SOX in 2002. A separate set of international standards, called the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), were set up by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB).


   Types of Audits  
  External Audits  

Unqualified audits performed by outside parties can be extremely helpful in removing any bias in reviewing the state of a company's financials. Financial audits seek to identify if there are any material misstatements in the financial statements. An unqualified, or clean, auditor's opinion provides financial statement users with confidence that the financials are both accurate and complete. External audits, therefore, allow stakeholders to make better, more informed decisions related to the company being audited.



External auditors follow a set of standards different from that of the company or organization hiring them to do the work. The biggest difference between an internal and external audit is the concept of independence of the external auditor. When audits are performed by third parties, the resulting auditor's opinion expressed on items being audited (a company's financials, internal controls, or a system) can be candid and honest without it affecting daily work relationships within the company.


  Internal Audits  

Internal auditors are employed by the company or organization for whom they are performing an audit, and the resulting audit report is given directly to management and the board of directors. Consultant auditors, while not employed internally, use the standards of the company they are auditing as opposed to a separate set of standards. These types of auditors are used when an organization doesn’t have the in-house resources to audit certain parts of its own operations.



The results of the internal audit are used to make managerial changes and improvements to internal controls. The purpose of an internal audit is to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and to help maintain accurate and timely financial reporting and data collection. Ongoing audits also provide benefits to management by identifying flaws in internal control or financial reporting prior to its review by external auditors.


  Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Audits  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) also routinely performs audits to verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s return and specific transactions. When the IRS audits a person or company, it usually carries a negative connotation and is seen as evidence of some type of wrongdoing by the taxpayer. However, being selected for an audit is not necessarily indicative of any wrongdoing.



IRS audit selection is usually made by random statistical formulas that analyze a taxpayer's return and compare it to similar returns. A taxpayer may also be selected for an audit if they have any dealings with another person or company who was found to have tax errors on their audit.



There are three possible IRS audit outcomes available: no change to the tax return, a change that is accepted by the taxpayer, or a change that the taxpayer disagrees with. If the change is accepted, the taxpayer may owe additional taxes or penalties. If the taxpayer disagrees, there is a process to follow that may include mediation or an appeal.
What Is an Open Listing?  

An open listing in real estate is a property for sale which may be shown by multiple real estate agents. The agents compete to find a buyer for the property.



The open listing is the opposite of an exclusive listing, in which a real estate agent is engaged by the property owner with the understanding that the agent has the sole right to represent the owner and sell the property.



When the listing is open, the agent who makes the sale is paid the commission, not the listing agent. If the homeowner finds a buyer without the assistance of an agent, no one is paid a commission. If the agent has an exclusive right to sell, the agent earns a commission regardless of who sells the property.





Key Takeaways

Home sellers may have the option of offering a real estate agent an exclusive listing or an open listing.An open listing allows other local real estate agents to compete to find a buyer for the property.An exclusive listing gives the sole agent an incentive to work hard for the sale.An open listing offers the possibility of more showings and wider interest in the home.


   Understanding an Open Listing  

An open listing is also referred to as a listing agreement on a nonexclusive basis. Agents who directly participate in selling this property, including the listing agent and the selling agent, are entitled to a share of the commission if it ultimately leads to a sale.



Sellers who are hoping for a quick sale may opt for an open listing. If they don't attract a buyer during the term of the agreement, they may then change to an open listing to get more prospective buyers through the door.



The seller may also hope to avoid paying a commission altogether. That is, if a buyer and a seller make a private deal independently, there may be no sales commission. If it is an exclusive "right to sell" agreement, the agent is still owed the commission. If it is an "exclusive agency listing" agents are paid only if they sell the property.


   Special Considerations  

Real estate agents can be reluctant to take on an open listing, or reluctant to put much work into it because the commission is likely to be split.



The open listing arrangement stands to benefit the seller by offering them access to more agents to sell their property.



Real estate firms may have rules that govern whether their agents may participate in open-listing arrangements. Some firms allow open listings to be accepted but not advertised, although the agents are allowed to engage clients they already have as potential buyers.



The limited potential for commissions incentives agents to focus on exclusive contracts.




What Does 'Exclusive' Mean on a Real Estate Listing?
The word exclusive indicates that the listing for the property is being handled by a single agent. No other agent can show the property or negotiate a sale.If it is an open listing, any agent can show the property and negotiate a deal.




Is an Exclusive Listing or an Open Listing Better for the Seller?
The seller who offers a real estate agent an exclusive will be getting a representative who is determined to make a sale, and will spend the time and energy necessary to do it.An open listing may get the property higher visibility. Other agents who see the listing can canvass their own networks of buyers for a possible match.That said, real estate agents balk at accepting open listings. An exclusive might be the way to go at least initially. If the house fails to sell, consider the open option.




Does an Open Listing Have an Expiration Date?
Most real estate listings have an expiration date, It might be 90 days or 180 days. The expiration date is not very relevant in an open listing, since the contract does not commit the seller to paying a commission to the real estate agent.
What is an Open Loop Card?  

An open loop card is a general-purpose charge card that can be used anywhere that brand of card is accepted. It usually bears the logo of the card brand or network (which processes the actual transactions), such as Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover. In the case of cards offered through financial institutions, like Visas or MasterCards, it often shows the name of the issuing bank or credit union as well.



Open loop cards can be credit cards, debit cards, gift cards, or prepaid cards. The partnerships involved with the issuance of open loop cards can be structured in various ways.



The opposite of an open loop card is a closed loop card, which can only be used to make purchases from a single company or retailer, like a department store.


   The Basics of an Open Loop Card  

Any charge card that is widely accepted at a variety of merchants and locations is considered an open loop card. Open loop cards can take a variety of forms.





key takeaways


An open loop card is a general-purpose charge card that can be used anywhere that brand of card is accepted.
The opposite of an open loop card is a card that can only be used at a specific retailer, known as a closed loop card.
Open loop cards can be credit cards, debit cards, gift cards, or prepaid cards.



  Credit Cards  

Open loop cards are what most people think of when they think of credit cards: a piece of plastic, issued by their bank, credit union or financial services company, that they can use to purchase goods or services at a variety of places, both in person and on-line. Every month, the cardholder receives a statement with his charges for that period, which he can pay off in full or in part.



This sort of card is issued to customers by a financial institution in partnership with that institution's processing network (Visa or MasterCard). American Express and Discover act as both their own issuing bank and network processor.


  Debit Cards  

The debit card tied to your checking account, which deducts funds from it immediately when you make a purchase, is also an open loop card. Like credit cards, debit cards work in partnership with a network processor and include its branded logo. Debit cards can be used anywhere that their processing network is accepted.


  Gift Cards and Prepaid Cards  

Prepaid cards loaded with funds for future use can be open loop cards too. General prepaid cards are reloadable and can be consistently used for payments and recurring billing. Gift cards, usually defined as cards that can usually only be used until the loaded funds have been depleted, are open loop if they are not specific to a certain store.



Some prepaid cards may also be used for public assistance benefits. For example, certain prepaid assistance cards might allow qualifying individuals to purchase food at any grocery store that accepts Visa. Flexible spending account cards are also a type of open loop prepaid card, which can be used to make qualifying health care purchases from any merchant that accepts the branded processor.



There are also open loop payment cards that can be used as payroll cards to pay workers who don’t have bank accounts, can’t receive direct deposits, and would have to pay a fee to cash a check. Employers partner with payroll card issuers to provide this card as a benefit for their employees. Some of these cards come with numerous fees, but workers can use them anywhere that the network brand is accepted.





2%

Annual growth rate of open loop pre-paid cards through 2023 (source: Mercator Advisory Group forecast).


   Co-Branded Cards  

Although they may have their own proprietary cards, many retailers are also team up with a bank and a credit card network processor to offer open loop credit cards, like an Amazon Visa or a SaksFirst MasterCard. Known as co-branded cards, because they bear both the logos of the retailer and the card company, these cards offer the best of both worlds, so to speak: They can be used anywhere, but when used in the store, let cardholders accrue rewards points and get perks and privileges, like free delivery or special sale days. Unlike proprietary store cards, however, these co-branded cards generally have annual fees.
What Is an Open Market?  

An open market is an economic system with little to no barriers to free-market activity. An open market is characterized by the absence of tariffs, taxes, licensing requirements, subsidies, unionization, and any other regulations or practices that interfere with free-market activity. Open markets may have competitive barriers to entry, but never any regulatory barriers to entry.





Key Takeaways

An open market is an economic system with little to no barriers to free-market activity.Open markets may have competitive barriers to entry, but never any regulatory barriers to entry.The United States, Canada, Western Europe, and Australia are countries with relatively open markets.


   How an Open Market Works  

In an open market, the pricing of goods or services is driven predominantly by the principles of supply and demand, with limited interference or outside influence from large conglomerates or governmental agencies.



Open markets go hand in hand with free trade policies, which are designed to eliminate discrimination against imports and exports. Buyers and sellers from different economies may voluntarily trade without a government applying tariffs, quotas, subsidies, or prohibitions on goods and services, which are considerable barriers to entry in international trade.


   Open Markets vs. Closed Markets  

An open market is considered highly accessible with few, if any, boundaries preventing a person or entity from participating. The U.S. stock markets are considered open markets because any investor can participate, and all participants are offered the same prices; prices only vary based on shifts in supply and demand.



An open market may have competitive barriers to entry. Major market players might have an established and strong presence, which makes it more difficult for smaller or newer companies to penetrate the market. However, there are no regulatory barriers to entry.



An open market is the opposite of a closed market—that is, a market with a prohibitive number of regulations constraining free market activity. Closed markets may restrict who can participate or allow pricing to be determined by any method outside of basic supply and demand. Most markets are neither truly open nor indeed closed but fall somewhere between the two extremes.



The U.S., Canada, Western Europe, and Australia are relatively open markets while Brazil, Cuba, and North Korea are relatively closed markets.



A closed market, which is also called a protectionist market, attempts to protect its domestic producers from international competition. In many Middle Eastern countries, foreign firms can only compete locally if their business has a "sponsor," which is a native entity or citizen who owns a certain percentage of the business. The nations that adhere to this rule are not considered open relative to other countries.


   Example of an Open Market  

In the United Kingdom, several foreign companies compete in the generation and supply of electricity; thus, the United Kingdom has an open market in the distribution and supply of electricity. The European Union (EU) believes that free trade can only exist when businesses can fully participate. Therefore, the EU ensures that its members have access to all markets.
What Are Open Market Operations (OMOs)?  

Open market operation (OMO) is a term that refers to the purchase and sale of securities in the open market by the Federal Reserve (Fed). The Fed conducts open market operations to regulate the supply of money that is on reserve in U.S. banks. The Fed purchases Treasury securities to increase the money supply and sells them to reduce it.



By using OMOs, the Fed can adjust the federal funds rate, which in turn influences other short-term rates, long-term rates, and foreign exchange rates. This can change the amount of money and credit available in the economy and affect certain economic factors, such as unemployment, output, and the costs of goods and services.





Key Takeaways

Open market operations are one of three tools used by the Fed to affect the availability of money and credit.The term refers to a central bank buying or selling securities in the open market to influence the money supply.The Fed uses open market operations to manipulate interest rates, starting with the federal funds rate used in interbank loans.Buying securities adds money to the system, lowers rates, makes loans easier to obtain, and increases economic activity.Selling securities removes money from the system, raises rates, makes loans more expensive, and decreases economic activity.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Open Market Operations (OMOs)  

To understand open market operations, you first have to understand how the Fed, the central bank of the U.S., implements the nation's monetary policy.



In an effort to keep the U.S. economy on an even keel and to forestall the ill effects of uncontrolled price inflation or deflation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve sets what's called a target federal funds rate.



The federal funds rate is the interest rate that depository institutions charge each other for overnight loans. This constant flow of money allows banks to earn a return on excess cash in their Fed balances while maintaining the reserves required to meet the demands of customers.



As a benchmark, the federal funds rate influences a variety of other rates, from savings deposit rates to home mortgage rates and credit card interest rates.



Open market operations is one of the tools that the Fed uses to keep the federal funds rate at its established target.



The U.S. central bank can lower the interest rate by purchasing securities (and injecting money into the money supply). Similarly, it can sell securities from its balance sheet, take money out of circulation, and put upward pressure on interest rates.



The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve sets a target federal funds rate and then the  Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) implements the open market operations to achieve that rate.


   Types of Open Market Operations  

There are two types of OMOs: permanent open market operations and temporary open market operations.


  Permanent Open Market Operations  

Permanent open market operations refer to the Fed's outright purchase or sale of securities for or from its portfolio. Permanent OMOs are used to achieve traditional goals. For example, the Fed will adjust its holdings to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and to improve financial conditions for consumers and businesses. Permanent OMOs are also used to reinvest principal received on currently held securities.


  Temporary Open Market Operations  

Temporary open market operations are used to add or drain reserves available to the banking system on a short-term basis. They address reserve needs that are deemed to be transitory. Unlike Permanent OMOs, which involve outright purchases or sales, Temporary OMOs are temporary transactions. They're either repurchase agreements (repos) or reverse repurchase agreements (reverse repos).



A repo is a transaction where the Fed's trading desk buys securities and agrees to sell them back at a future date. A reverse repo involves the Fed selling securities with the agreement that it will buy them back in the future. Overnight reverse repos are currently used by the Fed to maintain the federal funds rate in its FOMC-established target range.






U.S. Treasury securities, or Treasuries, are government bills, notes, and bonds that are purchased by many individual consumers. They're also purchased and held in large quantities by various types of financial institutions. They are backed by the full faith and credit of the government and are considered a safe investment. Treasuries are first issued by the government and then traded in the secondary market.


   Expansionary and Contractionary Monetary Policy  

The Fed's monetary policy can be expansionary or contractionary.



If the Fed's goal is to expand the money supply and boost demand, the policy is expansionary. The Fed will buy Treasuries to pour cash into the banks. That encourages banks to lend the excess money that it doesn't have to keep in reserve out to consumers and businesses.



As the banks compete for customers, interest rates drift downwards. Consumers are able to borrow more to buy more. Businesses are eager to borrow more to expand.



If the Fed's goal is to contract the money supply and decrease demand, the policy is contractionary. The Fed will sell Treasuries to pull money out of the system. Less money in the economy means interest rates drift upwards and borrowing decreases. Consumers pull back on their spending. Businesses trim their plans for growth. Economic activity slows down.


   Benefits of Open Market Operations  

Open market operations allow the Federal Reserve (or the central banks in other countries) to prevent price inflation or deflation without directly interfering in the market economy. Instead of using regulations to control lending, the Fed can simply raise or lower the cost of borrowing money.



This allows the Federal Reserve to moderate the business cycle and reduce economic shocks. During recessions, the central bank lowers the cost of borrowing money, encouraging business activity and growth. In times of froth, the Fed increases the cost of borrowing money in order to rein in speculation and deflate potential bubbles.



Open market operations can also be used to affect job growth. By lowering interest rates, the Fed can make it easier to start businesses and hire workers, resulting in increased employment.


   Example of Open Market Operations  

In 2019, the Federal Reserve used Temporary OMOs (term and overnight repos) to support a healthy supply of bank reserves during what it referred to as "periods of sharp increases in non-reserve liabilities," and to "mitigate the risk of money market pressures that could adversely affect policy implementation."



It also used repos to counteract the stress caused by COVID in 2020 and to ensure that banks could maintain plentiful amounts of reserves. Repos also helped accommodate the "smooth functioning of short-term U.S. dollar funding markets."


   Open Market Operations vs. Quantitative Easing  

As discussed above, open market operations is one of the Fed's policy tools frequently used to expand the money supply and support economic activity or contact the money supply and slow that activity.



Quantitative easing (QE) is an alternate, non-traditional tool that the Fed also uses for monetary policy purposes. Essentially, it involves the buying of securities on a very large scale to spur or steady the economy.



The Fed normally employs quantitative easing after other monetary policy tools have been used but something more is needed to boost slow lending and economic activity. For instance, QE may be used when interest rates are already low but economic output is still less than what the Fed believes is healthy.




Why Does the Federal Reserve Conduct Open Market Operations?
Open market operations are used by the Federal Reserve to move the federal funds rate and influence other interest rates. It does this to stimulate or slow down the economy. The Fed can increase the money supply and lower the fed funds rate by purchasing, usually, Treasury securities. Similarly, it can raise the fed funds rate by selling securities from its balance sheet. This takes money out of circulation and pressures interest rates to rise.




What Are Permanent Open Market Operations?
The term "permanent open market operations" refers to outright purchases or sales of securities by a central bank (that won't be reversed in the short-term) to adjust the money supply. Permanent OMOs are the opposite of temporary open market operations, which involve repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that are designed to temporarily add reserves to the banking system or drain reserves from it.




What Is the Fed Funds Rate?
The federal funds rate is the rate at which depository institutions lend available balances held by the Fed to each other overnight.




How Does the Federal Funds Rate Affect Banks?
Financial institutions typically base interest rates for consumer and business loans on the federal funds rate. For example, as the Fed conducts OMOs that raise or lower the fed funds rate, banks and credit card companies will change their rates accordingly.


   The Bottom Line  

In open market operations, the Federal Reserve buys or sells securities on the open market to raise or lower interest rates. They are one of the tools that the Fed has at its disposal to boost or slow down the country's economic activity. By engaging in open market operations, the Fed injects or drains funds from the nation's money supply.



Open market operations can be permanent or temporary. The permanent type of OMO involves the outright purchase (or sale) of securities. Temporary OMOs involve buying or selling securities with the agreement to reverse the transaction in the near future.
What is Open-Market Rate  

The open-market rate is the rate of interest paid on any debt security that trades in the open market. Interest rates for such debt instruments as commercial paper and banker's acceptances would fall under the category of open-market rates. Debt securities include government bonds, corporate bonds, certificate of deposit (CD), municipal bonds and preferred stock.


   Breaking Down Open-Market Rate  

Open-market rates are sensitive and can frequently fluctuate. These rates respond directly to changes in supply and demand pressures within the open marketplace. Distinguishing between open-market rate and open-market operations is essential. The latter is the structure in which the Federal Reserve can affect and control the supply of reserve balances available in the banking system. This control is one of the primary tactics used by the Federal Reserve to implement monetary policy.﻿﻿ 



Open-market operations typically involve the buying and selling of government securities by one central bank in the open market. These transactions allow for the expansion or reduction of the amount of money in the banking system at a given time. The purchase of securities creates an infusion of cash into the banking system, which promotes growth. By contrast, when securities sell, this will have the opposite effect and will shrink the economy.


   Other Rates that Effect the Open Market  

Open-market rate differs from the discount rate and various other official rates that are set by the Federal Reserve. The discount rate is the interest rate applied to commercial banks and other depository financial institutions for loans received from the Federal Reserve's discount window.



The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), a committee within the Federal Reserve system, establishes a target for the federal funds rate, which is the interest that banks charge each other to makes overnight loans from their Federal Reserve funds.﻿﻿ The FOMC then uses activity within the open market for government securities to try and achieve that rate. This rate is significant because the federal funds rate, in turn, influences other significant categories of interest rates, including the open-market rate.


   The Secondary Market and Open-Market Rates  

The open-market rates apply to any debt instrument that trades in the secondary market, where investors buy and sell securities from each other, as opposed to buying them directly from the issuing company. This secondary market is sometimes also referred to as the "aftermarket". It involves investors making deals among themselves, without having to deal with the entity that initially issued the securities. This type of trading activity is what most people probably envision when they think about the stock market. The secondary market is a category that would include the well-known national exchanges such as the NASDAQ and the New York Stock Exchange. Bank commercial-loan rates do not fall into this category, as Fed policy primarily determines them.
What Is an Open-Market Transaction?  

An open-market transaction is an order placed by an insider, after all of the appropriate documentation has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to buy or sell restricted securities openly on an exchange.



An open-market transaction is a legal way for an individual with insider information of their company to trade securities without violating insider trading laws.





Key Takeaways

An open-market transaction refers to the buying or selling of shares in a company by insiders of that company.When enacting an open-market transaction, an insider has to fill out the appropriate paperwork with the SEC to avoid violating any insider trading laws.When open-market transactions occur, outside investors pay attention as the purchase or sale of securities by insiders can indicate the outlook of the company.More interest is placed on the buying of shares by insiders than the selling of shares.


   Understanding an Open-Market Transaction  

The SEC defines an insider as "an officer or director of a public company or an individual or entity owning more than 10% of a company's stock."﻿﻿﻿



When insiders are buying or selling their own company's stock, investors pay attention as it provides insight into what is occurring within the confines of the company that outsiders are not privy to.



Are insiders selling their shares because earnings were drastically below estimates and they expect the share price to fall? Are insiders buying shares because they created a successful new product that will send the share price skyrocketing?



The trading actions of insiders is an indicator of how the stock will perform in the future. But before they can buy or sell their shares, known as open-market transactions, they must file the correct paperwork and follow all procedures.


   The Process of an Open-Market Transaction  

An open-market transaction is simply an order placed by an insider to buy or sell shares according to the rules and regulations set out by the SEC. The importance of an open market order is that the insider is voluntarily buying or selling shares at or close to the market price. There is no special pricing involved in open-market transactions.



Insiders must report open-market transactions with the SEC and include relevant details about the sale or purchase of the shares. Because the reason for the transaction is given, the filings of open-market transactions might be used by other investors to gain some perspective on what insiders may believe about the company.



For example, if an insider sells a considerable portion of their shares through an open-market transaction, the reasons listed with the filing could cause other investors to change their portfolios in response. If the reason was simply to take advantage of stock options provided to a high-level officer, outsider investors will most likely not react.



In fact, more importance is given to the purchase of shares rather than to the sale of shares as a sale could be done for many reasons.



SEC Form 4 needs to be filed by an insider before buying or selling shares. Form 4 lists information such as "the name of the insider, their relationship to the company, how many shares were traded, and at what price."﻿﻿﻿


   Why Open-Market Transactions Are Made by Insiders  

There are many reasons that insiders would buy more shares or sell their current shares. As stated above, buying shares is more insightful as it indicates a belief in the success of a company.



The selling of shares can be done for many reasons, as simple as that the shareholder needs cash and the insider wants to take advantage of profits their investment has accrued.



Conversely, the insider may have weighed long-term considerations about the company or industry that prompted the sale of those shares. The same could be said about the purchase of more shares in the company.



When certain open market transactions occur, companies might issue press statements about the open-market transactions that involve prominent insiders buying shares. For example, if a chair buys one million shares in their own company, an accompanying statement could declare this is an affirmation of faith in the management.



The purchase price of those shares will also be listed. There might also be a reference to how many shares in the company the insider will own after the transaction is complete.


   Open Market Operations  

It is important to note that open-market transactions differ from central banking programs known as open market operations. Under such programs, the Federal Reserve purchases or sells government securities, like bonds, in the open market alongside investors.



Open market operations are used as a form of monetary policy to control the money supply by impacting interest rates and liquidity in the economy. This action is typically used during or after a financial crisis.
What Are Open Mouth Operations?  

Open mouth operations are speculative statements made by the Federal Reserve System (FRS) to influence interest rates and rising prices within an economy—called inflation. Open mouth operations are the announcements by the Fed, also known as the central bank when it informs exchanges where the preferred interest rates should be and not the action of the sale or purchase of U.S. Treasury securities.



The potential use of open market operations by the central bank is to reach target interest rates. Their announcement typically causes the market to react. Marketplace reactions tend to adjust interest rates without the need for the central bank to take action.





Key Takeaways

Open mouth operations broadcast where the Fed, or central bank, believes interest rates and inflation should be in the short-and medium-term.Open mouth operations can cause the markets to react, which can lead to an adjustment in interest rates without the need for central bank action.If the marketplace response does not move interest rates and inflation, the Fed may take steps, including changing the fed funds rate and open market operations (OMO).


   Understanding Open Mouth Operations  

Open mouth operations broadcast where the Fed, or central bank, believes interest rates and inflation should be in the short-and medium-term. When an action is taken on a Fed statement, it is known as open market operations (OMO). Open market operations (OMO) refer to the buying and selling of government securities in the open market to expand or contract the amount of money in the banking system.


   Open Market Operations as a Result of Open Mouth Operations  

There are several forms of open market operations (OMO), the most common of which is the sale of government or Treasury department securities. If marketplace response does not move interest rates and inflation as intended by the Fed, they may take steps themselves to enact the changes.



Buying and selling government bonds allows the Fed to control the supply of reserve balances held by banks, which helps the Fed increase or decrease short-term interest rates as needed. Purchases of Treasury securities inject money into the economy and stimulate growth while selling those same securities can cause the economy to contract.



Regarded as a flexible tool, the Federal Reserve controls monetary policy in the U.S. as it facilitates the OMO process to adjust and manipulate the federal funds rate. The federal funds rate is the standard paid when banks borrow funds from one another. The Fed funds rate is one of the most important interest rates in the U.S. economy. It affects monetary and financial conditions, critical aspects of the broad economy including employment, and short-term interest rates for everything from homes to credit cards. 






During its meeting on March 15-16, 2022, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) announced a hike in the fed funds rate to combat rising inflation. The target rate range was increased by .25% (or 25 basis points) for the first time since 2018. The target range went from 0%-to-.25% to .25%-to-.50%.



   Structure of the Federal Reserve System  

The Federal Reserve System, or the central bank of the United States, regulates U.S. monetary and financial policy. It is composed of a central governmental agency in Washington, D.C., the Board of Governors and 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks. Reserve Banks are located in major cities throughout the United States. 



The Federal Reserve's monetary policy regulates banking institutions, monitors and protects the credit rights of consumers, maintains the stability of the financial system, and provides financial services to the U.S. government.



Monetary policy decisions fall to the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). The FOMC enacts its policy by setting the target federal funds rate. Communication of this rate is through open mouth operations. If necessary, the FOMC will then implement open market operations, discount rate, or reserve requirement strategies to move the current federal funds rate to target levels. The federal funds rate affects most other interest rates in the United States, including the prime, home loan, and car loan rates.
An open offer is a secondary market offering, similar to a rights issue. In an open offer, a shareholder is allowed to purchase stock at a price that is lower than the current market price. The purpose of such an offer is to raise cash for the company efficiently.


   Understanding Open Offer  

An open offer differs from a rights issue (offering) in that investors are unable to sell the rights that come with their purchases to other parties. In a traditional rights issue, the trading of transferable rights, connected with shares, occurs on the exchange that currently lists the issuer's common stock (e.g., NYSE or Nasdaq). These can also be listed over the counter (OTC). Some investors see a secondary market offering as a harbinger of bad news as it causes stock dilution. Also, the open offer could signal that the company stock is currently overvalued.



In both a rights issue and open offer, a company allows existing shareholders to purchase additional shares directly from the company in proportion to what they currently own. This is to prevent dilution to existing shareholders. Given the lack of dilution, in contrast with traditional equity issues and secondary offerings, such an issue does not require shareholder approval. This is if the issue is less than 20% of the total shares outstanding.


   Similarities Between a Rights Issue and an Open Offer  

Both a rights issue and open offer opportunity generally last for a fixed time period, often 16-30 days. This begins on the day the issuer’s registration statement for the rights offering becomes effective. No federal securities laws mandate a specific time period for a rights issue, however. With both rights issues and open offers, if an investor lets the time period for the opportunity expire, she will not receive any cash.



While rights issues are often also priced at a subscription below the current market price – as with an open offer – these rights are transferable to external investors. Other types of traditional rights issues include a direct rights issue and insured rights offering (also called a standby rights offering). To prepare for any rights offering an issuer must provide official documentation to shareholders, along with marketing materials. The issuer must obtain the exercise certificates and payment from shareholders and file the required Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and exchange documentation. (These are key steps but not a comprehensive set as all issues differ.)
What is an Open Order?  

An open order is an un-filled, or working order that is to be executed when an, as yet, unmet requirement has been met before it is cancelled by the customer or expires. The customer has the flexibility to place an order to buy or sell a security that remains in effect until their specified condition has been satisfied.



Because they are often conditional, many open orders are subject to delayed executions since they are not market orders. Sometimes, a lack of market liquidity for a particular security could also cause an order to remain open.





Key Takeaways

Open orders are those unfilled and working orders still in the market waiting to be executed.Orders may remain open because certain conditions such as limit price have not yet been met.Market orders, on the other hand, do not have such restrictions and are typically filled fairly instantaneously.Open orders may be cancelled before they are filled in whole or in part.


   Understanding Open Orders  

Open orders, sometimes called 'backlog orders' can arise from many different order types. Market orders, which cannot have restrictions, are typically filled instantaneously or cancelled. There are rare instances when market orders remain open till the end of the day at which time the brokerage will cancel them.



Open orders are usually limit orders to buy or sell, buy stop orders or sell stop orders. These orders basically offer investors a bit of latitude, especially in price, in entering the trade of their choosing. The investor is willing to wait for the price that they set before the order is executed. The investor can also choose the time frame that the order will remain active for the purpose of getting filled. If the order does not get filled during that specified duration than it will be deactivated and said to have expired.



Open orders often have a good 'til cancelled (GTC) option that can be chosen by the investor. Investor can also, at any time after placing the order, cancel it. Most brokerages have stipulations that state that if open orders remain active (not filled) after several months, they will automatically expire. They are often used to measure market depth.


   Open Order Risks  

Open orders can be risky if they remain open for a long period of time. After you place an order, you are on the hook for the price that was quoted when the order was placed. The biggest risk is that the price could quickly move in an adverse direction in response to a new event. If you have an order that's open for several days, you may be caught off guard by these price movements if you're not constantly watching the market. This is particularly dangerous for traders using leverage, which is why day traders close all of their trades at the end of each day.



In addition to orders that remain open, traders must also be cognizant of open orders to close. You might have a take-profit order in place one day, but if the stock becomes materially more bullish, you must remember to update the trade to avoid prematurely selling shares. The same goes for stop-loss orders that may need to be adjusted to account for certain market conditions.



The best way to avoid these risks is to review all open orders each day, or ensure that you close all orders at the end of each day by using day orders rather than good-til-canceled (GTC) orders. This way, you are always aware of your open positions and can make any adjustments or re-initiate new orders at the beginning of the next trading day.
What Is Open Outcry?  

Open outcry was a popular method for communicating trade orders in trading pits before 2010. The verbal and hand signal communication used by traders at stock, option, and futures exchanges are now rarely employed, replaced by faster and more accurate electronic order systems. Signals and shouts made in a particular manner and sequence would convey trading information, intentions, and acceptance in the trading pits.





Key Takeaways

Open outcry was the primary method for how pit traders communicated trade orders.The fierce competition in trading pits made things highly efficient, but electronic trading has proved to be even more efficient.Successful traders in open outcry relied on temporary information asymmetry in order to be successful, but more information parity helps retail and institutional traders alike to profit from greater trading efficiency and increased participation.


   Understanding Open Outcry  

Trading pits are physical sections of trading floors, often with risers or uneven floor levels to accommodate eye contact with as many traders as possible, where trade orders are communicated face to face. Traders make a contract when one trader declares they want to sell at a certain price, and another trader responds that they will buy at that same price.



Open outcry is similar to an auction where all participants have a chance to compete for orders. It leads to transparency, efficient markets, and fair price discovery. Because trading can occur between any two participants at any given time, it differs from over-the-counter trading where trading is negotiated between two parties privately. Most of the trading in pits is conducted between one or more members in the crowd of the pit, and a smaller number of traders that stand at the edge of the pits as market makers. Most of the order flow will come through these market makers to the traders in the pits.



The length of the trading day differs between open outcry exchanges and those that use electronic trading such as the Globex. Regular market hours typically run from 8:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. Open outcry sessions for some commodities such as corn futures and options (CBOT) run from 9:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. 



First introduced in 1992, the Globex is the first global electronic trading system for futures and options. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) developed the Globex automated system. Electronic trading on Globex is available nearly 24 hours a day, from Sunday evening through late Friday afternoon. There is a short break each day between closing one day's trades and reopening the next day's trading. This break varies from 30 to 60 minutes, depending on the product of trading.


   The End of Open Outcry Trading  

While open outcry dates back centuries as the dominant method for trading, most exchanges now use electronic trading systems. These automated systems reduce costs, improve trade execution speed, and create an environment less prone to manipulation. They also make it easier to aggregate information for all interested parties. Electronic trading is now available, often for free, on home computers and smartphones.



Some professional traders lament that electronic trading cannot capture the intangible information upon which pit traders relied. As an example, electronic trading is void of the subjective assessment of a buyer or seller's intentions or motivations. Electronics do not relay the mood of the trading pit, which some pit traders found very useful in making trades.



A feel for this pit dynamic is now only available in past movies and documentaries. Trading Places, starring Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd, provided a rather comical, though somewhat informative look into the methods, frustrations, and information asymmetry that traders experienced in the pits. It is still referenced by people experienced in the profession trying to describe what it used to be like.



Despite such pop culture references, the reality is that trading is far more efficient in current times than in days past, as evidenced by increased execution speeds and decreased trading fees. Thus it is unlikely that open outcry will ever return or grow as a method for traders operating at an exchange.
What Is an Open Position?  

An open position in investing is any established or entered trade that has yet to close with an opposing trade. An open position can exist following a buy, a long position, a sell, or a short position. In any case, the position remains open until an opposing trade takes place.





Key Takeaways

An open position is a trade that has been established, but which has not yet been closed out with an opposing trade.If an investor owns 300 shares of a stock, they have an open position in that stock until it is sold.An open position represents market exposure for the investor, and the risk remains until the position is closed.Day traders open and close their positions in a matter of seconds and aim to have no open positions at the end of the day.


   Open Position Explained  

For example, an investor who owns 500 shares of a certain stock is said to have an open position in that stock. When the investor sells those 500 shares, the position closes. Buy-and-hold investors typically have one or more open positions at any given time. Short-term traders may execute "round-trip" trades; a position opens and closes within a relatively short period. Day traders and scalpers may even open and close a position within a few seconds, trying to catch minimal but multiple price movements throughout the day.


   Open Positions and Risk  

An open position represents market exposure for the investor. The risk exists until the position closes. Open positions can be held from minutes to years depending on the style and objective of the investor or trader.



Of course, portfolios are composed of many open positions. The amount of risk entailed with an open position depends on the size of the position relative to the account size and the holding period. Generally speaking, long holding periods are riskier because there is more exposure to unexpected market events.



The only way to eliminate exposure is to close out the open positions. Notably, closing a short position requires buying back the shares while closing long positions entails selling the long position.


   Open Position Diversification  

The recommendation for investors is to limit risk by only holding open positions that equate to 2% or less of their total portfolio value. By spreading out the open positions throughout various market sectors and asset classes, an investor can also reduce risk through diversification. For example, holding a 2% portfolio position in stocks spread out through multiple sectors—such as financials, information technology, health care, utilities, and consumer staples along with fixed-income assets such as government bonds—represents a diversified portfolio.



Investors adjust the allocation per sector according to market conditions, but keeping the positions to just 2% per stock can even out the risk. Using stop-losses to close out positions is also recommended to curtail losses and eliminate exposure of underperforming companies. Investors are always susceptible to systemic risk when holding open positions overnight.


   Open Position and Day Trading  

Day traders buy and sell securities within one trading day. The practice is common in the forex and stock markets. However, day trading is risky and not for the novice trader. A day trader attempts to close all their open positions before the end of the day. If they don't, they hold on to their risky position overnight or longer during which time the market could turn against them.



Day traders are typically disciplined experts; they have a plan and stick to it. Moreover, day traders often have plenty of money to gamble on day trading. The smaller the price movements, the more money is required to capitalize on those movements.
What Is Open Source?  

Open source refers to a software program or platform with source code that is readily accessible and can be modified or enhanced by anyone.



Open source access grants users of an application permission to fix broken links, enhance the design, or improve the original code.



Open source software (OSS) hubs, such as GitHub, are an example of a kind of open collaboration that can broaden design perspectives beyond those of a single company or design work group.



Open source practices can also lead to considerable savings for consumers. Many open source offerings are provided for free, relying on a shareware or donation model rather than a purchase price.





Key Takeaways

Open source refers to a project, often a software or IT development project, with freely available code and permission to make edits, bug fixes, alterations, and enhancements.Open source software efforts have been behind popular applications and operating systems including the Android OS for smartphones and the Firefox web browser.Open source relies on community engagement, trust, and permissive licensing strategies.An advantage of open source is the greater potential for innovative ideas and changes offered by a large community of coders compared to a single design firm.A disadvantage of open source is that no one entity is responsible for maintaining the software so flaws won't be fixed unless they're discovered.


   Understanding Open Source  

Open source is a perfect illustration of the adage “It takes a village to raise a child.” To perfect the usability of a product, multiple minds and talents are needed for various areas of a software product’s functionality.



Platforms developed and built on user collaboration can work better and have fewer bugs than those built by a single entity. Software developers who encourage the open source concept believe that, by giving any interested party the ability to modify a product’s source code, the application will be more usable and error-free over the long term.



Mozilla Firefox, Linux, WordPress, Bitcoin, and Android are popular examples of open source projects. By making their source codes available to all, open source products serve as educational tools for technology students who study the codes, learn from them, and opt to create even better codes.



Hence, better and more innovative applications are created from the foundation of previous open source applications. 






Dr. Richard Stallman spearheaded the free software movement in the 1980s. He believes that software users should be free to run, edit, add to, and share software.


   Open Source Licensing  

Open source promotes the free redistribution of source codes. Hence, it is also called free software. The source code creates the built-in functionality that guides how a software application works.



Traditionally, most software or apps that are purchased have codes that can be legally manipulated or modified only by the original creators—usually an individual, team, or organization.



This type of software is called proprietary software or closed source software. Proprietary software is equipped with licenses that compel its users to agree to guidelines erected by the original creator. It also can be expensive to buy.



Open source licenses differ from proprietary licenses in that users have to agree to the rules associated with modifying, using, and distributing the software.



For example, some open source licenses stipulate that if a user alters and distributes a program to others, they must also distribute the source code without charging a licensing fee.


   Open Source Advantages and Disadvantages  
  Advantages  

Because no permission is required when using an open source software application, programmers can usually fix and upgrade an application’s source code in less time than it could take with closed source. With closed source programs, the company or creators of the code have to be notified and users may have to wait a considerable amount of time before any changes have been made to the application.
In fintech areas such as big data, blockchain technology, and cloud computing, innovation is driven by a collaborative open source channel. Due to the tremendous amount of data that emerging technology feeds from, companies are adapting to open source techniques and sharing the work load with external users who can contribute and find new possibilities for the shared data.
The spirit of open source has spread beyond contributing to code. Technology innovators, developers, and programmers have devised applications to support collaboration among users all over the world in all sorts of areas, including peer-to-peer insurance.


  Disadvantages  

Security can be at risk with open source software due to its accessibility by those who potentially would exploit code for malicious purposes.No one person or organization is necessarily responsible for the back end of an open source software program. So a flaw or breach may not be addressed until a user or coder happens to find it. If an open source program isn't being updated or improved, it could become unreliable, ineffective, and potentially unusable by some.




Why Does Open Source Exist?
Open source software programs exist because their creators felt it was important and useful to reveal the coding and make it editable by anyone. These individuals believe that others can improve their product. They may also feel that the cost to use similar programs is prohibitive and they prefer that their program be freely available to all.




Can Open Source Be Harmful to Users?
Possibly. Any source code can have flaws that threaten the security of, say, user information. Such flaws in open source code must be located and fixed without a dedicated coder or team that monitors for them. Open source invites anyone to edit the code and that can open the door to unwelcome behavior.




What Was the First Example of Open Source?
One early example involves the Remington Rand UNIVAC division. In 1953, the company gave its customers the software and its source code. Customers were encouraged to send the company feedback and improvements.


   The Bottom Line  

Open source refers to making the source code of software programs and platforms accessible by all. Individuals are invited to edit the code with the purpose of improving programs for users' benefit. Closed source software is proprietary and accessible by only its creator.



Open source software has been involved with a variety of well-known programs and projects, including the Firefox browser, the WordPress content management system, and the Android operating system.
What Is Open Trade Equity (OTE)?  

Open Trade Equity (OTE) is the net of unrealized gain or loss on open derivatives positions. Put differently, OTE is the paper gains and losses represented by the current market value and the price paid (or received) for a position. Once the position is closed, the gain or loss will become realized.





Key Takeaways

Open Trade Equity (OTE) represents the amount of an unrealized gain or loss on an open position before it has been closed out.OTE is useful in providing traders a better picture of their actual p&l, especially when trades are margined.A positive OTE improves the odds of realizing a profit while a negative OTE raises the odds of realizing a loss.


   Understanding Open Trade Equity  

OTE is especially important for margin investors as fluctuations impact the available equity in their account. If the unrealized losses cause the available equity to drop below their contracted maintenance margin then a margin call is issued where the investor is forced to deposit additional funds to bring the available equity back above the contracted maintenance margin or liquidate all or a portion of their open positions.



Total Equity = Account Balance ± Open Trade Equity



Because maintenance margins are contracted with a broker, investors are legally bound to maintain their margins. In the event an investor is unable or unwilling to deposit cash or sell holdings at the time of a margin call, their brokerage is empowered to close open positions from their client’s portfolio at their discretion in order to restore the account to its minimum value.



Open Trade Equity (OTE) measures the difference between the initial trade price of all open positions and the last traded price of each of those positions. The term is derived from the fact that the established positions have not yet been offset. It is useful in providing the trader with an accurate snapshot of the actual value of an account as all open positions are marked-to-market. In other words, how much equity (money) is in the account if all the positions were closed at the prevailing market rates.


   Example of OTE  

For instance, say a trader has $10,000 in an account and uses it to purchase 50 shares of XYZ at $200 per share. The total investment is $10,000 and the OTE at the instance of the trade being executed is zero. The next day the value of each share increases to $250. Now the trader has $2,500 in unrealized gains in that trade, which means that the OTE for that holding is also up $2,500 and the total equity in the account is up to $12,500. If they were to liquidate this position then the gains are said to have been realized; the account balance would have increased by $2,500 to $12,500, and the OTE would be zero.



If one does not liquidate the position and the price drops to $100, they would incur a $5,000 unrealized loss on that holding. Unless the position is sold or closed, this loss remains unrealized but the OTE is negative $5,000 and the total account equity is down to $5,000. A negative OTE indicates a paper loss; a positive OTE shows a paper gain.


   Open Trade Equity at Margin Call  

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) requires that any investor wishing to open a margin account must begin with at least $2,000 in cash or securities. FINRA requires that the investor agree to a maintenance margin of at least 25%, meaning that the investor must maintain an account balance of at least 25% of the total market value of the securities held in the account at all times. Typically this maintenance margin is contracted at a higher percentage, and it is common practice for maintenance margins to be 30% or more.



For instance, an investor wants to buy 500 shares of a stock trading at $20/share. They do not have the $10,000 needed to do this so they open a $5,000 account with a broker who has a 50% initial margin and a 35% maintenance margin requirement. Investor purchases $10,000 worth of shares which means that they have borrowed $5,000 from the broker. At the instance of execution, the OTE is zero, total value of investment is $10,000, initial margin is $5,000 (50% x $10,000) and the maintenance margin is $3,500 (35% x $10,000).



The price begins to decline to where the total value of 500 shares falls to $6,000, which means that the OTE is negative $4,000. The $5,000 that the investor put up as margin is now worth $3,000 ($5,000 - 50% x $4,000). This is below the $3,500 maintenance margin requirement so the investor receives a margin call.



At this point, the investor will be required to make a deposit into the margin account to satisfy the 50% requirement, in this case $2,000. This can take the form of a cash deposit or marginable securities. They may also choose to take a loss on the investment by liquidating all or a portion of their open positions thereby reducing their margin requirements. This usually results in realizing a loss on their trade.
What Is the Opening Bell?  

The opening bell refers to the moment a securities exchange opens for its normal daily trading session. The time and conditions of the opening bell differ from one exchange to another.



The most famous opening bell is the one used by the New York Stock Exchange to signal the start of trading.





Key Takeaways

The opening bell represents the start of a regular trading session on an exchange.It is largely symbolic since the majority of trading is electronic and trading is rarely conducted on a physical trading floor.The opening bell gives occasion for exchanges to make news and better market securities during an initial public offering (IPO).Celebrities and visiting dignitaries are often invited to ring the opening bell as a symbolic ritual for traders in the stock market. The NYSE's bell calendar lists all of the people scheduled to ring the opening bell. 


   Understanding the Opening Bell  

Since 1985, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) has used the opening bell to start its trading session at 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. At the NYSE there is a physical bell and an automated ringer that sounds at the beginning of each trading day. On the Nasdaq exchange, where this is no physical trading floor, the opening of the market is referred to as the opening bell, but it is symbolic in significance.



Physical trading floors have all but disappeared over the years with the rise of electronic trading. Investors and traders use the term opening bell to describe the opening of a given market. The physical ringing of the opening bell has become a ceremonious event where dignitaries visiting the stock markets or companies that are trading for the first day are given the honor of ringing the bell.



This serves a useful function of drawing attention to the day's trading activities and helps maintain the interest of investors. For this reason, media companies such as CNBC, Fox, and Cheddar have on-location fixtures in the last of the well-known formal, physical trading floors in existence, the NYSE.



Without these media companies having a place to report on the trading session, the exchange would find it hard to justify the continued operation of the trading floor since so much there is automated anyway. Accordingly, the Nasdaq exchange, which was electronic from its inception, has no physical trading floor and has created a media space for the purpose of featuring its opening bell ceremonies.



The first bell was actually a large gong used on the NYSE to officially notify brokers and dealers that it was okay to begin the work of auctioning prices. However, in 1903, the gong was replaced by an electronically operated brass bell. The bell is accompanied by the gavel that is used in conjunction with the closing bell in recognition of 19th century stock calls.






The opening and closing bell can be viewed each day on the the New York Stock Exchange’s website.



The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Exchange open at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and close at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, but different exchanges all around the world open at different times of the day. For example, many futures markets have an opening bell followed by a morning and afternoon session. The options markets also tend to have different opening bells depending on the exchange. Traders should be aware of these times before trading in the market.



In the foreign exchange (forex) market, there is no opening bell since the market operates 24 hours a day, six days per week. The start of the trading day, however, is often considered to be 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time until the same time the next day.






The original opening bell at the NYSE was a Chinese gong.


   Trading Before the Opening Bell  

Many exchanges offer pre-market trading that occurs before the opening bell. During this time, traders and investors who have access to the extended session trading may place trades with one another.



But there are no market specialist or market makers during these hours, and trading is done with limit orders only. Trades must therefore be exact matches in terms of size and offer time. This means that trades made in these hours may take more time to fill and be less efficient in their pricing. As a result fewer traders participate in such sessions.



One notable exception is when earnings announcements are made. If a company announces its quarterly results before the opening bell, then an unusual flurry of activity is likely to take place on that particular stock.



The added participants all rushing to make trades based on the new information means that trading in those moments can occasionally mimic the speed and efficiency of price action that a regular session might provide. This flurry of activity may also occur sporadically based on news that is released overnight or before the opening bell.



While pre-market trading has its advantages, there are several important risk factors. Pre-market trading tends to have less liquidity than trading during regular hours, which means that bid-ask spreads may be wider and price action may be significantly more volatile.



Many pre-market and after-hours traders are also institutional investors trading in mutual funds and hedge funds, which means that retail investors must compete with professionals who are better equipped to work their orders than the average individual investor.



Some markets, such as the forex and cryptocurrency markets, do not have an opening bell. Trading in those markets occurs every day, 24/7.




What Time Is the Opening Bell on Wall Street?
The New York Stock Exchange rings the opening bell at 9:30 AM every day, except weekends and holidays. The Nasdaq opens at the same time, but as an automated market the bell is purely ceremonial.




Why Does the Stock Market Ring the Bell Every Opening and Closing?
The opening and closing bells on the stock market tell traders when they are allowed to start or stop trading. In early stock markets, this role was played by a gavel. In today's world of automated markets, the bell is less important, but it still plays a symbolic role.




Why Do They Clap at the Opening Bell?
The opening bell is an important symbol of the success of the stock market under capitalism, and the privilege of ringing it is often reserved for celebrities or VIPs. Traders often applaud when the market opens, particularly if the person ringing the bell is someone famous or highly accomplished.




What Time Is the Opening Bell for the Nasdaq?
The Nasdaq opens at 9:30 AM on weekdays. Although trading is automatic, the opening bell ritual has strong symbolic importance. Many business people see an opportunity to ring the bell as a chance to build their brands and highlight their companies.




How Do I Find Out Who Rang the Opening Bell Today?
The New York Stock Exchange has a Bell Calendar that lists the people who are invited to ring the opening bell every day. Other stock exchanges may have their own bell calendars as well.
What Is the Opening Cross?  

The opening cross is a method the Nasdaq uses to determine the opening price for an individual share of the stocks that trade on its exchange. This method accumulates data on the buy and sell interest among market participants for a particular security two minutes before the market opens. The Nasdaq makes this information available to all investors.



According to Nasdaq, the opening and closing cross processes give all investors access to the same information, and ensures their orders get the same treatment. This brings fairness and transparency into the marketplace. It also efficiently matches buyers and sellers to ensure market liquidity (that is, the ability for investors to find ready purchasers if they need to sell their positions quickly).





Key Takeaways

The opening cross is the way the Nasdaq determines the opening price for individual shares of a stock that trades on its exchange.The process is undertaken to reflect the change in sentiment (and share price) regarding a stock between the closing of the market yesterday and the opening of the market today. An auction process determines prices for the opening cross, with buyers and sellers placing offers and counteroffers until prices match, resulting in a trade. The aim of the opening cross is to avoid surprises and give all investors the same information about how in-demand a particular stock is, right at the market open.


   Understanding the Opening Cross  

However, things can change in the world of share prices at any time—even when a stock exchange like Nasdaq is technically closed. Events and news announcements that occur outside those hours can cause the stock to open lower or higher in the morning than where it closed the day before. As a result, many retail and even professional traders won’t execute orders too near the open or close of a market, especially with market orders (those to be executed immediately), fearing volatility to either the upside or downside.



The opening cross tries to limit such volatility, by reflecting the change in sentiment regarding a stock between the closing price the day before and the opening price in the morning. In this way, it prevents surprises shortly after the "market open"—that is, when the Nasdaq exchange opens for business—which is typically one of the most active trading periods. This gives investors greater confidence that the quoted price fairly reflects supply-and-demand conditions within the first minutes of the trading day.


   How the Opening Cross Works  

Nasdaq's regular trading hours are between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday. However, Nasdaq accepts trade requests for several hours after the market closes and several hours before it opens.



The opening cross process consolidates all of these requests, conducting an auction process. Buyers and sellers place offers and counteroffers until prices match, resulting in a trade. The objective is to achieve maximum execution by getting the greatest number of shares of a given security to trade at a single price.



Nasdaq makes the resulting data available electronically. This gives market participants a greater window into the bid-ask spread, and identifies any order imbalances, meaning situations where buyers and sellers cannot be matched.






Nasdaq Market-on-Open (MOO) orders can be placed, changed, or canceled from 7:30 a.m. until 9:28 a.m. Eastern time on weekdays.


   Example of an Opening Cross  

Under the open-cross system, price matches use a 10% threshold, or buffer, to calculate the opening price of a stock.



For example, if a buyer offers $100 per share for a given stock and a seller wants $110, the midpoint of the offer is $105. This midpoint is then multiplied by 10%. The resulting $10.50 is then added to the buyer's offering price, moving it to $110.50 and subtracted from the seller's price, moving it to $99.50. This tells investors that the opening price for the shares in question is between $99.50 and $110.50.



The opening cross performs this type of calculation for all stocks and provides updated information to potential buyers and sellers every five seconds electronically.



Additionally, the open cross system shows detailed information about the prices at which orders are expected to clear against each other, the number of paired buy-sell offers, and the imbalance between offers. As potential buyers and sellers see this data, they then place additional trades, which the system also incorporates.
WHAT IS AN Opening Imbalance Only Order (OIO)  

Opening Imbalance Only Orders (OIO) are a type of limit order that provides liquidity during the opening cross on the Nasdaq. A limit order is an order placed with a brokerage to execute a buy or sell transaction at a set number of shares and a specified limit price.


   BREAKING DOWN Opening Imbalance Only Order (OIO)  

Opening Imbalance Only (OIO) orders are only executable on the opening cross and are not displayed or disseminated. OIO buy orders only execute at or below the 9:30 a.m. bid price, while OIO sell orders only execute at or above the 9:30 a.m. offer price. OIO orders must necessarily be limit orders, and market OIO orders are not permitted. Since OIO orders are only executable during the opening cross, they are not at risk of being executed prior to market open, unlike continuous market orders.﻿﻿



OIO buy or sell orders priced more aggressively than the 9:30 a.m. Nasdaq highest bid or lowest offer prior to market open will be re-priced to the Nasdaq bid or offer before the opening cross is executed.﻿﻿



So, for example, if an OIO buy order price is $9.95 and the Nasdaq bid is at $9.93, the OIO order will be re-priced to $9.93. This adds liquidity to the market and helps ensure that Market-On-Open (MOO) and Limit-On-Open (LOO) orders are properly executed.



OIO orders are accepted on the Nasdaq from 7 a.m. onward. However, market participants cannot update these orders after 9:28 a.m., although new OIO orders can still be entered after that time.﻿﻿


   NASDAQ  

Opening Imbalance Only Orders (OIOs) are executed within the Nasdaq. Nasdaq is a global electronic marketplace for buying and selling securities, and also serves as the benchmark index for U.S. technology stocks. The National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) created Nasdaq to enable investors to trade securities on a computerized and transparent system. In 2006, Nasdaq officially separated from the NASD and began to operate as a national securities exchange.﻿﻿



The term Nasdaq is also used to refer to the Nasdaq Composite, which is an index of more than 2,500 stocks listed on the Nasdaq exchange that include some of the world’s largest technology and biotech giants such as Apple, Google, Microsoft, Oracle, Amazon, Intel and Amgen.



Nasdaq has been a leader in trading technology from its inception. The Nasdaq computerized trading system was initially devised as an alternative to the inefficient specialist system, which had been the prevalent model for trading for nearly 100 years. Today, due to rapid technological advancements, Nasdaq’s electronic trading model is the standard for markets worldwide.
What Is Opening Price?  

The opening price is the price at which a security first trades upon the opening of an exchange on a trading day; for example, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) opens at precisely 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. The price of the first trade for any listed stock is its daily opening price. The opening price is an important marker for that day's trading activity, particularly for those interested in measuring short-term results such as day traders.





Key Takeaways

The opening price is the price at which a security first trades when an exchange opens for the day.An opening price is not identical to the previous day's closing price.There are several day-trading strategies based on the opening price of a market or security.


   How Opening Price Works  

The NASDAQ uses an approach called the "opening cross" to decide the best opening price considering the orders that accumulated overnight. Typically, a security's opening price is not identical to its prior day closing price. The difference is because after-hours trading has changed investor valuations or expectations for the security.


   Special Considerations  

Corporate announcements or other news events that occur after the market closes can change investor expectations and an opening price. Large-scale natural disasters or man-made disasters, such as wars or terrorist attacks that occur in after-hours, may have similar effects on stock prices. When these events occur, some investors may try to buy or sell securities during the after-hours.



Not all orders are executed during after-hours trading. The lack of liquidity and the resulting wide spreads make market orders unattractive to traders in after-hours trading because it's much more challenging to complete a transaction at a predictable price with a market order, and limit orders often won't get filled.



When the market opens the next day, this large amount of limit or stop orders—placed at prices different from the prior day's closing price—causes a substantial disparity in supply and demand. This disparity makes the opening price veer away from the previous day's close in the direction that corresponds to the effect of whatever market forces are moving the stock price.


   Opening Price Trading Strategies  

There are several day-trading strategies based on the opening of a market. When the opening price varies so much from the prior day’s close that it creates a price gap, day traders use a strategy known as “Gap Fade and Fill.” Traders attempt to profit from the price correction that usually takes place after a sizable price gap at the opening.



Another popular strategy is to fade a stock at the open that is showing strong pre-market indications contrary to the rest of the market or similar stocks in a common sector or index. When a strong disparity is present in pre-market indications, a trader waits for the stock to make a move at the open, contrary to the rest of the market.



The trader then takes a position in the stock in the market's general direction when momentum and volume of the initial contrary stock price movement diminishes. These are high probability strategies designed to achieve quick small profits when executed correctly.


   Opening Price Example  

On Jan. 25, 2022, the opening price for Apple (AAPL) was $158.98. The stock rose to a high of $162.76, but it closed at $159.78.
What Is the Opening Range?  

The term opening range (OR) refers to a security's high and low price for a short period just after the market opens, often the first fifteen minutes of the trading day. Day traders often monitor a stock's opening range because it can provide an indication of market sentiment and price trends for the day. They often use the opening range to help secure and maximize their profits





Key Takeaways

The opening range shows a security's high and low prices for a given period after the market opens.Opening ranges are important to traders because they can provide an indication of sentiment and price trends for the day.Traders often monitor opening ranges before or after periods of heightened volatility.Many traders follow the opening range after a major event or announcement.Traders can use different patterns, technical analysis, and timeframes to track the opening range.


   Understanding the Opening Range  

The opening range is one of several price ranges that technical analysts follow when watching a chart. Trading ranges, in general, can be a powerful indicator for technical analysts. The opening range often shows strength, weakness, or a sideways trend with no clear sentiment. Most charts display the day's high and low, which shows the exact trading range from open through the current time period.



Many investors follow the opening range of a security's price before or after a significant announcement, such as when a company releases its quarterly earnings report, to gauge price direction. Investors may also choose to follow a stock's opening range to consider its sentiment in conjunction with a potential trading idea.



Traders can use varying patterns, other forms of technical analysis, and multiple timeframes to track the opening range. A stock's opening price in comparison to the previous day's closing price, for example, may help determine the day's trend. Traders can then apply Bollinger Bands, which provide a hypothetical support and resistance band drawn two standard deviations above and below a stock price's moving average.



When the price violates the opening range band, traders can position for either a breakout or reversion to the mean. Some investors may choose to follow only a few minutes of the opening price action, while others may prefer to see an hour or more before drawing a conclusion from the opening range.


   Example of Opening Range Trading  

Investors and traders can monitor opening ranges using a variety of charting resources. The chart below shows the opening range of the social networking service X (formerly Twitter), several days after the company released its 2019 second-quarter earnings.



The opening range between the dotted trendlines shows the first 25 minutes of trading activity, with the stock's price printing a low at $41.08 and a high at $41.65. A breakout at 9:55 a.m. above the opening range and the previous day's high gives traders an indication of further upside intraday momentum, and to favor long positions over short positions.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Stop-loss orders could sit below the breakout candle or beneath the opening range low, depending on preferred risk tolerance. Traders may decide to take profits using a multiple of risk. For example, if using a 30-cent stop, traders might set a 60-cent profit target. Alternatively, traders may implement a trailing stop, such as exiting if the price closes below a moving average, to let profits run. For example, those who used this exit strategy got stopped out at 11:50 a.m. when the stock's price closed below the 10-period simple moving average (SMA).






X's stock was officially delisted on Nov. 8, 2022, after it was taken private by Elon Musk.




Why Is the Opening Range Important?
The opening range is important for some traders as it can be a period of high volume and volatility that then sets the tone for the rest of the trading day. Indeed, some research points to the fact that a day's high or low being printed during the opening minutes of trading is far more frequent than a random walk would suggest.




How Do Day Traders Use the Opening Range?
Day traders frequently use the trading range of the first half hour of the trading session as a reference point for their intraday strategies. For example, a trader might buy a stock if it breaks above its opening trading range.




What Is an at-the-Opening Order?
An at-the-opening order instructs one's broker to buy or sell a security for their account right at the very beginning of the trading day. If the order cannot be executed at the opening of the market, it will be canceled.


   The Bottom Line  

Traders look at many different variables when they're making their investment decisions. The opening range is one of those tools. This is the high and low price of an asset shortly after the market opens. The OR helps traders because it can help them understand the tone of the trading day ahead in terms of market sentiment and price. As such, it's an easily understood strategy with identifiable entry and exit points.
What Are Operating Activities?  

Operating activities are the functions of a business directly related to providing its goods and/or services to the market. These are the company's core business activities, such as manufacturing, distributing, marketing, and selling a product or service. Operating activities will generally provide the majority of a company’s cash flow and largely determine whether it is profitable. Some common operating activities include cash receipts from goods sold, payments to employees, taxes, and payments to suppliers. These activities can be found on a company's financial statements and in particular the income statement and cash flow statement.



Operating activities are distinguished from investing or financing activities, which are functions of a company not directly related to the provision of goods and services. Instead, financing and investing activities help the company function optimally over the longer term. This means that the issuance of stock or bonds by a company are not counted as operating activities.






Key operating activities for a company include manufacturing, sales, advertising, and marketing activities.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   The Basics of Operating Activities  

Operating activities are the daily activities of a company involved in producing and selling its product, generating revenues, as well as general administrative and maintenance activities. The operating income shown on a company's financial statements is the operating profit remaining after deducting operating expenses from operating revenues. There is typically an operating activities section of a company's statement of cash flows that shows inflows and outflows of cash resulting from a company's key operating activities. 



In the event of ambiguity, operating activities can readily be identified by classification in financial statements. Many companies report operating income or income from operations as a specific line on the income statement. Operating income is calculated by subtracting the cost of sales (COGS), research and development (R&D) expenses selling and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization expenses.



Operating income excludes interest income or expenses. For example, an apparel store's operating activities might include the following:



Buying materials from suppliers and paying for labor to produce clothingPaying to transport the materials to the factory and the clothes from factories to warehousesArranging transport from warehouses to retail stores and mail-order customersPaying employees to work in warehouses and retail storesPaying managers to oversee operationsPaying taxesPaying rent on warehouse and retail facilities



Other less common operating activities include fines or cash settlements from lawsuits, refunds and money collected from insurance claims.





Key Takeaways

Operating activities are the daily activities of a company involved in producing and selling its product, generating revenues, as well as general administrative and maintenance activities.Key operating activities for a company include manufacturing, sales, advertising, and marketing activities.Cash flows from operations are an important metric used by financial analysts and investors.Operating activities can be contrasted with the investing and financing activities of a firm.


  Operating Revenues  

The key operating activities that produce revenues for a company are manufacturing and selling its products or services. Sales activities can include selling the company's own in-house manufactured products or products supplied by other companies, as in the case of retailers. Companies that primarily sell services may or may not also sell products.



For example, a spa business, in addition to providing services such as massages, may also seek additional revenue income from the sale of health and beauty products.



Interest and dividend income, while part of overall operational cash flow, are not considered to be key operating activities since they are not part of a company's core business activities.


  Operating Expenses  

Expenses generated from key operating activities include manufacturing costs, as well as the expenses of advertising and marketing the company's products or services. Manufacturing costs include all the direct production costs included in cost of goods sold (COGS).



Operating costs related to advertising and marketing include the expenses of advertising the company and its products or services using various media outlets, whether through traditional or online platforms. In addition, marketing costs include such things as appearing at trade shows and participating in public events such as charity fundraisers.


  Operating Activities and the Cash Flow Statement  

Cash flows from operating activities are among the major subsections of the statement of cash flows. It is separate from the sections on investing and financing activities. Investing activities refer to earnings or expenditures on long-term assets, such as equipment and facilities, while financing activities are the cash flows between a company and its owners and creditors from activities such as issuing bonds, retiring bonds, selling stock or buying back stock.



To get an accurate picture of a company’s cash flow from operating activities, accountants add depreciation expenses, losses decrease in current assets and increases in current liabilities to net income, and then subtract gains, increases in current assets and decreases in current liabilities. Investors examine a company’s cash flow from operating activities separately from the other two components of cash flow to see where a company is really getting its money.



Investors want to see positive cash flow because of positive income from operating activities, which are recurring, not because the company is selling off all its assets, which results in one-time gains. The company’s balance sheet and income statement help round out the picture of its financial health.


   An Example of Cash Flow from Operating Activities  

Let’s look at the cash flow details of the leading technology company Apple Inc. (AAPL). The iPhone maker reported the following for the fiscal year ended September 2017:



Net income of $48.35 billionDepreciation, depletion, and amortization of $10.16 billionDeferred taxes and investment tax credit of $5.97 billionOther funds of $4.67 billion﻿﻿



Following the first formula, the summation of these numbers brings the value for funds from operations as $69.15 billion. The net change in working capital for the same period was (-5.55 billion). Adding it to funds from operations gives the cash flow from operating activities for Apple as ($69.15 - $5.55) = $63.6 billion.﻿﻿
What Is Operating Cash Flow (OCF)?  

Operating cash flow (OCF) is a measure of the amount of cash generated by a company's normal business operations. Operating cash flow indicates whether a company can generate sufficient positive cash flow to maintain and grow its operations, otherwise, it may require external financing for capital expansion.





Key Takeaways

Operating cash flow is an important benchmark to determine the financial success of a company's core business activities.Operating cash flow is the first section depicted on a cash flow statement, which also includes cash from investing and financing activities.There are two methods for depicting operating cash flow on a cash flow statement—the indirect method and the direct method.The indirect method begins with net income from the income statement then adds back non-cash items to arrive at a cash basis figure.The direct method tracks all transactions in a period on a cash basis and uses actual cash inflows and outflows on the cash flow statement.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Operating Cash Flow (OCF)  

Operating cash flow represents the cash impact of a company's net income (NI) from its primary business activities. Operating cash flow—also referred to as cash flow from operating activities—is the first section presented on the cash flow statement.



Two methods of presenting the operating cash flow section are acceptable under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)—the indirect method or the direct method. However, if the direct method is used, the company must still perform a separate reconciliation to the indirect method.



Operating cash flows concentrate on cash inflows and outflows related to a company's main business activities, such as selling and purchasing inventory, providing services, and paying salaries. Any investing and financing transactions are excluded from the operating cash flows section and reported separately, such as borrowing, buying capital equipment, and making dividend payments. Operating cash flow can be found on a company's statement of cash flows, which is broken down into cash flows from operations, investing, and financing.


   How to Calculate Operating Cash Flow  
  Indirect Method  

Using the indirect method, net income is adjusted to a cash basis using changes in non-cash accounts, such as depreciation, accounts receivable (AR), and accounts payable (AP). Because most companies report the net income on an accrual basis, it includes various non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization.



The calculation for OCF using the indirect method uses the following formula:



OCF = NI + D&A - NWC



Where NI represents the company's net income, D&A represents depreciation and amortization, and NWC is the increase in net working capital.



Net income must also be adjusted for changes in working capital accounts on the company's balance sheet. For example, an increase in AR indicates that revenue was earned and reported in net income on an accrual basis although cash has not been received. This increase in AR must be subtracted from net income to find the true cash impact of the transactions.



Conversely, an increase in AP indicates that expenses were incurred and booked on an accrual basis that has not yet been paid. This increase in AP would need to be added back to net income to find the true cash impact.



Consider a manufacturing company that reports a net income of $100 million, while its operating cash flow is $150 million. The difference results from a depreciation expense of $150 million, an increase in accounts receivable of $50 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $50 million. It would appear on the operating cash flow section of the cash flow statement in this manner:









 Net Income
$100M


 Depreciation
 Add back $150M


 Increase in AR
 Less $50M


 Decrease in AP
 Less $50M


 Operating Cash Flow
 $150M





  Direct Method  

The second option is the direct method, in which a company records all transactions on a cash basis and displays the information using actual cash inflows and outflows during the accounting period. Examples of items included in the presentation of the direct method of operating cash flow include:



Salaries paid out to employeesCash paid to vendors and suppliersCash collected from customersInterest income and dividends receivedIncome tax paid and interest paid



This method is simpler than the indirect method because there are fewer factors to consider. However, it only accounts for cash revenues and expenses. It is calculated with the formula:



OCF = Cash Revenue — Operating Expenses Paid in Cash


   Importance of Operating Cash Flow  

Financial analysts sometimes prefer to look at cash flow metrics because they strip away certain accounting anomalies. Operating cash flow, specifically, provides a clearer picture of the current reality of the business operations.



For example, booking a large sale provides a big boost to revenue, but if the company is having a hard time collecting the cash, then it is not a true economic benefit for the company. On the other hand, a company may generate high amounts of operating cash flow but report a very low net income if it has a lot of fixed assets and uses accelerated depreciation calculations.



If a company is not bringing in enough money from its core business operations, it will need to find temporary sources of external funding through financing or investing. However, this is unsustainable in the long run. Therefore, operating cash flow is an important figure to assess the financial stability of a company's operations.


   Operating Cash Flow vs. Free Cash Flow  

Operating cash flow is different from free cash flow (FCF), the cash that a company generates after accounting for operations and other cash outflows. Both metrics are commonly used to assess the financial health of a firm.



The main difference is that FCF also accounts for capital expenditures, Free cash flow is calculated by:



FCF = Cash from operations (CFO) — Capital Expenditures


   Operating Cash Flow vs. Net Income  

Operating cash flow should also be distinguished from net income, representing the difference between sales revenue and the costs of goods, operating expenses, taxes, and other costs. When using the indirect method to calculate operating cash flow, net income is one of the initial variables.



While both metrics can be used to measure the financial health of a firm, the main difference between operating cash flow and net income is the time gap between sales and actual payments. If payments are delayed, there may be a large difference between net income and operating cash flow.




What Are the 3 Types of Cash Flows?
The three types of cash flow are operating, investing, and financing. Operating cash flow includes all cash generated by a company's main business activities. Investing cash flow includes all purchases of capital assets and investments in other business ventures. Financing cash flow includes all proceeds gained from issuing debt and equity as well as payments made by the company.




Why Is Operating Cash Flow Important?
Operating cash flow is an important benchmark to determine the financial success of a company's core business activities as it measures the amount of cash generated by a company's normal business operations. Operating cash flow indicates whether a company can generate sufficient positive cash flow to maintain and grow its operations, otherwise, it may require external financing for capital expansion.




How Do You Calculate Operating Cash Flow?
Using the indirect method, net income is adjusted to a cash basis using changes in non-cash accounts, such as depreciation, accounts receivable, and accounts payable (AP). Because most companies report the net income on an accrual basis, it includes various non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization. Operating Cash Flow = Operating Income + Depreciation – Taxes + Change in Working Capital.




Is Operating Cash Flow the Same as EBIT?
EBIT is a financial term meaning earnings before interest and taxes, sometimes referred to as operating income. This is different from operating cash flow (OCF), the cash flow generated from the company's normal business operations. The main difference is that OCF also accounts for interest and taxes as part of a company's normal business operations.




What Is a Good Operating Cash Flow Ratio?
The operating cash flow ratio represents a company's ability to pay its debts with its existing cash flows. It is determined by dividing operating cash flow by current liabilities. A ratio greater than 1.0 indicates that a company is in a strong position to pay its debts without incurring additional liabilities.
What Is Operating Cash Flow Demand (OCFD)?  

The term operating cash flow demand (OCFD) refers to the amount of operating cash flow an entity needs in order to meet the objectives of its strategic investments. An OCFD is integral for both investors and corporate entities. For investors, it represents the total amount of capital required in order to the desired return over the entire life of the investment. A company's OCFD, on the other hand, is used to compute the cash value added to a company's strategic investments and operations. The OCFD allows entities to make smart decisions about how they spend their money on certain investments.





Key Takeaways

Operating cash flow demand is the amount of operating cash flow an investor needs to meet the objectives its strategic investments.For individual investors, the OCFD is the capital needed to achieve the desired return on investment.Corporations use the OCFD to compute the cash value added of their strategic investments and operations.Knowing the OCFD allows investors to make smart decisions about how they spend their money on certain investments.


   Understanding Operating Cash Flow Demand (OCFD)  

A strategic investment is any investment that allows an investor to achieve a specific goal. An individual who wants to generate a steady, risk-free stream of income may choose a bond as a strategic investment to achieve this goal. A corporation may enter a joint venture with another company as a joint venture in order to gain access to another market. All in all, strategic investment is one that fits the investor's short- or long-term game plan.



Investors need capital or operating cash flow in order to meet the initial and ongoing needs of their investments. The operating cash flow demand (OCFD), therefore, is the amount of cash flow needed for each strategic investment to have a net present value of zero, or achieve minimum profitability.



As noted above, calculating the OCFD helps entities make wiser decisions about their investments. This figure effectively helps investors decide whether to approve or reject the idea of a particular investment. If the cost of the investment is worth more than the benefit, the investor can nix the deal.


   Example of Operating Cash Flow Demand (OCFD)  

Let's use the hypothetical example of a manufacturing corporation to show how operating cash flow demands work. Let's say the company wants to enter a new market. In order to do so, it must make a strategic investment in a new manufacturing plant and new machinery. The OCFD for this strategic investment would be the minimum amount of cash that the plant would need to generate over its life to meet the return required by investors.






The amount of money a company expects to earn determines how much it pays for the investment. So if a company wants to earn more, it should plan to pay more for a strategic investment.


   Real-World Example of Operating Cash Flow Demand (OCFD)  

Now let's take a look at how operating cash flow demand works with a real-life example. This one involves GUD Holdings, an Australian company that is the corporate parent for national household brands Ryco filters, Sunbeam, Davey Pumps, Lock Focus, and others.



Ian Campbell served as the company's chief executive officer (CEO) between 1998 and 2013. At that time, the company was struggling financially. This was primarily due to a series of acquisitions the company made in an attempt to grow and boost its presence in the market. Campbell used a leadership style that combined focus and discipline. leading GUD Holdings to profitability.



Campbell expected his company manager to generate strong financial results for a key performance indicator—cash value added (CVA). This benchmark is related to OCFD. Cash value added is a measure of a company's ability to generate cash flow in excess of its investors' required return on investments (ROI) by the company.



As CEO, Campbell expected each GUD division to exceed 10% weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which is the average rate that a company is expected to pay all its security holders to finance its assets. GUD's businesses are judged on the growth in the cash value added compared to the prior year. Campbell set an annual budget for each division. The WACC varied between businesses. Managers received bonuses if they achieved their targets.
What Is the Operating Cash Flow Margin?  

Operating cash flow margin is a cash flow ratio that measures cash from operating activities as a percentage of total sales revenue in a given period.



Like operating margin, it is a trusted metric of a company’s profitability and efficiency and its earnings quality.





Key Takeaways

The operating cash flow margin reveals how effectively a company converts sales to cash and is a good indicator of earnings quality.Operating cash flow margin is calculated by dividing operating cash flow by revenue. This ratio uses operating cash flow, which adds back non-cash expenses.This is what distinguishes it from operating margin, which uses operating income that excludes such expenses as depreciation.


   Understanding the Operating Cash Flow Margin  

Operating cash flow margin measures how efficiently a company converts sales into cash. It is a good indicator of earnings quality because it only includes transactions that involve the actual transfer of money.



Because cash flow is driven by revenues, overhead, and operating efficiency, it can be very telling, especially when comparing performance to competitors in the same industry. Has operating cash flow turned negative because the company is investing in its operations to make them even more profitable? Or does the company need an injection of outside capital to buy time to continue operating in a desperate attempt to turn around the business?



Just as companies can improve operating cash flow margin by using working capital more efficiently, they can also temporarily flatter operating cash flow margin by delaying the payment of accounts payable, chasing customers for payment, or running down inventory. But if a company’s operating cash flow margin is increasing from year to year, it indicates its free cash flow (FCF) is improving, as is its ability to expand its asset base and create long-term value for shareholders.


   Operating Cash Flow Margin vs. Operating Margin   

The operating cash flow margin is unlike the operating margin. The operating margin includes depreciation and amortization expenses. However, operating cash flow margin adds back non-cash expenses, such as depreciation. 



Operating margin is calculated as operating income divided by revenue. This is similar to operating cash flow margin except it uses operating income. Operating cash flow margin uses operating cash flow and not operating income.



Free cash flow margin is another cash margin measure, where it also adds in capital expenditures. In capital-intensive industries, with a high ratio of fixed to variable costs, a small increase in sales can lead to a large increase in operating cash flows, thanks to operational leverage.


   Operating Cash Flow Margin Example   

Operating Cash Flow = Net Income + Non-cash Expenses (Depreciation and Amortization) + Change in Working Capital



Assuming company ABC recorded the following information for 2018 business activities:



Sales = $5,000,000Depreciation = $100,000Amortization = $125,000Other Non-cash Expenses = $45,000Working Capital = $1,000,000Net Income = $2,000,000



And recorded the following information for 2019’s business activities:



Sales = $5,300,000Depreciation = $110,000Amortization = $130,000Other Non-cash Expenses = $55,000Working Capital = $1,300,000Net Income = $2,100,000



We calculate the cash flow from operating activities for 2019 as:



Cash Flow From Operating Activities = $2,100,000 + ($110,000 + $130,000 + $55,000) + ($1,300,000 - $1,000,000) = $2,695,000



To arrive at the operating cash flow margin, this number is divided by sales:



Operating Cash Flow Margin = $2,695,000 / $5,300,000 = 50.8%


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How does operating cash flow margin differ from operating margin?
Operating cash flow margin includes non-cash charges like depreciation and amortization. This highlights a firm's ability to turn revenues into cash flows from operations,




What are cash flows from operations?
Also called cash flows from operating activities, or abbreviated as CFO, this figure represents the amount of money flowing through a company that is related to its core business activities.




Is it better to have higher or lower operating cash flow margin?
A higher ratio is always better, as it indicates that a greater proportion of revenues are being turned into cash flows.
What Is the Operating Cash Flow Ratio?  

The operating cash flow ratio is a measure of how readily current liabilities are covered by the cash flows generated from a company's operations. This ratio can help gauge a company's liquidity in the short term.



Using cash flow as opposed to net income is considered a cleaner or more accurate measure since earnings are more easily manipulated.





Key Takeaways

The operating cash flow ratio indicates if a company's normal operations are sufficient to cover its near-term obligations.A higher ratio means that a company has generated more cash in a period than what was immediately needed to pay off current liabilities.Cash flow from operations (CFO) is preferred over net income because there is less room to manipulate results through accounting tricks.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   The Formula for the Operating Cash Flow Ratio  






Operating cash flow ratio


=



Operating cash flow


Current liabilities




\text{Operating cash flow ratio} = \frac {\text{Operating cash flow}}{\text{Current liabilities}}


Operating cash flow ratio=Current liabilitiesOperating cash flow​
The operating cash flow ratio is calculated by dividing operating cash flow by current liabilities. Operating cash flow is the cash generated by a company's normal business operations. 


  Operating Cash Flow Ratio Components  

A company generates revenues—and deducts the cost of goods sold (COGS) and other associated operating expenses, such as attorney fees and utilities, from those revenues. Cash flow from operations is the cash equivalent of net income. It is the cash flow after operating expenses have been deducted and before the commencement of new investments or financing activities.



Investors tend to prefer reviewing the cash flow from operations over net income because there is less room to manipulate results. However, together, cash flows from operations and net income can provide a good indication of the quality of a firm's earnings. 



Current liabilities are all liabilities due within one fiscal year (FY) or operating cycle, whichever is longer. They are found on the balance sheet and are typically regarded as liabilities due within one year.


   Understanding the Operating Cash Flow Ratio  

The operating cash flow ratio is a measure of the number of times a company can pay off current debts with cash generated within the same period. A high number, greater than one, indicates that a company has generated more cash in a period than what is needed to pay off its current liabilities.



An operating cash flow ratio of less than one indicates the opposite—the firm has not generated enough cash to cover its current liabilities. To investors and analysts, a low ratio could mean that the firm needs more capital.



However, there could be many interpretations, not all of which point to poor financial health. For example, a firm may embark on a project that compromises cash flows temporarily but renders substantial rewards in the future.


   The Operating Cash Flow Ratio vs. the Current Ratio  

Both the operating cash flow ratio and the current ratio measure a company’s ability to pay short-term debts and obligations.



The operating cash flow ratio assumes cash flow from operations will be used to pay those current obligations (i.e., current liabilities). The current ratio, meanwhile, assumes current assets will be used.


   Example of the Operating Cash Flow Ratio  

Consider two giants in the retail space, Walmart and Target. As of Feb. 27, 2019, the two had current liabilities of $77.5 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. Over the trailing 12 months, Walmart had generated $27.8 billion in operating cash flow, while Target generated $6 billion.



The operating cash flow ratio for Walmart is 0.36, or $27.8 billion divided by $77.5 billion. Target’s operating cash flow ratio works out to 0.34, or $6 billion divided by $17.6 billion. The two had similar ratios, meaning they had similar liquidity. Digging deeper, we find that the two also shared similar current ratios as well, further validating that they indeed had similar liquidity profiles.


   Limitations of Using the Operating Cash Flow Ratio  

Although not as prevalent as with net income, companies can manipulate operating cash flow ratios. Some companies deduct depreciation expenses from revenue even though it does not represent a real outflow of cash.



Depreciation expense is an accounting convention that is meant to write off the value of assets over time. As a result, companies should add depreciation back to cash in cash flow from operations.
What Are Operating Costs?  

Operating costs are associated with the maintenance and administration of a business on a day-to-day basis. Operating costs include direct costs of goods sold (COGS) and other operating expenses—often called selling, general, and administrative (SG&A)—which include rent, payroll, and other overhead costs, as well as raw materials and maintenance expenses. Operating costs exclude non-operating expenses related to financing, such as interest, investments, or foreign currency translation.



The operating cost is deducted from revenue to arrive at operating income and is reflected on a company’s income statement.





Key Takeaways

Operating costs are the ongoing expenses incurred from the normal day-to-day of running a business.Operating costs include both costs of goods sold (COGS) and other operating expenses—often called selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses.Common operating costs in addition to COGS may include rent, equipment, inventory costs, marketing, payroll, insurance, and funds allocated for research and development.Operating costs can be found and analyzed by looking at a company's income statement.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Operating Costs  

Businesses have to keep track of operating costs as well as the costs associated with non-operating activities, such as interest expenses on a loan. Both costs are accounted for differently in a company's books, allowing analysts to determine how costs are associated with revenue-generating activities and whether the business can be run more efficiently.



Generally speaking, a company’s management will seek to maximize profits for the company. Because profits are determined both by the revenue that the company earns and the amount the company spends in order to operate, profit can be increased both by increasing revenue and by decreasing operating costs. Because cutting costs generally seems like an easier and more accessible way of increasing profits, managers will often be quick to choose this method.



Trimming operating costs too much can reduce a company’s productivity and, as a result, its profit as well. While reducing any particular operating cost will usually increase short-term profits, it can also hurt the company’s earnings in the long term.



For example, if a company cuts its advertising costs, its short-term profits will likely improve since it is spending less money on operating costs. However, by reducing its advertising, the company might also reduce its capacity to generate new business such that earnings in the future could suffer.






Ideally, companies look to keep operating costs as low as possible while still maintaining the ability to increase sales.


   How to Calculate Operating Costs  

The following formula and steps can be used to calculate the operating cost of a business. You will find the information needed from the firm's income statement that is used to report the financial performance for the accounting period.








Operating cost


=


Cost of goods sold


+


Operating expenses



\text{Operating cost} = \text{Cost of goods sold} + \text{Operating expenses}


Operating cost=Cost of goods sold+Operating expenses



From a company's income statement, take the total cost of goods sold, or COGS, which can also be called cost of sales.Find total operating expenses, which should be further down the income statement.Add total operating expenses and COGS to arrive at the total operating costs for the period.


   Types of Operating Costs  

While operating costs generally do not include capital outlays, they can include many components of operating expenses, such as:



Accounting and legal fees
Bank charges
Sales and marketing costs
Travel expenses 
Entertainment costs
Non-capitalized research and development expenses
Office supply costs
Rent
Repair and maintenance costs
Utility expenses
Salary and wage expenses



Operating costs will also include the cost of goods sold, which are the expenses directly tied to the production of goods and services. Some of the costs include:



Direct material costsDirect laborRent of the plant or production facilityBenefits and wages for the production workersRepair costs of equipment Utility costs and taxes of the production facilities



A business’s operating costs are comprised of two components, fixed costs and variable costs, which differ in important ways.


   Fixed Costs  

A fixed cost is one that does not change with an increase or decrease in sales or productivity and must be paid regardless of the company’s activity or performance. For example, a manufacturing company must pay rent for factory space, regardless of how much it is producing or earning. While it can downsize and reduce the cost of its rent payments, it cannot eliminate these costs, and so they are considered to be fixed. Fixed costs generally include overhead costs, insurance, security, and equipment.



Fixed costs can help in achieving economies of scale, as when many of a company’s costs are fixed, the company can make more profit per unit as it produces more units. In this system, fixed costs are spread out over the number of units produced, making production more efficient as production increases by reducing the average per-unit cost of production. Economies of scale can allow large companies to sell the same goods as smaller companies for lower prices.



The economies of scale principle can be limited in that fixed costs generally need to increase with certain benchmarks in production growth. For example, a manufacturing company that increases its rate of production over a specified period will eventually reach a point where it needs to increase the size of its factory space in order to accommodate the increased production of its products.


   Variable Costs  

Variable costs, like the name implies, are comprised of costs that vary with production. Unlike fixed costs, variable costs increase as production increases and decrease as production decreases. Examples of variable costs include raw material costs and the cost of electricity. In order for a fast-food restaurant chain that sells french fries to increase its fry sales, for instance, it will need to increase its purchase orders of potatoes from its supplier.



It's sometimes possible for a company to achieve a volume discount or "price break" when purchasing supplies in bulk, wherein the seller agrees to slightly reduce the per-unit cost in exchange for the buyer’s agreement to regularly buy the supplies in large amounts. As a result, the agreement might diminish the correlation somewhat between an increase or decrease in production and an increase or decrease in the company’s operating costs.



For example, the fast-food company may buy its potatoes at $0.50 per pound when it buys potatoes in amounts of less than 200 pounds. However, the potato supplier may offer the restaurant chain a price of $0.45 per pound when it buys potatoes in bulk amounts of 200 to 500 pounds. Volume discounts generally have a small impact on the correlation between production and variable costs, and the trend otherwise remains the same.






Typically, companies with a high proportion of variable costs relative to fixed costs are considered to be less volatile, as their profits are more dependent on the success of their sales. In the same way, the profitability and risk for the same companies are also easier to gauge.


   Semi-Variable Costs  

In addition to fixed and variable costs, it is also possible for a company’s operating costs to be considered semi-variable (or “semi-fixed"). These costs represent a mixture of fixed and variable components and can be thought of as existing between fixed costs and variable costs. Semi-variable costs vary in part with increases or decreases in production, like variable costs, but still exist when production is zero, like fixed costs. This is what primarily differentiates semi-variable costs from fixed costs and variable costs.



An example of semi-variable costs is overtime labor. Regular wages for workers are generally considered to be fixed costs, as while a company’s management can reduce the number of workers and paid work hours, it will always need a workforce of some size to function. Overtime payments are often considered to be variable costs, as the number of overtime hours that a company pays its workers will generally rise with increased production and drop with reduced production. When wages are paid based on conditions of productivity allowing for overtime, the cost has both fixed and variable components and is considered to be a semi-variable cost.


   Real-World Example of Operating Costs  

Below is the income statement for Apple Inc. (AAPL) for the year ending Sept. 25, 2021, according to its annual 10-K report:



Apple reported total revenue or net sales of $365.8 billion for the 12-month period.The total cost of sales (or cost of goods sold) was $213 billion, while total operating expenses were $43.9 billion.We calculate operating costs as $213 billion + $43.9 billion.Operating costs (cost of sales + operating expenses) were $256.9 billion for the period.















Apple Inc. 2021 Consolidated Statement of Operations.



Apple's total operating costs must be examined over several quarters to get a sense of whether the company is managing its operating costs effectively. Also, investors can monitor operating expenses and cost of goods sold (or cost of sales) separately to determine whether costs are either increasing or decreasing over time.


   SG&A vs. Operating Costs  

Selling, general, and administrative expense (SG&A) is reported on the income statement as the sum of all direct and indirect selling expenses and all general and administrative expenses (G&A) of a company. It includes all the costs not directly tied to making a product or performing a service—that is, SG&A includes the costs to sell and deliver products or services, in addition to the costs to manage the company.



SG&A includes nearly everything that isn't in the cost of goods sold (COGS). Operating costs include COGS plus all operating expenses, including SG&A. 


   Limitations of Operating Costs  

As with any financial metric, operating costs must be compared over multiple reporting periods to get a sense of any trend. Companies sometimes can cut costs for a particular quarter, which inflates their earnings temporarily. Investors must monitor costs to see if they're increasing or decreasing over time while also comparing those results to the performance of revenue and profit.




What Is the Total Cost Formula?
The total cost formula combines a firm's fixed and variable costs to produce a quantity of goods or services. To calculate the total cost, add the average fixed cost per unit to the average variable cost per unit. Multiply this by the total number of units to derive the total cost.The total cost formula is important because it helps management calculate the profitability of their business. It helps managers pinpoint which fixed or variable costs could be reduced to increase profit margins. It also helps managers determine the price point for their products and compare the profitability of one product line versus another.




How Do Operating Costs Affect Profit?
Operating costs that are high or increasing can reduce a company's net profit. A company's management will look for ways to stabilize or decrease operating costs while still balancing the need to manufacture goods that meet consumer demands. If operating costs become too high, management may need to increase the price of their products in order to maintain profitability. They then risk losing customers to competitors who are able to produce similar goods at a lower price point.




What Is the Difference Between Operating Costs and Startup Costs?
Operating costs are the expenses a business incurs in its normal day-to-day operations. Startup costs, on the other hand, are expenses a startup must pay as part of the process of starting its new business. Even before a business opens its doors for the first time or begins production of a new product, it will have to spend money just to get started.For example, the business may need to spend money on research and development, equipment purchases, a lease on office space, and employee wages. A startup often pays for these costs through business loans or money from private investors. This contrasts with operating costs, which are paid for through revenue generated from sales.
What Are Operating Earnings?  

Operating earnings is a corporate finance and accounting term that isolates the profits realized from a business's core operations. Specifically, it refers to the amount of profit realized from revenues after you subtract those expenses that are directly associated with running the business, such as the cost of goods sold (COGS), general and administration (G&A) expenses, selling and marketing, research and development, depreciation, and other operating costs.



Operating earnings are an important measure of corporate profitability. Because the metric excludes non-operating expenses, such as interest payments and taxes, it enables an assessment of how well the company's chief lines of business are doing.





Key Takeaways

Operating earnings is a measure of the amount of profit realized from a business's core operations.Operating earnings is a useful figure since it doesn't include taxes and other one-off items that might skew net income in a specific accounting period.A commonly used variant of operating earnings is the operating margin, a percentage figure that represents operating earnings divided by total revenue.


   Understanding Operating Earnings  

Operating earnings lie at the heart of both internal and external analysis of how a company is making money, as well as how much money it's making. The individual components of operating costs can be measured relative to total operating costs or total revenues to assist management in running a company.



Operating earnings are usually found within a company's financial statements —specifically, towards the end of the income statement. Though it gets close to the nitty-gritty, operating earnings aren't quite the famed "bottom line" that truly signals how well—or how poorly–a firm is faring. That status belongs to a company's net income, "net" indicating what remains after deducting taxes, debt repayments, interest charges, and all the other non-operating debits a business has encountered.






Operating earnings is a term that can be used interchangeably with operating income, operating profit, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT).


   Operating Earnings vs. Operating Margin  

Many variants of metrics stemming from operating earnings can also be used to compare a given company's profitability with those of its industry peers. One of the most important of these metrics is the operating margin, which is closely tracked by management and investors from one quarter to the next for an indication of the trend in profitability.



Expressed as a percentage, operating margin is calculated by dividing operating earnings by total revenues. Or, as a formula:












Operating Margin


=



Operating Earnings


Revenue








\begin{aligned} \text{Operating Margin}=\frac{\text{Operating Earnings}}{\text{Revenue}} \end{aligned}


Operating Margin=RevenueOperating Earnings​​



Management uses this measure of earnings to gauge the profitability of various business decisions over time. External lenders and investors also pay close attention to a company's operating margin because it shows the proportion of revenues that are left over to cover non-operating costs, such as paying interest on debt obligations.



Highly variable operating margins are a prime indicator of business risk. By the same token, looking at a company's past operating margins and trends over time is a good way to gauge whether a big increase in earnings is likely to last.


   Example of Operating Earnings  

Assume Gadget Co. had $10 million in revenues in a given quarter, $5 million in operating expenses, $1 million in interest expense, and $2 million in taxes. Gadget Co.'s operating earnings would be $5 million ($10 million in revenue – $5 million in operating expenses). Its operating margin is 50% ($5 million in operating earnings/$10 million in revenue).



Net income would then be derived by subtracting interest expenses and taxes and then netting out any one-time or unusual gains and losses from the operating earnings. Gadget Co.'s net income is, therefore, $2 million.


   Special Considerations  

Sometimes a company presents a non-GAAP "adjusted" operating earnings figure to account for one-off costs that management believes are not part of recurring operating expenses.






Non-GAAP earnings are an alternative accounting method that varies from the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) that U.S. firms are required to use on financial statements.



Many companies report non-GAAP earnings in addition to their earnings based on GAAP.



A prime example is expenses stemming from restructuring (a type of corporate action taken that involves significantly modifying the debt, operations, or organization of a company as a way of limiting financial harm and improving the business.) Management may add back these costs to present higher operating earnings on an adjusted basis. However, critics could point out that restructuring costs should not be classified as one-offs if they occur with some regularity.
What Is an Operating Expense?  

An operating expense is an expense that a business incurs through its normal business operations. Often abbreviated as OpEx, operating expenses include rent, equipment, inventory costs, marketing, payroll, insurance, step costs, and funds allocated for research and development.





Key Takeaways

An operating expense is an expense that a business incurs through its normal business operations. Operating expenses include rent, equipment, inventory costs, marketing, payroll, insurance, step costs, and funds allocated for research and development.The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows businesses to deduct operating expenses if the business operates to earn profits.By contrast, a non-operating expense is an expense incurred by a business that is unrelated to the business's core operations.A capital expense is a different type of expense that relates to acquiring, maintaining, or upgrading an asset.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Operating Expenses  
  Operational Activities  

Operating expenses are the costs that a company incurs while performing its normal operational activities. Operational activities are those tasks that must be undertaken from day to day to operate the business and generate revenue. Operating expenses are different from expenses relating to, for example, investing in projects and borrowing.



Operating expenses can differ according to what a company does. In fact, some activities (and expenses) might be considered operational in one industry but not so in another. It's important to understand the distinction due to the tax-deductibility of operating expenses. Some common types of operating expenses include:



RentSalaries and wagesAccounting and legal feesBank chargesSales and marketing feesOffice suppliesRepairsUtilities expensesCost of goods sold


  Managing Operating Expenses  

One of the responsibilities that management must contend with is determining how to reduce operating expenses without significantly affecting a firm's ability to compete with its competitors.



Operating expenses are necessary and unavoidable for most businesses. Some firms successfully reduce operating expenses to gain a competitive advantage and increase earnings. However, reducing operating expenses can also compromise the integrity and quality of operations. Finding the right balance can be difficult but can yield significant rewards.



An income statement tracks the income and expenses of a company over a certain period to provide an image of its profitability. Income statements typically categorize expenses into six groups: cost of goods sold; selling, general, and administrative costs; depreciation and amortization; other operating expenses; interest expenses; and income taxes.



All these expenses can be considered operating expenses, but when determining operating income using an income statement, interest expenses and income taxes are excluded.


  Fixed and Variable Costs  

Operating expenses can be fixed or variable. A fixed cost is set for a fixed period of time; it doesn't change. It typically relates to recurring expenses such as rent, interest payments, insurance payments, and bank fees. It isn't affected by the production levels of goods and services.



A variable cost can change, depending on the production and sales levels of products or services.



A company can better manage its operating expenses when its managers understand the difference between its fixed and variable costs.


   Operating vs. Non-Operating Expenses  

A non-operating expense is an expense incurred by a business that is unrelated to the business's core operations. The most common types of non-operating expenses are interest charges or other costs of borrowing and losses on the disposal of assets. Accountants sometimes remove non-operating expenses to examine the performance of the business, ignoring the effects of financing and other irrelevant issues.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows businesses to deduct operating expenses if the business operates to earn profits. However, the IRS and most accounting principles distinguish between operating expenses and capital expenditures.


   Example  

Here's a look at a simple income statement that shows the operating expenses for a company.













Source: Harvard Business School Online


   OpEx vs. CapEx  

Abbreviated as CapEx, capital expenditures are purchases that a business makes as an investment. Capital expenditures include costs related to acquiring, maintaining, or upgrading tangible and intangible assets. Tangible business assets include real estate, factory equipment, computers, office furniture, and other physical capital assets. Intangible assets include intellectual property, copyrights, patents, and trademarks.



The IRS treats capital expenses differently than it treats operating expenses. According to the IRS, operating expenses must be ordinary (common and accepted in the business trade) and necessary (helpful and appropriate in the business trade). In general, businesses are allowed to write off operating expenses for the year in which the expenses were incurred. Alternatively, businesses must capitalize capital expenses/costs.



For example, if a business spends $100,000 on payroll, it can write off the entirety of that expense the year it is incurred, but if a business spends $100,000 buying a large piece of factory equipment or a vehicle, it must capitalize the expense or write it off over time. The IRS has guidelines related to how businesses must capitalize assets, and there are different classes for different types of assets.




What Is a Non-Operating Expense?
A non-operating expense is a cost that is unrelated to the business's core operations. The most common types of non-operating expenses are interest charges or other costs of borrowing and losses on the disposal of assets. Accountants sometimes remove non-operating expenses to examine the performance of the business, ignoring the effects of financing and other irrelevant issues.




What Are Capital Expenses?
CapEx includes costs related to acquiring or upgrading capital assets such as property, plant, and equipment. These expenses, unlike operating expenses, can be capitalized for tax purposes. The IRS has guidelines related to how businesses must capitalize assets, and there are different classes for different types of assets.




What Is the Tax Treatment for Operating Expenses?
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows businesses to deduct operating expenses if the business operates to earn profits. According to the IRS, operating expenses must be ordinary (common and accepted in the business trade) and necessary (helpful and appropriate in the business trade). In general, businesses are allowed to write off operating expenses for the year in which the expenses were incurred.


   The Bottom Line  

Operating expenses are the expenses that arise from daily, core operational activities conducted by a company. They are the costs involved in running a business to generate income. Operating expenses can be fixed or variable. Typically, they're tax deductible as long as a company operates to earn a profit, expenses are commonly known, and necessary.
What Is Operating Expense Ratio (OER)?  

In real estate, the operating expense ratio (OER) is a measurement of the cost to operate a piece of property, compared to the income brought in by the property. It is calculated by dividing a property's operating expense (minus depreciation) by its gross operating income.



OER is used for comparing the expenses of similar properties. An investor should look for red flags, such as higher maintenance expenses, operating income, or utilities that may deter him from purchasing a specific property.



The ideal OER is between 60% and 80% (although the lower it is, the better).





Key Takeaways

In real estate, the operating expense ratio (OER) is a measurement of the cost to operate a piece of property, compared to the income brought in by the property.The operating expense ratio (OER) is calculated by dividing all operating expenses less depreciation by operating income.A lower operating expense ratio (OER) is more desirable for investors because it means that expenses are minimized relative to revenue.


   Understanding Operating Expense Ratio (OER)  
  Formula for Operating Expense Ratio (OER)  

﻿




O


E


R


=




Total operating expenses


−


depreciation




Gross revenue





OER = \frac{\text{Total operating expenses} - \text{depreciation}}{\text{Gross revenue}}


OER=Gross revenueTotal operating expenses−depreciation​﻿












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi



In order to calculate the OER for a property, you need to know the operating expenses. These include all fees and costs incurred as the normal costs of doing business. You will also need to calculate the property's depreciation expense, which will vary by the particular accounting method employed.



Calculating OERs over a number of years may help an investor notice a property’s trends in operating expenses. If a property’s costs increase annually at a greater rate than income, the OER increases annually as well. Therefore, the investor may lose more money the longer they hold the property.



When owning an apartment building, an investor should figure in vacancies by using effective rental income, or potential rental income minus vacancy and credit losses, rather than potential rental income. Because managing vacancies are included in efficient property management, including vacancies in an OER gives a more accurate picture of operating expenses and shows where improvements may be made. For example, a poorly managed property will most likely have higher vacancy rates, which will be reflected in the OER.



Property management fees, utilities, trash removal, maintenance, insurance, repairs, property taxes, and other costs are included in OERs. Additional operating expenses that investors should figure into the OER include property management fees, landscaping, attorney fees, landlord’s insurance, and basic property insurance. These costs help run the property on a daily basis. For this reason, loan payments, capital improvements, and personal property are excluded from operating expenses.



A lower OER typically means the property is being managed efficiently and is more profitable for investors, and that less of the property’s income is covering operational and maintenance costs. If the business is scalable, the owner may increase the rent on each unit without greatly increasing operating expenses. In addition, the OER can show where potential issues may occur, such as utility bills increasing substantially, so investors can solve problems more quickly and protect their profit levels.


   Example of Operating Expense Ratio (OER)  

Take a hypothetical example, where Investor A owns a multi-family apartment building and brings in $65,000 per month in rent. The investor also pays $50,000 for operating expenses including his monthly mortgage payments, taxes, utilities, and so on. The property also is expected to depreciate by $85,000 this year.



Therefore, the annual OER can be calculated as:



﻿






[


(


$


5


0


,


0


0


0


×


1


2


)


−


8


5


,


0


0


0


]




(


6


5


,


0


0


0


×


1


2


)




=


6


6


%



\frac{[(\$50,000 \times 12) - 85,000]} {(65,000 \times 12)} = 66\%


(65,000×12)[($50,000×12)−85,000]​=66%﻿



This means that operating expenses consume approximately two-thirds of revenues generated by this property.


   Operating Expense Ratio (OER) vs. Capitalization Rate  

The capitalization rate is used in the world of commercial real estate to indicate the rate of return that is expected to be generated on a real estate investment property. Often referred to as the "cap rate," this measurement is computed based on the net income which the property is expected to generate. It is used to estimate the investor's potential return on investment in the real estate market. 



The cap rate simply represents the yield of a property over a one-year time horizon (assuming the property is purchased on cash and not on loan). It is defined by the formula:



﻿




Cap rate


=


net operating income


÷


current market value



\text{Cap rate} = \text{net operating income} \div \text{current market value}


Cap rate=net operating income÷current market value﻿ 



While the cap rate is similar to OER in terms of measuring the profitability of an investment property, it differs from the OER in that it uses gross revenue rather than net income and places that in the denominator. OER also does not take into account the market value of a property.


   Limitations of the Operating Expense Ration  

There are two drawbacks to the OER for real estate investors. First, because it does not include the market value of a property, it does not inform an investor about the relative value of a property at purchase or sale. It only speaks to the efficiency of ongoing operations. Thus, the OER should be used in conjunction with something like the capitalization rate when evaluating a property investment.



Second, because depreciation can be calculated in several different ways, the OER can be gamed by using a more favorable method of accounting for depreciation.
What Is Operating Income?  

Operating income is an accounting figure that measures the amount of profit realized from a business's operations after deducting operating expenses such as wages, depreciation, and cost of goods sold (COGS).



Operating income—also called income from operations—takes a company's gross income, which is equivalent to total revenue minus COGS, and subtracts all operating expenses. A business's operating expenses are costs incurred from normal operating activities and include items such as office supplies and utilities.





Key Takeaways

Operating income reports the amount of profit realized from a business's ongoing operations.Operating income is calculated by subtracting operating expenses from a company's gross profit.Operating expenses are naturally recurring costs incurred to run a business such as administrative, selling, or general expenses.Operating income is the same as EBIT as both measurements reflect profit prior to non-operating expenses such as interest or taxes.On the other hand, operating income and net income differ because net income reflects these additional costs.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Operating Income  

Operating income is a measurement that shows how much of a company's revenue will eventually become profits considering its business operations. It's a measurement of what money a company makes only looking at the strictly operational aspect of its company.



Operating income factors in two major types of expenses: cost of goods sold and operating expenses. Cost of goods sold are the expenses directly related to the manufacturing of a good and often include labor, raw materials, and overhead allocated to items sold. Operating expenses include the selling, administrative, and general expenses prior to taxes and interest expenses.



Analyzing operating income is helpful to investors because it doesn't include taxes and other one-off items that might skew profit or net income. A company that's generating an increasing amount of operating income is seen as favorable because it means that the company's management is generating more revenue while controlling expenses, production costs, and overhead.






Because operating income deducts less expenses than net income, it is usually a higher calculated amount.


   Operating Income Formulas and Calculations  

Operating income can be calculated in three different ways. One approach is top-down, one approach is a bottom-up approach, and one leverages cost accounting classifications.


  Operating Income Formula: Top-Down Approach  

The formula for operating income using the top-down approach is:


















Operating Income


=


GP


−


OE


−


D


−


A
















where:
















GP


=


Gross profit
















OE


=


Operating expenses
















D


=


Depreciation
















A


=


Amortization







\begin{aligned}&\text{Operating Income} = \text{GP} - \text{OE} - \text{D} - \text{A} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{GP} = \text{Gross profit} \\&\text{OE} = \text{Operating expenses} \\&\text{D} = \text{Depreciation} \\&\text{A} = \text{Amortization} \\\end{aligned}


​Operating Income=GP−OE−D−Awhere:GP=Gross profitOE=Operating expensesD=DepreciationA=Amortization​



Gross profit is the net profit earned after the cost of goods sold is subtracted from net revenue. Operating expenses are the selling, administrative, and general expenses necessary to operate a business, though this does not include interest or taxes. Because operating expenses do not incorporate allocated costs, depreciation and amortization must also be subtracted.


  Operating Income Formula: Bottom-Up Approach  

Instead of starting with revenue, you can also calculate operating income if you know net income. Because net income is calculated by subtracting a few items from operating income, you can add them back in to arrive at operating income:


















Operating Income


=


NI


+


IE


+


TE
















where:
















NI


=


Net income
















IE


=


Interest expense
















TE


=


Tax expense







\begin{aligned}&\text{Operating Income} = \text{NI} + \text{IE} + \text{TE} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{NI} = \text{Net income} \\&\text{IE} = \text{Interest expense} \\&\text{TE} = \text{Tax expense} \\\end{aligned}


​Operating Income=NI+IE+TEwhere:NI=Net incomeIE=Interest expenseTE=Tax expense​



In this formula, you must have a fully calculated income statement as net income is the bottom and last component of the financial statements. In this case, the company may already be reporting operating income towards the bottom of the report.


  Operating Income Formula: Cost Accounting Approach  

Though direct costs and indirect costs are not widely used in financial accounting, a company may classify these types of expenses for internal use. If a company does so, it can find operating income by simply subtracting all of these costs from net revenue (as taxes and interest are often not classified as either):


















Operating Income


=


NR


−


DC


−


IC
















where:
















NR


=


Net revenue
















DC


=


Direct costs
















IC


=


Indirect costs







\begin{aligned}&\text{Operating Income} = \text{NR} - \text{DC} - \text{IC} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{NR} = \text{Net revenue} \\&\text{DC} = \text{Direct costs} \\&\text{IC} = \text{Indirect costs} \\\end{aligned}


​Operating Income=NR−DC−ICwhere:NR=Net revenueDC=Direct costsIC=Indirect costs​



In this formula, net revenue is used in case there have been product returns or other deductions to make to gross revenue.






Operating income is the amount of income a company generates from its core operations, meaning it excludes any income and expenses not directly tied to the core business.


   Operating Income vs. Other Financial Calculations  
  Operating Income vs. Revenue  

When looking at a company's financial statements, revenue is often the highest level of financial reporting. Gross revenue is the total amount of revenue earned by a company for a given period, while net revenue is the total amount of revenue less any discounts, returns, or deductions to make from the total that was sold.



While revenue does not incorporate any expenses, operating income does. In fact, it incorporates almost every expense of a company. Revenue may demonstrate how successful a product is selling, but operating income is more useful in demonstrating how successful a company is at being efficient with how it spends money to incur that revenue.


  Operating Income vs. Net Income  

It's important to note that operating income is different than net income. Operating income includes expenses such as costs of goods sold and operating expenses. However, operating income does not include items such as other income, non-operating income, and non-operating expenses. Instead, those figures are included in the net income calculation.



In almost all cases, operating income will be higher than net income because net income often deducts more expenses than operating income. For this reason, net income is often the last line reported on an income statement, while operating income is usually found a few lines above it.


  Operating Income vs. EBIT and EBITDA  

Operating income is similar to a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT); it is also referred to as the operating profit or recurring profit. Both measurements calculate the amount of money a company earned less a few noncontrollable costs. Technically, EBIT may include other operating expenses outside of interest and taxes but for most companies, these two calculations will be the same.



EBITDA, on the other hand, will differ from operating income as operating income deducts depreciation and amortization expense. EBITDA is calculated without incorporating either.






If a company does not have interest expenses, tax expenses, or other non-operational costs, it is possible for a company's operating income to be the same as its net income.


   Example of Operating Income  

The image below represents Apple Inc's income statement for the three months ending June 25, 2022. It also represents the nine month period for the company through the end of Q3.















Apple, Inc. - Q3 2022 Income Statement.



On its income statement, Apple reported $82.959 billion of product and service revenue, up very slightly from the prior year. However, looking further down its income statement, the company's operating income for the three-month period was $23.076 billion, less than the $24.126 billion from the year before.



The reason for this is the increase in expenses. First, the company's cost of goods sold increased from last year to this year. Second, the company's operating expenses also increased. Both "Research and Development" as well as "Selling, General, and Administrative" expenses increased. The company spent $11.129 billion on operating expenses the year prior; now, it had reported operating expenses of almost $13 billion.



Last, the company is reporting a very material increase in provision for income taxes as Apple, Inc. estimated an additional $1 billion of expenses from what had been incurred one year ago. Because this expense is not directly tied to operational functions of the company, this increase has no bearing on operational income (though it does factor into net income).




Is Operating Income the Same As Profits?
Not exactly. Operating income is what is left over after a company subtracts the cost of goods sold (COGS) and other operating expenses from the sales revenues it receives. However, it does not take into consideration taxes, interest or financing charges.




Can a Company Have a High Operating Income But Lose Money?
While a good operating income is often indicative of profitability, there may be cases when a company earns money from operations but must spend more on interest and taxes. This could be due to a one-time charge, poor financial decisions made by the company, or an increasing interest rate environment that impacts outstanding debts. Alternatively, a company may earn a great deal of interest income, which would not show up as operating income.




What Is Non-Operating Income?
In contrast to operating income, non-operating income is the portion of an organization's income that is derived from activities not related to its core business operations. It can include items such as dividend income, interest, gains or losses from investments, as well as those incurred in foreign exchange and asset write-downs.




Where Would I Find a Company's Operating Income?
Operating income is recorded on the income statement, and can be found toward the bottom of the statement as its own line item. It should appear next to non-operating income, helping investors to distinguish between the two and recognize which income came from what sources.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies may be more interested in knowing their operating income instead of their net income as operating income only incorporates the costs of directly operating the company. Operating income can be calculated several different ways, but it is always found towards the bottom of a company's income statement. Operating income is generally defined as the amount of money left over to pay for financial costs such as interest or taxes.
What Is Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA)?  

Operating income before depreciation and amortization (OIBDA) is a measure of financial performance used by companies to show profitability in their core business activities. OIBDA excludes the effects of capital spending on fixed assets, such as equipment, and the interest expense of carrying debt.



Sometimes OIBDA may not include changes in accounting principles that are not indicative of core operating results, income from discontinued operations, and the earnings and losses of subsidiaries.





Key Takeaways

Operating income before depreciation and amortization (OIBDA) shows a company's profitability in its core business activities.OIBDA excludes the effects of capital spending on fixed assets, such as equipment.OIBDA also excludes the interest expense or cost of debt and tax expenses.Analyzing a company's OIBDA shows how well a company is generating revenue while managing its production and operating expenses.


   Understanding Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA)  

Operating income before depreciation and amortization (OIBDA) attempts to show how much income a company is earning for its core business. By analyzing a company's OIBDA, we can see how well a company generates revenue from sales while managing its production and operating expenses.



OIBDA is a non-GAAP financial measure, meaning it's not a regulatory requirement when companies report their financial statements. Regulatory agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), mandate that companies report their financial performance in a standardized format to help investors and creditors compare companies more effectively.



However, OIBDA is still a useful metric since it can help investors understand how well a company generates income from its core production and manufacturing business. Below are the components that are often used in calculating OIBDA.


  Operating Income  

Operating income is the income that a company earns from its core business. Operating income is the result of subtracting operating expenses from gross profit.



Gross profit is a company's revenue minus its cost of goods sold (COGS). Cost of goods sold represents the cost of inventory and supplies needed to produce the goods being sold that generate revenue.



While gross profit shows how much profit a company earns from its production line, operating income is more inclusive. Operating income includes operating expenses for running the company in addition to COGS.


  Depreciation and Amortization  

When companies purchase an asset such as a piece of machinery, it can be quite expensive. The cost of the asset can be used to reduce a company's taxable income. In other words, net income is reduced by the cost of the asset for tax purposes, thus lowering the taxes paid on the company's profit.



Instead of reporting the total cost of the asset in the year that it was purchased, companies are allowed to spread the cost of that asset each year over the estimated useful life of the asset. This process of expensing the asset over the years is called depreciation and is helpful since it allows companies to earn profit from the asset while expensing only a portion of it each year.



Amortization is the same practice as depreciation except that amortization is used for intangible assets such as a patent, while depreciation is used for tangible assets such as machinery. When calculating OIBDA, depreciation and amortization are added back into operating income since they are typically subtracted from gross profit to arrive at operating income.


  Interest and Taxes  

Interest and taxes are expense line items found on the income statement. Many companies that purchase fixed assets, such as a building, must borrow the money to finance the purchase.



As a result, the company must pay an interest expense each accounting period, which represents the interest rate applied to the debt by the lender. Taxes are also listed as a separate line item on the income statement showing the tax expense that the company paid based on the applicable tax rate and profit generated.



Interest and taxes are usually listed after operating income, meaning they are not included in operating expenses. As a result, these two expenses would not normally be included in the OIBDA calculation.



However, some companies report interest and tax expenses higher on the income statement and are reflected in operating income and, therefore, must be added back into operating income to arrive at OIBDA.


   Formula and Calculation of OIBDA  

The formula for calculating operating income before depreciation and amortization (OIBDA) is shown below:


















OIBDA


=


OI 


+


 D 


+


 A 


+


 Tax 


+


 Interest
















where:
















OI


=


Operating Income
















D


=


Depreciation
















A


=


Amoritization







\begin{aligned}&\text{OIBDA}=\text{OI}\ +\ \text{D}\ +\ \text{A}\ +\ \text{Tax}\ +\ \text{Interest}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{OI}=\text{Operating Income}\\&\text{D}=\text{Depreciation}\\&\text{A}=\text{Amoritization}\end{aligned}


​OIBDA=OI + D + A + Tax + Interestwhere:OI=Operating IncomeD=DepreciationA=Amoritization​



Locate operating income on the income statement.Locate an expense line item for depreciation and amortization and add that figure to operating income.If the deduction for interest and taxes has been included in operating income, they must be added back into operating income. If the expenses are listed after operating income, they should be excluded from the OIBDA calculation.



Please note that some companies may embed depreciation and amortization expense within their COGS or selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A). In other words, there may not be a separate line item for depreciation and amortization. In this case, the company's cash flow statement must be used to find the line item. When calculating cash flow, companies must add non-cash expenses, such as D&A, to net income to arrive at the cash flow for the period.


   OIBDA vs. EBITDA  

OIBDA and EBITDA or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization are similar but use different income numbers as their starting points.



The OIBDA calculation begins with operating income, while EBITDA begins with net income, which represents the profit for the accounting period. Unlike EBITDA, OIBDA does not incorporate non-operating income or one-time charges. One-time items ultimately add or deduct from a company's profit or earnings but are not included in OIBDA.



This can be seen as an advantage for comparison purposes since non-operating income usually doesn't reoccur year after year. Its separation from operating income ensures that the calculation only reflects the income earned from core operations.


   Example of OIBDA  

Below is the income statement for Walmart Inc. for the company's fiscal year ending Jan. 31, 2021, via the company's 10-K report issued on March 19, 2021.


  OIBDA for 2021  

Operating income was $22.548 billion for 2021.Interest and provision for income taxes are listed below operating income, meaning they are not reflected in operating income and can be excluded from the OIBDA calculation.However, depreciation and amortization are not listed as a sole line item on the income statement, which means they're embedded in the Costs and Expenses section.













As a result, we must refer to Walmart's cash flow statement for the same period, which is shown below:



Depreciation and amortization are listed under Cash Flow from Operating Activities totaling $11.152 billion for 2021.Walmart's OIBDA for 2021 was $33.70 billion, calculated as $22.548 + $11.152 billion.












  OIBDA for 2020 and 2019  

Walmart's OIBDA can also be calculated for 2020 and 2019 to compare with 2021's OIBDA to get a better sense of whether 2021 was a good year or not.



2020 OIBDA was $31.55 billion; since 2020 operating revenue was $20.568, and D&A was $10.987 ($20.568 +$10.987).2019 OIBDA was $32.635 billion; since 2019 operating revenue was $21.957, and D&A was $10.678 ($21.957 + $10.678).



Walmart's 2021 OIBDA of $33.70 billion was more than $2 billion higher than 2020. However, 2021's OIBDA was approximately $1 billion higher than 2019.



We can see that Walmart is increasing its income from its core business operations since OIBDA in 2021 was much better than 2020 and also beat 2019's OIBDA.



However, 2021's OIBDA was nearly $1 billion higher than 2019, in part, due to a higher depreciation expense for 2021 of $11.152 billion versus $10.678. Perhaps the company purchased new assets in 2021, which led to a higher depreciation expense.



When comparing OIBDA for different companies, it's important to consider whether the two companies are in the same industry and have a similar need for fixed assets. If one company doesn't have many fixed assets while the other does, the depreciation expenses and OIBDA for the two companies might be quite different.
What Is an Operating Lease?  

An operating lease is a contract that allows for an asset's use but does not convey ownership rights of the asset. These leases allow businesses to use the asset without incurring the high expenses involved in purchasing it.



The business that leases the asset is called the lessee, and the business that loans it under a lease is called the lessor. The responsibilities of each party in the agreement are spelled out in the lease contract and documents, but generally, the lessee must maintain the asset to ensure it remains in operational condition, less any normal wear and tear.





Key Takeaways

An operating lease is a contract that permits the use of an asset without transferring the ownership rights of said asset.A finance lease is a contract that permits the use of an asset and transfers ownership after the lease period is complete, and the lessor meets all other contract obligations.GAAP rules govern accounting for operating leases.All leases 12 months and longer must be recognized on the balance sheet.Leases shorter than 12 months can be recognized as expenses using the straight-line method.


   How Operating Leases Work  

Historically, operating leases enabled American firms to keep billions of dollars of assets and liabilities from being recorded on their balance sheets, thereby keeping their debt-to-equity ratios low. However, this changed in 2016 with the release of Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), and amendments in the few years following.



Operating leases are assets rented by a business where ownership of the asset is not transferred when the rental period is complete. Typically, assets rented under operating leases include real estate, aircraft, and equipment with long, useful life spans—such as vehicles, office equipment, or industry-specific machinery.



Essentially, an operating lease is a contract for a company to use an asset and return it in a similar condition to the lessor. This agreement is beneficial for the lessee, particularly when it has expensive equipment or other assets that need to be replaced regularly.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an Operating Lease  



Advantages

No ownership
Renting may be cheaper
Short-term



Disadvantage

No equity
Financing costs
Might pay more than market value
Continuous terms renegotiation





  Advantages Explained  

No ownership: Not owning an asset can be beneficial because you won't have to pay for repairs or maintenance.Renting may be cheaper: Renting is generally much more affordable than purchasing, benefitting smaller or newer businesses that don't yet have the financial strength to collect expensive assets.Short-term: You'll only need to lease the asset for as long as you need it, reducing the overall costs of purchasing, maintaining, and selling it if you no longer need it.


  Disadvantages Explained  

No equity: When you lease, you don't gain any equityFinancing costs: You might incur financing costs with a lease, such as interestMight pay more than market value: Depending on how long an asset is leased, the total cost could be more than the market value at the time the lease originated.Continuous terms renegotiation: Many leases are short-term. This means the lessor and lessee will renegotiate terms every time the lease expires. This provides the lessor an opportunity to raise rates or fees.


   Example of an Operating Lease  

A restaurant needs power to ensure it can operate during outages and not have food spoil when refrigeration systems are offline. Power keeps a restaurant from losing business and costly supplies.



A restaurant owner should ensure they have a generator for this reason, but they might need a much bigger and more expensive one. They'll need to power freezers, refrigerators, ovens, heating lamps, lights, air conditioning, water heaters, computer systems, and more. Large generators can cost tens of thousands of dollars, so the owner might choose to lease one.






The owner would make rental payments to an equipment rental service and account for it as an asset and a liability on their balance sheet because they'll likely need it for more than one year.


   Accounting for an Operating Lease  

Operating lease accounting changed in 2016 when the Federal Accounting Standards Board released ASC Topic 842, Leases. The new standard provided guidance when accounting for leases, where the lease and the corresponding asset value would be required to be reported on the balance sheet. However, leases for less than 12 months can be recognized as an expense using the straight-line basis method.



When a lease of more than 12 months is initiated, the lessee must account for it as a lease liability and an asset right-of-use on the balance sheet. The intent behind the change is to reduce the ability of organizations to manipulate the balance sheet and create a more faithful representation of a business's rights and obligations.



This new standard does not apply to:



Intangible asset leasingExploration for or use of nonregenerative resourcesBiological assets leasesInventory leasesAssets under construction


   Operating Lease vs. Finance Lease  

Operating and finance leases are similar for accounting purposes. They are both treated as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. They are recorded on the company's balance sheet; as a result, they can affect a company's financial ratios, such as debt-to-equity, return-on-assets, or solvency if companies use a significant amount of leased assets. However, there are several differences.



Operating lease characteristics include:



Ownership: Retained by the lessor during and after the lease term.Bargain purchase options: Operating leases cannot contain a bargain purchase option.Terms: Less than 75% of the asset’s estimated economic life.Present value: The PV of lease payments is less than 90% of the asset's fair market value.Risks/benefits: Right to use only. Risks/benefits remain with the lessor.



Finance lease characteristics include:



Ownership: Transfers to the lessee at the end of the lease term.Bargain purchase options: Enables the lessee to buy an asset at less than fair market value.Terms: Equals or exceeds 75% of the asset's estimated useful life.Present value: PV of lease payments equals or exceeds 90% of the asset's original cost.Risks/benefits: All risk is transferred to the lessee.




What Is the Meaning of Operating Lease?
An operating lease is like renting, a business can lease assets it needs to operate.




What Is the Difference Between an Operating Lease and a Finance Lease?
A finance lease transfers the asset and any risk or return to the lessee. This means that ownership is transferred in a financial lease to the entity that leases the asset. In an operating lease, the ownership remains with the lessor, the entity that leased the asset to the lessee.




What Are Operating Leases Used for?
Operating leases allow companies greater flexibility to upgrade assets, like equipment, which reduces the risk of obsolescence. There is no ownership risk and payments are considered to be operating expenses and tax-deductible. Finally, the risks and benefits remain with the lessor as the lessee is only liable for the maintenance costs.


   The Bottom Line  

Operating leases are leases a business might use to rent assets rather than buy them outright. Many small and medium-sized businesses cannot afford some of the expensive assets they need to operate, so it makes sense for them—and it's cheaper—to rent them.



Businesses must account for operating leases as assets and liabilities for assets leased for more than 12 months. This standard makes their balance sheet a more realistic representation of the company's worth and obligations regarding leases.
What Is Operating Leverage?  

Operating leverage is a cost-accounting formula that measures the degree to which a firm or project can increase operating income by increasing revenue. A business that generates sales with a high gross margin and low variable costs has high operating leverage.





Key Takeaways

Operating leverage is used to calculate a company’s break-even point and help set appropriate selling prices to cover all costs and generate a profit. Companies with high operating leverage must cover a larger amount of fixed costs each month regardless of whether they sell any units of product.Low-operating-leverage companies may have high costs that vary directly with their sales but have lower fixed costs to cover each month.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Operating Leverage  

The higher the degree of operating leverage, the greater the potential danger from forecasting risk, in which a relatively small error in forecasting sales can be magnified into large errors in cash flow projections.


  The Operating Leverage Formula Is:  






Degree of operating leverage


=



Contribution margin


Profit




\text{Degree of operating leverage} = \frac{\text{Contribution margin}}{\text{Profit}}


Degree of operating leverage=ProfitContribution margin​
This can be restated as: 















Degree of operating leverage


=




Q


∗


C


M




Q


∗


C


M


−


Fixed operating costs


















where:
















Q


=


unit quantity
















C


M


=


contribution margin (price - variable cost per unit)







\begin{aligned} &\text{Degree of operating leverage} = \frac{Q*CM}{Q*CM - \text{Fixed operating costs}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &Q = \text{unit quantity}\\ &CM = \text{contribution margin (price - variable cost per unit)}\\ \end{aligned}


​Degree of operating leverage=Q∗CM−Fixed operating costsQ∗CM​where:Q=unit quantityCM=contribution margin (price - variable cost per unit)​
The operating leverage formula is used to calculate a company’s break-even point and help set appropriate selling prices to cover all costs and generate a profit. The formula can reveal how well a company is using its fixed-cost items, such as its warehouse and machinery, and equipment, to generate profits. The more profit a company can squeeze out of the same amount of fixed assets, the higher its operating leverage.
One conclusion companies can learn from examining operating leverage is that firms that minimize fixed costs can increase their profits without making any changes to the selling price, contribution margin, or the number of units they sell.


   Example  

For example, Company A sells 500,000 products for a unit price of $6 each. The company’s fixed costs are $800,000. It costs $0.05 in variable costs per unit to make each product.



Calculate company A’s degree of operating leverage as follows:




















500


,


000


∗



(


$


6.00


−


$


0.05


)





500


,


000


∗



(


$


6.00


−


$


0.05


)



−


$


800


,


000


















=




$


2


,


975


,


000




$


2


,


175


,


000


















=


1.37


 or 


137


%


.







\begin{aligned} &\frac{500,000*\left(\$6.00 - \$0.05 \right )}{500,000*\left(\$6.00 - \$0.05 \right )-\$800,000}\\ &=\frac{\$2,975,000}{\$2,175,000}\\ &=1.37 \text{ or } 137\%. \end{aligned}


​500,000∗($6.00−$0.05)−$800,000500,000∗($6.00−$0.05)​=$2,175,000$2,975,000​=1.37 or 137%.​



A 10% revenue increase should result in a 13.7% increase in operating income (10% x 1.37 = 13.7%).


   High and Low Operating Leverage  

It is important to compare operating leverage between companies in the same industry, as some industries have higher fixed costs than others. The concept of a high or low ratio is then more clearly defined.



Most of a company’s costs are fixed costs that recur each month, such as rent, regardless of sales volume. As long as a business earns a substantial profit on each sale and sustains adequate sales volume, fixed costs are covered and profits are earned.



Other company costs are variable costs that are only incurred when sales occur. This includes labor to assemble products and the cost of raw materials used to make products. Some companies earn less profit on each sale but can have a lower sales volume and still generate enough to cover fixed costs.



For example, a software business has greater fixed costs in developers’ salaries and lower variable costs in software sales. As such, the business has high operating leverage. In contrast, a computer consulting firm charges its clients hourly and doesn't need expensive office space because its consultants work in clients' offices. This results in variable consultant wages and low fixed operating costs. The business thus has low operating leverage.



Most of Microsoft’s costs are fixed, such as expenses for upfront development and marketing. With each dollar in sales earned beyond the break-even point, the company makes a profit, but Microsoft has high operating leverage.



Conversely, Walmart retail stores have low fixed costs and large variable costs, especially for merchandise. Because Walmart sells a huge volume of items and pays upfront for each unit it sells, its cost of goods sold increases as sales increase. Because of this, Walmart stores have low operating leverage.




What Does Operating Leverage Tell You?
The operating leverage formula is used to calculate a company’s break-even point and help set appropriate selling prices to cover all costs and generate a profit. This can reveal how well a company is using its fixed-cost items, such as its warehouse and machinery and equipment, to generate profits. The more profit a company can squeeze out of the same amount of fixed assets, the higher its operating leverage.One conclusion companies can learn from examining operating leverage is that firms that minimize fixed costs can increase their profits without making any changes to the selling price, contribution margin, or the number of units they sell.




What Is the Degree of Operating Leverage (DOL)?
The degree of operating leverage (DOL) is a multiple that measures how much the operating income of a company will change in response to a change in sales. Companies with a large proportion of fixed costs (or costs that don't change with production) to variable costs (costs that change with production volume) have higher levels of operating leverage. The DOL ratio assists analysts in determining the impact of any change in sales on company earnings or profit.




What Are Examples of High and Low Operating Leverage?
Companies with high fixed costs tend to have high operating leverage, such as those with a great deal of research & development and marketing. With each dollar in sales earned beyond the break-even point, the company makes a profit. Conversely, retail stores tend to have low fixed costs and large variable costs, especially for merchandise. Because retailers sell a large volume of items and pay upfront for each unit sold, COGS increases as sales increase. Because of this, such stores often have low operating leverage.
What Is an Operating Loss (OL)?  

An operating loss occurs when a company's operating expenses exceed gross profits (or revenues in the case of a service-oriented company). A company's operating profit is its profit before interest and taxes. Interest and taxes are not considered operating expenses in the way that cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses are. Often companies generate enough revenue to cover the operating expenses and make an operating profit.



An operating loss does not consider the effects of interest income, interest expense, extraordinary gains or losses, or income or losses from equity investments or taxes. These items are "below the line," meaning they are added or subtracted after the operating loss (or income, if positive) to arrive at net income.



If there is an operating loss, there is usually a net income loss unless an extraordinary gain (e.g., sale of an asset) was recorded during the accounting period.





Key Takeaways:

If a company's operating expenses exceed their gross profits, it will show an operating loss on the financial statements.An operating loss excludes the effect of interest income, interest expense, extraordinary gains or losses, or income or losses from equity investments or taxes.An operating loss reflects unprofitable operations, and changes may be required to decrease costs or increase revenues.A company might also experience an operating loss if it is re-investing in itself to expand business in the future.


   Understanding Operating Losses  

An operating loss indicates that a company's core operations are not profitable and that changes need to be made to increase revenues, decrease costs, or both. The immediate solution is typically to cut back on expenses, as this is within the control of company management. Layoffs, office or plant closings, or reductions in marketing spending are ways to reduce expenses. An operating loss is expected for start-up companies that mostly incur high expenses (with little or no revenues) as they attempt to grow quickly.



In most other situations, if sustained, an operating loss is a sign of deteriorating fundamentals of a company's products or services. However, that's not necessarily the case if a company is spending more money in the short-term to hire additional employees, conduct a fresh sales and marketing campaign, or lease extra office space in anticipation of expanded future business. In such a scenario, a company may be hit with a few or several quarters of operating losses until the bump-up of the expenditures declines and the benefits of the added spending manifest in the top line.


   Real World Example of Operating Loss  

For a company that manufactures products, gross profit is sales less the cost of goods sold (COGS). In 2009, the year that the Great Recession took hold, Huntsman Corporation recorded an operating loss of over $71 million. That year gross profit was $1,068 million, while operating expenses composed of selling, general, and administration (SG&A), research and development (R&D), restructuring, impairment, and plant closing costs totaled $1,139 million, leaving the chemical maker with an operating loss. The last expense line item was $152 million in charges. Such expenses, in most cases, are considered non-recurring, which means that a normalized operating income/loss number would exclude the charge. Instead of the operating loss, an "adjusted" result would be an operating profit of $81 million.
What Is Operating Margin?  

The operating margin measures how much profit a company makes on a dollar of sales after paying for variable costs of production, such as wages and raw materials, but before paying interest or tax. It is calculated by dividing a company’s operating income by its net sales. Higher ratios are generally better, illustrating the company is efficient in its operations and is good at turning sales into profits. 





Key Takeaways

The operating margin represents how efficiently a company is able to generate profit through its core operations.It is expressed on a per-sale basis after accounting for variable costs but before paying any interest or taxes (EBIT).Higher margins are considered better than lower margins, and can be compared between similar competitors but not across different industries.To calculate the operating margin, divide operating income (earnings) by sales (revenues).












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the Operating Margin  

A company’s operating margin, sometimes referred to as return on sales (ROS), is a good indicator of how well it is being managed and how efficient it is at generating profits from sales. It shows the proportion of revenues that are available to cover non-operating costs, such as paying interest, which is why investors and lenders pay close attention to it.



Highly variable operating margins are a prime indicator of business risk. By the same token, looking at a company’s past operating margins is a good way to gauge whether a company's performance has been getting better. The operating margin can improve through better management controls, more efficient use of resources, improved pricing, and more effective marketing.



In its essence, the operating margin is how much profit a company makes from its core business in relation to its total revenues. This allows investors to see if a company is generating income primarily from its core operations or from other means, such as investing.


   Calculating the Operating Margin  

The formula for operating margin is:



﻿








Operating Margin


=



Operating Earnings


Revenue








\begin{aligned} \text{Operating Margin}=\frac{\text{Operating Earnings}}{\text{Revenue}} \end{aligned}


Operating Margin=RevenueOperating Earnings​​﻿﻿



When calculating operating margin, the numerator uses a firm's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). EBIT, or operating earnings, is calculated simply as revenue minus cost of goods sold (COGS) and the regular selling, general, and administrative costs of running a business, excluding interest and taxes.


  Example  

For example, if a company had revenues of $2 million, COGS of $700,000, and administrative expenses of $500,000, its operating earnings would be $2 million - ($700,000 + $500,000) = $800,000. Its operating margin would then be $800,000 / $2 million = 40%.



If the company was able to negotiate better prices with its suppliers, reducing its COGS to $500,000, then it would see an improvement in its operating margin to 50%.


   Limitations of the Operating Margin  

The operating margin should only be used to compare companies that operate in the same industry and, ideally, have similar business models and annual sales. Companies in different industries with wildly different business models have very different operating margins, so comparing them would be meaningless. It would not be an apples-to-apples comparison.



To make it easier to compare profitability between companies and industries, many analysts use a profitability ratio that eliminates the effects of financing, accounting, and tax policies: earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). For example, by adding back depreciation, the operating margins of big manufacturing firms and heavy industrial companies are more comparable.



EBITDA is sometimes used as a proxy for operating cash flow because it excludes non-cash expenses, such as depreciation. However, EBITDA does not equal cash flow. This is because it does not adjust for any increase in working capital or account for capital expenditure that is needed to support production and maintain a company’s asset base—as operating cash flow does.


   Other Profit Margins  

By comparing EBIT to sales, operating profit margins show how successful a company's management has been at generating income from the operation of the business.  There are several other margin calculations that businesses and analysts can employ to get slightly different insights into a firm's profitability.



The gross margin tells us how much profit a company makes on its cost of sales or COGS. In other words, it indicates how efficiently management uses labor and supplies in the production process.



The net margin considers the net profits generated from all segments of a business, accounting for all costs and accounting items incurred, including taxes and depreciation. In other words, this ratio compares net income with sales. It comes as close as possible to summing up in a single figure how effectively the managers are running a business.




Why Is Operating Margin Important?
The operating margin is an important measure of a company's overall profitability from operations. It is the ratio of operating profits to revenues for a company or business segment.Expressed as a percentage, the operating margin shows how much earnings from operations is generated from every $1 in sales after accounting for the direct costs involved in earning those revenues. Larger margins mean that more of every dollar in sales is kept as profit.




How Can Companies Improve Their Net Profit Margin?
When a company's operating margin exceeds the average for its industry, it is said to have a competitive advantage, meaning it is more successful than other companies that have similar operations. While the average margin for different industries varies widely, businesses can gain a competitive advantage in general by increasing sales or reducing expenses—or both.Boosting sales, however, often involves spending more money to do so, which equals greater costs. Cutting too many costs can also lead to undesirable outcomes, including losing skilled workers, shifting to inferior materials, or other losses in quality. Cutting advertising budgets may also harm sales.To reduce the cost of production without sacrificing quality, the best option for many businesses is expansion. Economies of scale refer to the idea that larger companies tend to be more profitable. A large business's increased level of production means that the cost of each item is reduced in several ways. For example, raw materials purchased in bulk are often discounted by wholesalers.




How Is Operating Margin Different From Other Profit Margin Measures?
Operating margin takes into account all operating costs but excludes any non-operating costs. Net profit margin takes into account all costs involved in a sale, making it the most comprehensive and conservative measure of profitability. Gross margin, on the other hand, simply looks at the costs of goods sold (COGS) and ignores things such as overhead, fixed costs, interest expenses, and taxes.




What Are Some High and Low Profit Margin Industries?
High operating margin sectors typically include those in the services industry, as there are fewer assets involved in the production than an assembly line. Similarly, software or gaming companies may invest initially while developing a particular software/game and cash in big later by simply selling millions of copies with very little expense. Meanwhile, luxury goods and high-end accessories often operate on high-profit potential and low sales.Operations-intensive businesses such as transportation, which may have to deal with fluctuating fuel prices, drivers’ perks and retention, and vehicle maintenance, usually have lower operating margins. Agriculture-based ventures, too, usually have lower margins owing to weather uncertainty, high inventory, operational overheads, need for farming and storage space, and resource-intensive activities.Automobiles also have low margins, as profits and sales are limited by intense competition, uncertain consumer demand, and high operational expenses involved in developing dealership networks and logistics.
What Is Operating Profit?  

A company's operating profit is its total earnings from its core business functions for a given period, excluding the deduction of interest and taxes. It also excludes any profits earned from ancillary investments, such as earnings from other businesses that a company has a part interest in. An operating loss occurs when core business income ends up being lower than expenses.





Key Takeaways

Operating profit is the net income derived from a company's primary or core business operations.Operating profit is also (wrongfully) referred to as earnings before interest and tax (EBIT), as interest and taxes are non-operating expenses.Operating profit does not include non-operating income, but EBIT does.Operating profit eliminates several extraneous and indirect factors that can obscure a company's real performance.Operating profit margin shows how well a company turns gross revenue into this figure.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Formula and Calculation of Operating Profit  

The formula used to calculate operating profit is:



Operating Profit = Gross Profit - Operating Expenses - Depreciation - Amortization



Where:



Gross Profit is calculated as Revenue - Cost of Goods Sold (COGS)


   What Operating Profit Can Tell You  

Operating profit serves as a highly accurate indicator of a business's health because it removes all extraneous factors from the calculation. All expenses that are necessary to keep the business running are included, which is why operating profit takes into account asset-related depreciation and amortization—accounting tools that result from a firm's operations.



Operating profit is also referred to as operating income as well as earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)—although wrongfully, the latter includes non-operating income, which is not part of operating profit. If a firm does not have any non-operating income, its operating profit will equal EBIT.



Companies can choose to present their operating profit figures in place of their net profit figures, as the net profit of a company contains the effects of taxes and interest payments. If a company has a particularly high debt load, the operating profit may present the company's financial situation more positively than the net profit reflects.



While positive operating profit may express the overall health of a business, it does not guarantee future profitability. Case in point: A company with a high debt load may show a positive operating profit while simultaneously experiencing net losses. In addition, large but extraneous costs are not represented, which may also show a company with a negative net profit having a positive operating profit.






Operating profit is also referred colloquially as  earnings before interest and tax (EBIT). However, EBIT can include non-operating revenue, which is not included in operating profit. If a company doesn't have non-operating revenue, EBIT and operating profit will be the same figure.


  Exclusions from Operating Income  

Revenue created through the sale of assets is not included in the operating profit figure, except for any items created for the explicit purpose of being sold as part of the core business. In addition, interest earned from cash such as checking or money market accounts is not included.



While the removal of production costs from overall operating revenue—along with any costs associated with depreciation and amortization—is permitted when determining the operating profit, the calculation does not account for any debt obligations that must be met. This is the case even if those obligations are directly tied to the company’s ability to maintain normal business operations.



Operating income does not include investment income generated through a partial stake in another company, even if the investment income is tied directly to the core business operations of the second company. The sale of assets such as real estate and production equipment is also not included, as these sales are not a part of the core operations of the business.


   Example of Operating Profit  

Walmart Inc. reported an operating income of $22.6 billion for its fiscal year 2021. Total revenues (net sales as well as membership and other income) were $559.2 billion.  These revenues came from sales across Walmart's global umbrella of physical stores, including Sam's Club, and its e-commerce businesses.



Meanwhile, the cost of sales (or COGS) and operating, selling, general, and administrative expenses, totaled $420.3 billion and $116.3 billion, respectively.


   Operating Profit vs. Other Profit Measures  
  Operating Profit vs. Gross Profit  

Gross profit is the total revenue of a company minus the expenses directly related to the production of goods for sale (i.e., the cost of goods sold).



Gross Profit = Revenues - COGS



Derived from gross profit, operating profit reflects the residual income that remains after accounting for all the costs of doing business.



Operating Profit = Gross Profit - Operating Expenses - Depreciation - Amortization


  Operating Profit vs. EBITDA  

Earnings before income, taxes, depreciation, and amortization - better known as EBITDA - takes operating profit and adds back interest, depreciation, and amortization.



EBITDA = Operating Profit + Interest + Depreciation + Amortization



EBITDA is a cash-focused metric for stakeholders who care about the cash flow of the business. Operating profit is an accounting metric for the stakeholders who care about the operational profitability of the company.


  Operating Profit vs. Net Profit  

Net profit (or net income) is the profit remaining after all costs incurred in the period have been subtracted from revenue generated from sales. Expenses that factor into the calculation of net income but not operating profit include payments on debts, interest on loans, and one-time payments for unusual events such as lawsuits. Additional income not counted as revenue is also considered in the calculation of net income and includes interest earned on investments and funds from the sale of assets not associated with primary operations.




What Does Operating Profit Tell You?
Operating profit is a useful and accurate indicator of a business's health because it removes any irrelevant factor from the calculation. Operating profit only takes into account those expenses that are necessary to keep the business running. This includes asset-related depreciation and amortization, which result from a firm's operations. Operating profit is also referred to as operating income.




How Do You Calculate Operating Profit?
Operating profit is calculated by taking revenue and then subtracting cost of goods sold (COGS), operating expenses, and depreciation and amortization.




How Do You Find the Operating Profit Margin?
The operating profit (or operating income) can be found on the income statement, or calculated as revenue - cost of goods sold (COGS) - operating expenses - depreciation - amortization. Operating profit margin is calculated by dividing operating income by revenue.




What Is Excluded From the Operating Profit?
Revenue created through the sale of assets is not included in the operating profit figure, except for any items created for the explicit purpose of being sold as part of the core business. In addition, interest earned from cash such as checking or money market accounts is not included, nor does it account for any debt obligations that must be met. Finally, it does not include investment income generated through a partial stake in another company.


   The Bottom Line  

Operating profit looks at a company's earnings generated through normal business operations. Analyzing operating profit, which can be found on the income statement, is useful because it excludes accounting items such as one-time charges, interest, and taxes that may skew a company's profit in a given year. These items are accounted for instead in a company's net profit, or bottom line.
What Is the Operating Ratio?  

The operating ratio shows the efficiency of a company's management by comparing the total operating expense (OPEX) of a company to net sales. The operating ratio shows how efficient a company's management is at keeping costs low while generating revenue or sales. The smaller the ratio, the more efficient the company is at generating revenue vs. total expenses.





Key Takeaways


The operating ratio shows the efficiency of a company's management by comparing the total operating expense of a company to net sales.
An operating ratio that is decreasing is viewed as a positive sign, as it indicates that operating expenses are becoming an increasingly smaller percentage of net sales.
A limitation of the operating ratio is that it doesn't include debt.













Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   How the Operating Ratio Works  

The calculation for the operating ratio is:



﻿




O


p


e


r


a


t


i


n


g



R


a


t


i


o


=




O


p


e


r


a


t


i


n


g



E


x


p


e


n


s


e


s



+



C


o


s


t



o


f



G


o


o


d


s



S


o


l


d




N


e


t



S


a


l


e


s





Operating\, Ratio = \frac{Operating\, Expenses\, +\, Cost\, of\, Goods\, Sold}{Net\, Sales}


OperatingRatio=NetSalesOperatingExpenses+CostofGoodsSold​﻿



From a company's income statement take the total cost of goods sold, which can also be called cost of sales.
Find total operating expenses, which should be farther down the income statement.
Add total operating expenses and cost of goods sold or COGS and plug the result into the numerator of the formula.
Divide the sum of operating expenses and COGS by the total net sales.
Please note that some companies include the cost of goods sold as part of operating expenses while other companies list the two costs separately.


   What Does the Operating Ratio Tell You?  

Investment analysts have many ways of analyzing company performance. Because it concentrates on core business activities, one of the most popular ways to analyze performance is by evaluating the operating ratio. Along with return on assets and return on equity, it is often used to measure a company's operational efficiency. It is useful to track the operating ratio over a period of time to identify trends in operational efficiency or inefficiency.



An operating ratio that is going up is viewed as a negative sign, as this indicates that operating expenses are increasing relative to sales or revenue. Conversely, if the operating ratio is falling, expenses are decreasing, or revenue is increasing, or some combination of both. A company may need to implement cost controls for margin improvement if its operating ratio increases over time.


   Components of the Operating Ratio  

Operating expenses are essentially all expenses except taxes and interest payments. Also, companies will typically not include non-operating expenses in the operating ratio.



Operating expenses are the costs associated with running the business that is not directly tied to the production of the product or service. Operating expenses include overhead expenses such as sales, general, and administrative costs. An example of overhead might be the expense of the corporate office for a company because although necessary, it's not directly tied to production. Operating expenses can include:



Accounting and legal fees
Bank charges
Sales and marketing costs
Non-capitalized research and development expenses
Office supply costs
Rent and utility expenses
Repair and maintenance costs
Salary and wage expenses



Operating expenses can also include the cost of goods sold, which are the expenses directly tied to the production of goods and services. However, most companies separate operating expenses from the cost of goods sold. Therefore, the two costs must be added together to form the numerator in the operating ratio calculation. Cost of goods sold can include the following:



Direct material costsDirect laborRent of the plant or production facilityBenefits and wages for the production workersRepair costs of equipment



Revenue or net sales is the top line of the income statement and is the amount of money a company generates before expenses are taken out. Some companies list revenue as net sales because they have returns of merchandise from customers whereby they credit the client back, which is deducted from revenue.



All of these line items are listed on the income statement. Companies must clearly state which expenses are operational and which are designated for other uses.


   Example of the Operating Ratio   

Below is the income statement for Apple Inc. (AAPL) as of June 27, 2020, according to their Q3 report.



Apple reported total revenue or net sales of $59.68 billion for the period.The total cost of sales (or cost of goods sold) was $37.00 billion while total operating expenses were $9.59 billion.We calculate the numerator of the operating ratio by adding $37.00 billion (COS) + $9.59 billion (operating expenses) for a total of $46.59 billion for the period.The operating ratio is calculated as follows: $46.59 billion / $59.68 billion, which equals 0.78 or 78%.﻿﻿



The operating ratio for Apple means that 78% of the company's net sales are operating expenses. Apple's operating ratio must be examined over several quarters to get a sense of whether the company is managing its operating costs effectively. Also, investors can monitor operating expenses and cost of goods sold (or cost of sales) separately to determine whether costs are either increasing or decreasing over time.


   Operating Ratio vs. Operating Expense Ratio  

The operating expense ratio (OER) is used in the real estate industry and is a measurement of what it costs to operate a property compared to the income that the property generates. It is calculated by dividing a property's operating expense (minus depreciation) by its gross operating income. The OER is used for comparing the expenses of similar properties.



On the other hand, the operating ratio is the comparison of a company's total expenses compared to the revenue or net sales generated. The operating ratio is used for company analysis in various industries while the OER is used in the real estate industry.


   Limitations of the Operating Ratio  

A limitation of the operating ratio is that it doesn't include debt. Some companies take on a great deal of debt, meaning they are committed to paying large interest payments, which are not included in the operating expenses figure of the operating ratio. Two companies can have the same operating ratio with vastly different debt levels, so it is important to compare debt ratios before coming to any conclusions.



As with any financial metric, the operating ratio should be monitored over multiple reporting periods to determine if a trend is present. Companies can sometimes cut costs in the short term, thus inflating their earnings temporarily. Investors must monitor costs to see if they're increasing or decreasing over time while also comparing those results to the performance of revenue and profit.



It's also important to compare the operating ratio with other firms in the same industry. If a company has a higher operating ratio than its peer average, it may indicate inefficiency and vice versa. Finally, as with all ratios, it should be used as part of a full ratio analysis, rather than in isolation.
What Is Operating Revenue?  

Operating revenue is the revenue that a company generates from its primary business activities. 



For example, a retailer produces its operating revenue through merchandise sales; a physician derives their operating revenue from the medical services that they provide. What constitutes operating revenue varies based on the business or the industry. 





Key Takeaways

Operating revenue is generated by a company's primary business activities.Operating revenue can be compared year-over-year to assess the health of a company and its operations.Operating revenue should be separated out from non-operating revenue that occurs from infrequent, unusual, or one-time events.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Operating Revenue  

Distinguishing operating revenue from total revenue is important because it provides valuable information about the productivity and profitability of a company's primary business operations. 



Despite the fact that operating revenue is recorded separately on financial statements, some firms may attempt to mask decreases in operating revenue by combining it with non-operating revenue. Understanding and identifying the sources of revenue is helpful in assessing the health of a firm and its operations. 


   Operating Revenue vs. Non-Operating Revenue  

Non-operating revenue is revenue generated by activities outside of a company's primary operations. This type of revenue tends to be infrequent and oftentimes unusual. Examples of non-operating income include interest income, gains from the sale of assets, lawsuit proceeds, and revenues from other sources not connected to operations. 



For example, a private university may classify tuition received as operating revenue, whereas gifts from alumni are considered non-operating revenue (because they are not expected nor are they part of ordinary university operations).



In this example, the university's income statement lists operating revenue and profit from operations first, then it posts non-operating revenue and profit, such as revenue received from gifts and legacy donations. This presentation of information informs those reviewing the company's financial records that the gift is not an ordinary part of the university's business. It is important to distinguish the difference because non-operating revenue can change drastically from year to year.


   Special Considerations  
  Cash Flow  

Non-operating revenue and income do not produce cash inflows that are consistent from one year to the next, which is another reason why the activity is separately identified in the income statement. For a company to fund company operations, the business must generate operating revenue. Firms that drive operating revenue can fund the business regularly without the need to seek additional financing, and these companies can operate with a lower cash balance.



For example, a company may sell a fixed asset, such as a building, in the current year. If the building is sold at a gain, the gain will be treated as non-operating revenue in the year it was sold. This revenue is not expected as a normal course of doing business, and the one-time revenue should not be used to assess the success of the company's primary operations year over year.


  Stock Prices  

For a successful company, operating revenue and income are the primary sources of earnings per share (EPS); this ratio is a key statistic for evaluating a firm's stock price.



EPS is defined as earnings available to common shareholders divided by common shares outstanding. A well-managed business can grow operating revenue and income by finding more customers and moving into new markets that generate higher earnings. As EPS increases, many investors and analysts consider the stock to be more valuable and the stock price increases.
What Is Operation Twist?  

Operation Twist is a Federal Reserve (Fed) monetary policy initiative used in the past to lower long-term interest rates to further stimulate the U.S. economy when traditional monetary tools were lacking via the timed purchase and sale of U.S. Treasuries of different maturities.



The term gets its name from the simultaneous buying of long-term bonds and selling short-term bonds, suggests a "twisting" of the yield curve and creating less curvature in the rates term structure.





Key Takeaways

Operation Twist is a monetary policy strategy used by central banks aimed at stimulating economic growth through lowering long-term interest rates.This is achieved by selling near-term Treasuries to buy longer-dated ones.Operation Twist effectively "twists" the ends of the yield curve where short-term yields go up and long-term interest rates drop simultaneously.Operation Twist was first attempted in 1961, and again in the years following the 2008-09 financial crisis.


   Understanding Operation Twist  

The name "Operation Twist" was given by the mainstream media due to the visual effect that the monetary policy action was expected to have on the shape of the yield curve. If you visualize a linear upward sloping yield curve, this monetary action effectively "twists" the ends of the yield curve, hence the name Operation Twist. To put it another way, the yield curve twists when short-term yields go up and long-term interest rates drop at the same time.



The original 'Operation Twist' came about in 1961 when the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) sought to strengthen the U.S. Dollar (USD) and stimulate inflows of cash into the economy. At this time, the country was still recovering from a recession following the end of the Korean War. In order to promote spending in the economy, the yield curve was flattened by selling short-term government debt in the markets and using the proceeds from the sale to purchase long-term government debt.﻿﻿ 



The operation describes a form of monetary policy where the Fed buys and sells short-term and long-term bonds depending on their objective. However, unlike quantitative easing (QE), Operation Twist does not expand the Fed's balance sheet, making it a less aggressive form of easing.






Market turmoil in early 2021 has fueled speculation that the Fed could use Operation Twist for the first time in nearly a decade.


   Special Considerations   

Remember there is an inverse relationship between bond prices and yield—when prices go down in value, the yield increases, and vice versa. The Fed’s purchasing activity of long-term debt drives up the price of the securities and, in turn, decreases the yield. When long-term yields fall faster than short-term rates in the market, the yield curve flattens to reflect the smaller spread between the long-term and short-term rates.



Also note that selling short-term bonds would decrease the price and, hence, increase the rates. However, the short end of the yield curve based on short-term interest rates is determined by expectations of the Federal Reserve policy, rising when the Fed is expected to raise rates and falling when interest rates are expected to be cut. 



Since Operation Twist involves the Fed leaving short-term rates unchanged, only the long-term rates will be impacted by the buy and sell activity conducted in the markets. This would cause long-term yields to decrease at a higher rate than short-term yields.


   Operation Twist Mechanism  

In 2011, the Fed could not reduce short-term rates any further since the rates were already at zero. The alternative then was to lower long-term interest rates. To achieve this, the Fed sold short-term Treasury securities and bought long-term Treasuries, which pressured the long-term bond yields downward, thereby boosting the economy. 



As short-term Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and notes matured, the Fed would use the proceeds to buy longer-term Treasury notes (T-notes) and bonds. The effect on short-term interest rates was minimal as the Fed had committed to keeping short-term interest rates near zero for the next couple of years. 



During this time, the yield on 2-year bonds was close to zero and the yield on 10-year T-notes, the benchmark bond for interest rates on all fixed-rate loans, was only about 1.95%.



A fall in interest rates reduces the cost of borrowing for businesses and individuals. When these entities have access to loans at low-interest rates, spending in the economy increases and unemployment falls as businesses can affordably secure capital to expand and finance their projects.
What Is Operational Efficiency?  

Operational efficiency is primarily a metric that measures the efficiency of profit earned as a function of operating costs. The greater the operational efficiency, the more profitable a firm or investment is. This is because the entity is able to generate greater income or returns for the same or lower cost than an alternative.



In financial markets, operational efficiency occurs when transaction costs and fees are reduced. An operationally efficient market may also be known as an "internally efficient market."





Key Takeaways

Operational efficiency measures the proportion of costs incurred during an economic or financial activity, where lower costs equate with greater efficiency.For investors and traders, markets exhibit operational efficiency when transaction costs are low.Offering bulk discounts or free commissions to traders is one way to increase the operational efficiency of investment markets.


   Understanding Operational Efficiency  

Operational efficiency in the investment markets is typically centered around transaction costs associated with investments. Operational efficiency in the investment markets can be compared to general business practices for operational efficiency in production. Operationally efficient transactions are those that are exchanged with the highest margin, meaning an investor pays the lowest fee to earn the highest profit.



Similarly, companies seek to earn the highest gross margin profit from their products by manufacturing goods at the lowest cost. In nearly all cases, operational efficiency can be improved by economies of scale. In the investment markets, this can mean buying more shares of an investment at a fixed trading cost to reduce the fee per share.



A market is reported to be operationally efficient when conditions exist allowing participants to execute transactions and receive services at a price that equates fairly to the actual costs required to provide them.



Operationally efficient markets are typically a byproduct of competition. Operationally efficient markets may also be influenced by regulation that works to cap fees in order to protect investors against exorbitant costs.


  Operational Efficiency and Investment  

Operationally efficient markets can help to improve the overall efficiency of investment portfolios. Greater operational efficiency in the investment markets means capital can be allocated without excessive frictional costs that reduce the risk/reward profile of an investment portfolio.



Investment funds are also analyzed by their comprehensive operational efficiency. A fund’s expense ratio is one metric for determining operational efficiency. A number of factors influence the expense ratio of a fund: transaction costs, management fees, and administrative expenses. Comparatively, funds with a lower expense ratio are generally considered to be more operationally efficient.


   Productivity vs. Efficiency  

Productivity serves as a measurement of output, normally expressed as some units per amount of time—for example, 100 units per hour. Efficiency in production most often relates to the costs per unit of production rather than just the number of units produced.



Productivity versus efficiency can also involve analysis of economies of scale. Entities seek to optimize production levels in order to achieve efficient economies of scale, which then helps to lower per-unit costs and increase per-unit returns.


   Examples of Investment Market Operational Efficiency  

Funds with greater assets under management (AUM) can obtain greater operational efficiency because of the higher number of shares transacted per trade.



Generally, passive investment funds are typically known to have greater operational efficiency than active funds based on their expense ratios. Passive funds offer targeted market exposure through index replication. Large funds have the advantage of economies of scale in trading. For passive funds, following the holdings of an index also incurs lower transaction costs.



In other areas of the market, certain structural or regulatory changes can make participation more operationally efficient. In 2000, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) passed a resolution allowing money market funds to be considered eligible margin requirements—prior to this only cash was eligible. This minor change reduced unnecessary costs of trading in and out of money market funds, making the futures markets more operationally efficient.



Financial regulators have also imposed an 8.5% sales charge cap on mutual fund commissions. This cap helps to improve operational trading efficiency and investment profits for individual investors.
What Is Operational Risk?  

Operational risk summarizes the uncertainties and hazards a company faces when it attempts to do its day-to-day business activities within a given field or industry. A type of business risk, it can result from breakdowns in internal procedures, people and systems—as opposed to problems incurred from external forces, such as political or economic events, or inherent to the entire market or market segment, known as systematic risk.



Operational risk can also be classified as a variety of unsystematic risk, which is unique to a specific company or industry.





Key Takeaways

Operational risk summarizes the chances and uncertainties a company faces in the course of conducting its daily business activities, procedures, and systems.Operational risk is heavily dependent on the human factor: mistakes or failures due to actions or decisions made by a company's employees.Companies assess operational risk by identifying key risk indicators (KRIs) and collecting data against these metrics.A type of business risk, operational risk is distinct from systematic risk and financial risk.Companies can manage operational risk by anticipating risks before they arise, perform cost/benefit analysis, avoid unnecessary risk, and delegate strategic planning to upper management.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Operational Risk  

Operational risk focuses on how things are accomplished within an organization and not necessarily what is produced or inherent within an industry. These risks are often associated with active decisions relating to how the organization functions and what it prioritizes. While the risks are not guaranteed to result in failure, lower production, or higher overall costs, they are seen as higher or lower depending on various internal management decisions.



Because it reflects man-made procedures and thinking processes, operational risk can be summarized as a human risk; it is the risk of business operations failing due to human error. It changes from industry to industry and is an important consideration to make when looking at potential investment decisions. Industries with lower human interaction are likely to have lower operational risk.






Operational risk falls into the category of business risk; other types of business risk include strategic risk (not operating according to a model or plan) and compliance risk (not operating in accordance with laws and industry regulations).


   Causes of Operational Risk  

Operational risk is usually caused by four different avenues: people, processes, systems, or external events. For many aspects of operational risk, companies must simply try to mitigate the risk within each category as best as possible with the understanding that some operational risk will likely always be present.


  People  

Operational risk caused by people can arise due to employee deficiencies or employee shortages. For example, a company may not have staff that has the knowledge needed to tackle a specific problem. On the other hand, a company may not have an appropriate quantity of employees on hand to properly address peak season or the busier times of the year.



To mitigate these types of risks, companies can simply look to markets to hire staff. However, this introduces new people-centric operational risks such as identifying the appropriate candidates to hire, training staff, and ensuring employee retention remains high. As each of these aspects is resource and time-intensive, operational risks caused by people are heavily tied to financial repercussions.


  Processes  

Every company has its own processes. More complex manufacturing companies (i.e. a vehicle manufacturer) will have different processes compared to a service-only law firm. In either case, all companies have steps that must be performed in sequential order or else detrimental outcomes are possible.



In many cases, especially with companies that have experienced high turnover, companies may not have fully built out their processes or documented all steps. In addition, some processes are also at risk of being taken advantage of through collusion and failed internal controls to put the company at risk of losing money through theft.


  Systems  

Companies more and more are relying on software and systems to operate their business. Operational risk includes the chance that these systems are outdated, inadequate, or not property set up. There are also performance considerations, as operational risk includes the chance that one company's systems are not as efficient as a competitor's.



There are operational risks relating to the technical aspects of a system. Systems may have bugs or technical deficiencies leading to more exposure to cybercrime. Systems also have capacity constraints, and a company may be increasing its risk by putting to heavy of a load of expectations on what their systems can do.


  External Events  

In many cases, operational risk occurs from outside the company. This can be anything from natural disasters that impede the shipping process of a company to political changes that restrict how the company can operate. Some of these types of risk may be classified on their own (i.e. geopolitical risk). Others are simply a nature of business such as a third-party defaulting on a contract agreement.






Operational risk can never be 100% eliminated. Management must decide what level of operational risk is comfortable accepting.


   The 7 Categories of Operational Risk  

The four causes above can be expanded and broken into 7 main categories of operational risk. These 7 primary categories include (in no particular order):



Internal fraud: employees conspiring and often colluding to overtake internal controls and misappropriate company resources.External fraud: independent parties outside of the company attempting to bribe, thieve, forge, or cyberattack.Technology failures: deficiencies in computer systems, hardware, software, or the interaction between any of their components.Process execution: management's inability to properly assess a situation and deploy the right strategy or failure to execute a correct strategy.Safety: violation or risk of violation of workplace safety measures, whether physical, mental, or other.Natural disasters: inclement weather, fire, or harsh winter conditions that can put physical assets at risk and make it impossible for employees to perform their daily tasks.Business practices: operational activities that harm customers, mislead information, incite negligence, or accidently not be in compliance of requirements.


   How to Assess Operational Risk  

There are two primary parts of assessing operational risk: key risk indicators (KRIs) and data.



KRIs are metrics a company may self-assign as the benchmarks for risk. For example, a company may target that it only wants to work with the most creditworthy vendors. Therefore, it sets the KRI that there may be no more than three vendors that default on a contract. As the year progresses, the company can assess whether the KRI goal is being met, reasons why it is not, and take the appropriate steps to manage that risk.



KRIs are most often quantifiable; it's most useful to a company to have something they can actually track and measure. For this reason, the second key part is data. Without data, a company will never know whether its KRIs are on track or deficient. Companies may seek to build out robust information-gathering processes whether through automation, third-party surveys, financial results, or industry data.



In respect to KRIs and data, some companies may have the operational risk areas worth tracking defined for them. For example, banking standards may require banks to have certain processes in place, cash on hand, or systems operating in certain ways. In these cases, the benchmarks are set for the company, and it is much easier to assess operational risk because the KRIs have already been set.


   How to Manage Operational Risk  

There's several overarching strategies and overarching principles when it comes to managing operational risk. Though every company can choose to approach operational risk, here are four primary ways companies manage risk.


  Avoid Unnecessary Risk  

It should go without saying, but companies should continually evaluate whether they are taking on risk with no real reward coming back to them. Consider the example above with vendors that may potentially default on contracts. Should there be equally if not better vendors the company could work with that have a better credit history, the company may be taking on risk by working with less than superior vendors.



As is with all things in investing, there is usually a positive relationship between risk and returns. As companies take on more risk, they should be fairly compensated with greater returns. Therefore, companies can manage operational risk by cutting out processes that do not reward the company but instead solely incur unnecessary risk.


  Cost/Benefit Analysis  

Companies can manage risk by continually considering and evaluating cost/benefit situations. Similarly to the concept above, companies must manage risk by comparing the risk they take on with the benefits they receive. Instead of focusing solely on the risk, this step entails being mindful of the what the company benefits from.



For example, a company may decide it wants to expand into an international market. There may be tremendous operational risk with this move. However, if the market is untapped and proper research has been done, the reward of expanding the business may far outweigh the operational risk. To manage risk, sometimes companies need to understand that risk is necessary.


  Delegate Decisions to Upper Management  

For companies to make the wisest decisions, it's usually best for upper management to make the decisions on how to approach operational risk. These members of the team often have the greatest insights into a company and know larger, bigger strategies that may work together.



Running with the example above, a senior member of the management team should be made responsible for the decision-making of that international expansion. That executive should work with members across all teams of the company to better understand the logistics, legal, procurement, and shipment risks. This type of responsibility is not suited for an individual contributor at a lower level.


  Anticipate Risk  

Perhaps one of the most important aspects of managing risk is understanding when it is approaching and anticipating its outcomes. By doing so, companies can preemptively make decisions on whether to accept, mitigate, or avoid risk.



In the international expansion example above, a company can easily perform vast amounts of research to better understand geographical limitations, political risks, or consumer preference differences in this new market. The first step to accepting risk or managing it is to understand what may happen in the future and have a plan already in place to overcome it.


   Operational Risk vs. Other Types of Risk  
  Operational Risk vs. Financial Risk  

In a corporate context, financial risk refers to the possibility that a company's cash flow will prove inadequate to meet its obligations—that is, its loan repayments and other debts. Although this inability could relate to or result from decisions made by management (especially company finance professionals), as well as the performance of the company products, financial risk is considered distinct from operational risk. It is most often related to the company's use of financial leverage and debt financing, rather than the day-to-day efforts of making the company a profitable enterprise.


  Operational Risk vs. Market Risk  

Market risk is usually referred to as the risk of price movements for a financial instrument. These changes in price are often based on investor disposition towards a stock and a company, interest rates, or economic factors. Whereas market risk is primarily focused on investments and securities, operational risk is focused on mostly the internal operations of a company, its resources, and its people.


  Operational Risk vs. Strategic Risk  

These two types of risks may blend together in certain areas, though the greatest distinction is that strategic risk is usually long-term and may involve more external parties. A new competitor entering a market is a strategic risk, though how the company handles that on a day-to-day basis is an operational risk. The competitor may have also decided to enter the market because they felt their level of operational risk could be less than other companies.


   Examples of Operational Risk  

One area that may involve operational risk is the maintenance of necessary systems and equipment. If two maintenance activities are required, but it is determined that only one can be afforded at the time, making the choice to perform one over the other alters the operational risk depending on which system is left in disrepair. If a system fails, the negative impact is associated directly with the operational risk.



Other areas that qualify as operational risk tend to involve the personal element within the organization. If a sales-oriented business chooses to maintain a subpar sales staff, due to its lower salary costs or any other factor, this behavior is considered an operational risk. The same can be said for failing to properly maintain a staff to avoid certain risks. In a manufacturing company, for example, choosing not to have a qualified mechanic on staff, and having to rely on third parties for that work, can be classified as an operational risk. Not only does this impact the smooth functioning of a system, but it also involves additional time delays.



The willing participation of employees in fraudulent activity may also be seen as operational risk. In this case, the risk involves the possibility of repercussions if the activity is uncovered. Since individuals make an active decision to commit fraud, it is considered a risk relating to how the business operates.




What Are the 5 Levels of Risk?
Companies often gauge risk by determining whether it is highly likely, likely, possible, unlikely, or highly unlikely an event will occur. Highly likely is often assigned a percentage of greater than 90%, while likely includes a range that is always above 50%. Management uses these percentages to determine the best course of action when evaluating the cost of mitigation against the cost of a detrimental outcome.




How Do You Identify Operational Risk?
Operational risk is identified by assessing what could go wrong in the day-to-day aspects of a company. Management often identifies operational risk by asking questions such as "what if a certain system broke down?" or "what if a certain supplier was unable to deliver goods on time?". Management can come up countless areas of operational risk; it is up to them to decide which aspects are most important to mitigate and which to accept.




What Are the 4 T's of Risk Management?
The four T's of risk management are:Tolerate: management decides they are okay with a certain operational risk and does not action to stop it.Terminate: management is not okay with any level of risk with a certain activity and decides to stop that activity.Treat: management puts in place certain maneuvers that decrease the potential total risk.Transfer: management wants to perform an activity but seeks a third-party to incur the risk on their behalf (i.e. buy insurance).




Who Is Responsible for Managing Operational Risk?
Senior management is often responsible for managing operational risk by being aware of what risks are in place and the strategies for overcoming them. Though lower-level field managers are more involved in the day-to-day aspects, senior management should oversee their activities to make sure the operational risk strategies are being properly carried out.


   The Bottom Line  

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from many normal aspects of business. This includes the risk of loss caused by failed processes, unskilled employees, inadequate systems, or external events. In many ways, operational risk can't be avoided as it is part of the daily business activity of a company. In other ways, companies can seek to reduce, mitigate, or accept operational risk.
What Is an Operating Target?  

An operating target is a specific number, for an interest rate or another financial metric, that a central bank sets in order to guide its monetary policy.



Once the operating target is set, the central bank executes its policies, which are designed to loosen or tighten the supply of money in the economy in order to achieve and maintain the target. 





Key Takeaways

The operating target is an intermediate goal that guides the day-to-day actions of the central bank. An operating target works like the speedometer on a car, giving the central bank feedback on the success of the monetary fuel that it has added to feed the economy.The U.S. Federal Reserve uses the federal funds' interest rate as its primary operating target for U.S. monetary policy. 


   Understanding an Operating Target  

Central banks such as the U.S. Federal Reserve are charged with goals that relate to the overall economic performance of a nation. However, they lack the ability to directly control factors such as consumer prices or gross domestic product. So, they choose intermediate targets to monitor.



These targets are economic variables that can be directly impacted by monetary policy and are either causally linked or at least correlated with a nation's overall economic performance. The goals that a central bank chooses to focus on are called its operating targets.


  How the Operating Target Is Used  

A central bank uses an operating target the same way a driver uses the speedometer in a car. A driver wants to get from Point A to Point B at a speed that balances timeliness with safety. The driver cannot directly control the speed of the car, only the position of the throttle which directs fuel to the engine. Nor can the driver easily observe the car's speed, except by looking out the window and guessing at how fast objects on the side of the road seem to be passing. 



So, cars have a speedometer so that the driver can gauge how far to depress the gas pedal. The speedometer measures the rotational speed or the driveshaft or the wheels of the car, which should be closely correlated to the car’s ground speed, and helpfully displays the car’s estimated speed on a clearly visible gauge.



By viewing this gauge and adjusting the position of the throttle, a drive can choose and maintain an appropriate speed.  


  Adjusting the Money Supply  

Similarly, a central bank chooses an operating target that helps it gauge how much money and credit to add to the banking system to achieve and maintain its policy goals. Too little, and debt deflation might slow the economy down. Too much, and an overheated economy, runaway hyperinflation, or a crack-up boom could result. 



The central bank faces a similar problem as the driver. It cannot directly control or even readily observe factors like inflation or GDP growth in real-time. Instead, it chooses an economic variable or operating target that it can observe, that it can directly influence with its policies, and that is closely connected to the ultimate measures of economic performance that it wants to influence. 


  Federal Reserve Operating Targets  

The U.S. Federal Reserve uses operating targets in its day-to-day and long-term implementation of monetary policy. The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) decides on the value of the operational target at each of its regular meetings.



The board then uses monetary policy tools, primarily Permanent Open Market Operations, to reach this target. Much of the operational target aims at adjustments to the federal funds rate, a short-term interbank interest rate. 



Its decisions are posted on the Federal Reserve website.


  The Fed Funds Rate as a Target  

The Fed adjusts its desired target rate for the fed funds rate based on its estimates of the current and future economic conditions, and then buys or sells government bonds to increase or decrease the supply of bank reserves available for overnight lending between banks.



It does so with the expectation that this will in turn influence the amount of bank lending in the economy and thus overall economic performance.



The Fed also uses public announcements about its operating target as a further tool of monetary policy, to communicate forward guidance regarding its likely future target rates in order to manage market expectations.
What Is Operations Management (OM)?  

Operations management (OM) is the administration of business practices to create the highest level of efficiency possible within an organization. It is concerned with converting materials and labor into goods and services as efficiently as possible to maximize the profit of an organization.



Operations management teams attempt to balance costs with revenue to achieve the highest net operating profit possible.





Key Takeaways

Operations management (OM) is the administration of business practices to create the highest level of efficiency possible within an organization.Operations management is concerned with converting materials and labor into goods and services as efficiently as possible.Corporate operations management professionals try to balance costs with revenue to maximize net operating profit.












Katie Kerpel / Investopedia


   Understanding Operations Management (OM)  

Operations management involves utilizing resources from staff, materials, equipment, and technology. Operations managers acquire, develop, and deliver goods to clients based on client needs and the abilities of the company.



Operations management handles various strategic issues, including determining the size of manufacturing plants and project management methods and implementing the structure of information technology networks. Other operational issues include the management of inventory levels, including work-in-process levels and raw materials acquisition, quality control, materials handling, and maintenance policies.



Operations management entails studying the use of raw materials and ensuring that minimal waste occurs. Operations managers use numerous formulas, such as the economic order quantity formula, to determine when and how large an inventory order to process and how much inventory to hold on hand.






The combination of understanding and coordinating the work of a company is central to becoming a successful operations manager.


   Operations and Supply Chain Management (OSCM)  

A critical function of operations management relates to the management of inventory through the supply chain. This process is known as operations and supply chain management (OSCM). To be an effective operations management professional, one must be able to understand the processes that are essential to what a company does and get them to flow and work together seamlessly. The coordination involved in setting up business processes in an efficient way requires a solid understanding of logistics. 



An operations management professional understands local and global trends, customer demand, and available resources for production. Operations management approaches the acquisition of materials and the use of labor in a timely, cost-effective manner to deliver customer expectations. Inventory levels are monitored to ensure that excessive quantities are on hand. Operations management is responsible for finding vendors that supply the appropriate goods at reasonable prices and have the ability to deliver the product when needed.



Another large facet of operations management involves the delivery of goods to customers. This includes ensuring that products are delivered within the agreed time commitment. Operations management also typically follows up with customers to ensure that the products meet quality and functionality needs. Finally, operations management takes the feedback received and distributes the relevant information to each department to use in process improvement.


   What Operations Managers Do  

Operations managers are involved in coordinating and developing new processes while reevaluating current structures. Organization and productivity are two key drivers of being an operations manager, and the work often requires versatility and innovation. As part of their daily responsibilities, operations managers must possess a variety of skill sets, including:



Technical expertise in areas such as production automation, data entry, budget tracking, and design.Organizational ability and attention to detail to include keeping track of project files, employee reports, budgets, schedules, and other details related to company processes.Motivational prowess in the form of strong leadership skills that provide the expertise to motivate others, inspire ideas, and foster a supportive and diverse team.Analytical aptitude, including skill in risk analysis and mitigation when initiating new projects. Operations managers also must analyze processes to identify challenges and offer solutions in the event that negative situations develop.Decision-making proficiency, especially under stress when there is very little time to assess all factors.Ability to maintain quality standards, including as they relate to raw materials, machinery, manufacturing procedures, packaging, delivery processes, and the finished product.



A master of business administration (MBA) degree in operations management can provide global perspective on industry trends and an awareness of financial regulations and political uncertainties that can affect an organization. It also provides a solid grasp of the inherent complexities and the tools needed to respond well to change.




What is the purpose of operations management (OM)?
Operations management (OM) is concerned with controlling the production process and business operations in the most efficient manner possible. OM professionals attempt to balance operating costs with revenue to maximize net operating profit.




What are some systems of operations management?
Modern operations management revolves around four theories:Business process redesign (BPR), which is focused on analyzing and designing workflow and business processes within a company. The goal of BPR is to help companies dramatically restructure the organization by designing the business process from the ground up.Reconfigurable manufacturing systems, designed to incorporate accelerated change in structure, hardware, and software components. This allows systems to adjust rapidly to the capacity to which they can continue production and how efficiently they function in response to market or intrinsic system changes.Six Sigma, an approach that focuses on quality. The word “six” references the control limits, which are placed at six standard deviations from the normal distribution mean. Tools used within the Six Sigma process include trending charts, potential defect calculations, and other ratios.Lean manufacturing, which is the systematic elimination of waste within the manufacturing process. This theory sees resource use for any reason other than value creation for customers as wasteful and seeks to eliminate wasteful resource expenditures as much as possible.




What is an example of operations management?
Operations management is prevalent in the healthcare sector. The current healthcare system overuses expensive, technological, and emergency-based treatment. High costs from care often remain uncompensated due to uninsured patients. A prevalence of services in expensive settings creates a burden on taxpayers, health insurance holders, and healthcare institutions.


   The Bottom Line  

In simple terms, operations management (OM) is the process of prioritizing and employing business practices designed to achieve maximum efficiency as a means to achieve maximum profitability. Within the process, operations managers utilize organization and productivity to achieve their primary goals.



Balancing the efficient use of resources, including staff, materials, equipment, and technology, is key to a successful OM process and, by extension, to the success of the company.
What Is Opportunity Cost?  

Opportunity costs represent the potential benefits that an individual, investor, or business misses out on when choosing one alternative over another. Because opportunity costs are unseen by definition, they can be easily overlooked. Understanding the potential missed opportunities when a business or individual chooses one investment over another allows for better decision making.





Key Takeaways

Opportunity cost is the forgone benefit that would have been derived from an option not chosen.To properly evaluate opportunity costs, the costs and benefits of every option available must be considered and weighed against the others.Considering the value of opportunity costs can guide individuals and organizations to more profitable decision-making.Opportunity cost is a strictly internal cost used for strategic contemplation; it is not included in accounting profit and is excluded from external financial reporting. Examples of opportunity cost include investing in a new manufacturing plant in Los Angeles as opposed to Mexico City, deciding not to upgrade company equipment, or opting for the most expensive product packaging option over cheaper options. 












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Formula and Calculation of Opportunity Cost  
















Opportunity Cost


=


FO


−


CO
















where:
















FO


=


Return on best forgone option
















CO


=


Return on chosen option







\begin{aligned}&\text{Opportunity Cost}=\text{FO}-\text{CO} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{FO}=\text{Return on best forgone option} \\&\text{CO}=\text{Return on chosen option} \\\end{aligned}


​Opportunity Cost=FO−COwhere:FO=Return on best forgone optionCO=Return on chosen option​



The formula for calculating an opportunity cost is simply the difference between the expected returns of each option. Consider a company is faced with the following two mutually exclusive options:



Option A: Invest excess capital in the stock market to potentially earn capital gains.



Option B: Invest excess capital back into the business for new equipment to increase production efficiency. 



Assume the expected return on investment (ROI) in the stock market is 12% over the next year, and your company expects the equipment update to generate a 10% return over the same period. The opportunity cost of choosing the equipment over the stock market is 2% (12% - 10%). In other words, by investing in the business, the company would forgo the opportunity to earn a higher return.






While financial reports do not show opportunity costs, business owners often use the concept to make educated decisions when they have multiple options before them. Bottlenecks, for instance, often result in opportunity costs.


   What Opportunity Cost Can Tell You  

Opportunity cost analysis plays a crucial role in determining a business’s capital structure. A firm incurs an explicit cost of issuing both debt and equity capital capital because it must compensate lenders and shareholders for the risk of investment, yet each option also carries an opportunity cost.



Funds used to make payments on loans, for example, cannot be invested in stocks or bonds, which offer the potential for investment income. The company must decide if the expansion made by the leveraging power of debt will generate greater profits than it could make through investments.



A firm tries to weigh the costs and benefits of issuing debt and stock, including both monetary and nonmonetary considerations, to arrive at an optimal balance that minimizes opportunity costs. Because opportunity cost is a forward-looking consideration, the actual rate of return (RoR) for both options is unknown today, making this evaluation tricky in practice.



It is important to compare investment options that have a similar risk. Comparing a Treasury bill, which is virtually risk free, to investment in a highly volatile stock can cause a misleading calculation. Both options may have expected returns of 5%, but the U.S. government backs the RoR of the T-bill, while there is no such guarantee in the stock market. While the opportunity cost of either option is 0%, the T-bill is the safer bet when you consider the relative risk of each investment.


  Comparing Investments  

When assessing the potential profitability of various investments, businesses look for the option that is likely to yield the greatest return. Often, they can determine this by looking at the expected RoR for an investment vehicle. However, businesses must also consider the opportunity cost of each alternative option.



Assume that, given $20,000 of available funds, a business must choose between investing funds in securities or using it to purchase new machinery. No matter which option the business chooses, the potential profit that it gives up by not investing in the other option is the opportunity cost.



If the business goes with the first option, at the end of the first year, its investment will be worth $22,000. The formula to calculate RoR is [(Current Value - Initial Value) ÷ Current Value] × 100. In this example, [($22,000 - $20,000) ÷ $20,000] × 100 = 10%, so the RoR on the investment is 10%. For the purposes of this example, let’s assume it would net 10% every year after as well. At a 10% RoR, with compounding interest, the investment will increase by $2,000 in year 1, $2,200 in year two, and $2,420 in year three.



Alternatively, if the business purchases a new machine, it will be able to increase its production of widgets. The machine setup and employee training will be intensive, and the new machine will not be up to maximum efficiency for the first couple of years. Let’s assume it would net the company an additional $500 in profits in the first year, after accounting for the additional expenses for training. The business will net $2,000 in year two and $5,000 in all future years.



Since the company has limited funds to invest in either option, it must make a choice. According to this, the opportunity cost for choosing the securities makes sense in the first and second years. However, by the third year, an analysis of the opportunity cost indicates that the new machine is the better option ($500 + $2,000 + $5,000 - $2,000 - $2,200 - $2,420) = $880.





The Most Expensive Pizza Ever?

One of the most famous examples of opportunity cost is a 2010 exchange of Bitcoin for pizza. The opportunity cost of exchanging the 10,000 bitcoins for two large pizzas peaked at almost $700 million based on Bitcoin's 2022 all-time high price.


   The Difference Between Opportunity Cost and Sunk Cost  

A sunk cost is money already spent in the past, while opportunity cost is the potential returns not earned in the future on an investment because the capital was invested elsewhere. When considering opportunity cost, any sunk costs previously incurred are ignored unless there are specific variable outcomes related to those funds.



Buying 1,000 shares of company A at $10 a share, for instance, represents a sunk cost of $10,000. This is the amount of money paid out to invest, and getting that money back requires liquidating stock. The opportunity cost instead asks where that $10,000 could have been put to better use.



From an accounting perspective, a sunk cost also could refer to the initial outlay to purchase an expensive piece of heavy equipment, which might be amortized over time, but which is sunk in the sense that you won’t be getting it back.



An opportunity cost would be to consider the forgone returns possibly earned elsewhere when you buy a piece of heavy equipment with an expected ROI of 5% vs. one with an ROI of 4%. Again, an opportunity cost describes the returns that one could have earned if the money were instead invested in another instrument. Thus, while 1,000 shares in company A eventually might sell for $12 a share, netting a profit of $2,000, company B increased in value from $10 a share to $15 during the same period.



In this scenario, investing $10,000 in company A returned $2,000, while the same amount invested in company B would have returned a larger $5,000. The $3,000 difference is the opportunity cost of choosing company A over company B.



As an investor who has already put money into investments, you might find another investment that promises greater returns. The opportunity cost of holding the underperforming asset may rise to the point where the rational investment option is to sell and invest in the more promising investment.


   Opportunity Cost and Risk  

In economics, risk describes the possibility that an investment’s actual and projected returns are different and that the investor loses some or all of the principal. Opportunity cost concerns the possibility that the returns of a chosen investment are lower than the returns of a forgone investment.



The key difference is that risk compares the actual performance of an investment against the projected performance of the same investment, while opportunity cost compares the actual performance of an investment against the actual performance of another investment.



Still, one could consider opportunity costs when deciding between two risk profiles. If investment A is risky but has an ROI of 25%, while investment B is far less risky but only has an ROI of 5%, even though investment A may succeed, it may not. If it fails, then the opportunity cost of going with option B will be salient. Therefore, decision-makers rely on much more information than just looking at just opportunity cost dollar amounts when comparing options.






In 1962, a little known band called The Beatles auditioned for Decca Records. The label decided against signing the band. This decision would have been made because the opportunity cost to sign them did not outweigh the opportunity cost to pass on them.


   Economic Profit and Accounting Profit  

Opportunity cost is used to calculate different types of company profit. The most common type of profit analysts are familiar with is accounting profit. Accounting profit is the net income calculation often stipulated by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Only explicit, real costs are subtracted from total revenue.



Companies or analysts can future manipulate accounting profit to arrive at an economic profit. The difference between the calculation of the two is economic profit includes opportunity cost as an expense. This theoretical calculation can then be used to compare the actual profit of the company to what the theoretical profit would have been.



Economic profit (and any other calculation above that considers opportunity cost) is strictly an internal value used for strategic decision-making. There are no regulatory bodies that govern public reporting of economic profit or opportunity cost. Whereas accounting profit is heavily dictated by reporting rules and frameworks, economic profit factors in vague assumptions and estimates from management that do not have IRS, SEC, or FASB oversight.


   Example of Opportunity Cost  

Before making big decisions like buying a home or starting a business, you probably will scrupulously research the pros and cons of your financial decision, but most day-to-day choices aren’t made with a full understanding of the potential opportunity costs.



When feeling cautious about a purchase, for instance, many people will check the balance of their savings account before spending money. But they often won’t think about the things that they must give up when they make that spending decision.



The problem comes up when you never look at what else you could do with your money or buy things without considering the lost opportunities. Having takeout for lunch occasionally can be a wise decision, especially if it gets you out of the office for a much-needed break.



However, buying one cheeseburger every day for the next 25 years could lead to several missed opportunities. Aside from the missed opportunity for better health, spending that $4.50 on a burger could add up to just over $52,000 in that time frame, assuming a very achievable 5% RoR.



This is a simple example, but the core message holds for a variety of situations. It may sound like overkill to think about opportunity costs every time you want to buy a candy bar or go on vacation. But opportunity costs are everywhere and occur with every decision made, big or small.




What Is a Simple Definition of Opportunity Cost?
Opportunity cost is often overlooked by investors. In essence, it refers to the hidden cost associated with not taking an alternative course of action. If, for example, a company pursues a particular business strategy without first considering the merits of alternative strategies available to them, they might fail to appreciate their opportunity costs and the possibility that they could have done even better had they chosen another path.




Is Opportunity Cost Real?
Opportunity cost does not show up directly on a company’s financial statements. Economically speaking, though, opportunity costs are still very real. Yet because opportunity cost is a relatively abstract concept, many companies, executives, and investors fail to account for it in their everyday decision making.




What Is an Example of Opportunity Cost?
Consider the case of an investor who, at age 18, was encouraged by their parents to always put 100% of their disposable income into bonds. Over the next 50 years, this investor dutifully invested $5,000 per year in bonds, achieving an average annual return of 2.50% and retiring with a portfolio worth nearly $500,000. Although this result might seem impressive, it is less so when one considers the investor’s opportunity cost. If, for example, they had instead invested half of their money in the stock market and received an average blended return of 5%, then their retirement portfolio would have been worth more than $1 million.




How Do You Determine Opportunity Cost?
The downside of opportunity cost is it is heavily reliant on estimates and assumptions. There's no way of knowing exactly how a different course of action may have played out financially. Therefore, to determine opportunity cost, a company or investor must project the outcome and forecast the financial impact. This includes projecting sales numbers, market penetration, customer demographics, manufacturing costs, customer returns, and seasonality.This complex situation pinpoints the reason why opportunity cost exists. It may not be immediately clear to a company the best course of action; however, after retrospectively assessing the variables above, they may further understand how one option would have been better than the other and they have incurred a "loss" due to opportunity cost.
What Is the Oprah Effect?  

The Oprah Effect refers to the boost in sales that followed an endorsement on "The Oprah Winfrey Show", which aired on TV for 25 years. A recommendation from Oprah, the queen of talk shows, turned many fashion and lifestyle products into multimillion-dollar companies.





Key Takeaways

The Oprah Effect was a boost in sales for companies and individuals featured by Oprah Winfrey, queen of daytime talk shows, on her TV program.Several well-known individuals with talk shows, such as Dr. Phil and health-expert Dr. Oz, received an initial boost to their careers from Oprah.The Oprah Effect was considered powerful because of its authenticity.












   Understanding the Oprah Effect  

Many businesses and people who were lucky enough to appeal to Oprah Winfrey found overnight success after being promoted on her groundbreaking show—which ran from 1986 to 2011 and was the highest-rated daytime talk show in American TV history.



The Oprah Effect was especially powerful because of her authenticity. Oprah chose products she was genuinely interested in, rather than being paid to promote them. And, unlike typical celebrity endorsements, she supported independent family businesses.



Thanks to Oprah, TV personalities like psychologist Dr. Phil, health-expert Dr. Oz, and TV cook Rachael Ray have all become household names with their own TV shows. She also had a huge impact on publishing. Oprah’s Book Club promoted reading and turned books into immediate best sellers.



Today, Oprah is a billionaire and a media mogul. She launched OWN, the Oprah Winfrey Network, in 2011. And while her 10% investment in WW International Inc. (WW), commonly known as Weight Watchers, in 2015 has proved that not everything she touches turns to gold instantly—the dieting company faces stiff competition from mobile apps and fitness trackers—she still has millions of loyal fans and high approval ratings.


   Oprah Effect Examples  

While his interior design firm had been around since 1995, Nate Berkus received a major boost to his career after appearing on Oprah in 2002. Thereafter, he appeared regularly on her show and his design firm has thrived on the publicity. Oprah's production company, Harpo, also co-produced Berkus's daytime show.



The Oprah Effect was most pronounced for the publishing industry. According to available statistics, 59 books chosen by Oprah for her book club appeared on USA Today's top 10 list and 22 reached the No. 1 position. Nobel Laureate Toni Morrison's books are supposed to have received a bigger boost in sales from Oprah's recommendations than from winning the prize itself.
What Is Optimal Capital Structure?  

The optimal capital structure of a firm is the best mix of debt and equity financing that maximizes a company’s market value while minimizing its cost of capital. In theory, debt financing offers the lowest cost of capital due to its tax deductibility. However, too much debt increases the financial risk to shareholders and the return on equity that they require. Thus, companies have to find the optimal point at which the marginal benefit of debt equals the marginal cost.





Key Takeaways

An optimal capital structure is the best mix of debt and equity financing that maximizes a company’s market value while minimizing its cost of capital.Minimizing the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is one way to optimize for the lowest cost mix of financing.According to some economists, in the absence of taxes, bankruptcy costs, agency costs, and asymmetric information, in an efficient market, the value of a firm is unaffected by its capital structure.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Optimal Capital Structure  

The optimal capital structure is estimated by calculating the mix of debt and equity that minimizes the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of a company while maximizing its market value. The lower the cost of capital, the greater the present value of the firm’s future cash flows, discounted by the WACC. Thus, the chief goal of any corporate finance department should be to find the optimal capital structure that will result in the lowest WACC and the maximum value of the company (shareholder wealth).



According to economists Franco Modigliani and Merton Miller, in the absence of taxes, bankruptcy costs, agency costs, and asymmetric information, in an efficient market, the value of a firm is unaffected by its capital structure.


   Optimal Capital Structure and WACC  

The cost of debt is less expensive than equity because it is less risky. The required return needed to compensate debt investors is less than the required return needed to compensate equity investors, because interest payments have priority over dividends, and debt holders receive priority in the event of a liquidation. Debt is also cheaper than equity because companies get tax relief on interest, while dividend payments are paid out of after-tax income.



However, there is a limit to the amount of debt a company should have because an excessive amount of debt increases interest payments, the volatility of earnings, and the risk of bankruptcy. This increase in the financial risk to shareholders means that they will require a greater return to compensate them, which increases the WACC—and lowers the market value of a business. The optimal structure involves using enough equity to mitigate the risk of being unable to pay back the debt—taking into account the variability of the business’s cash flow.



Companies with consistent cash flows can tolerate a much larger debt load and will have a much higher percentage of debt in their optimal capital structure. Conversely, a company with volatile cash flows will have little debt and a large amount of equity.


   Determining the Optimal Capital Structure  

As it can be difficult to pinpoint the optimal capital structure, managers usually attempt to operate within a range of values. They also have to take into account the signals their financing decisions send to the market.



A company with good prospects will try to raise capital using debt rather than equity, to avoid dilution and sending any negative signals to the market. Announcements made about a company taking debt are typically seen as positive news, which is known as debt signaling. If a company raises too much capital during a given time period, the costs of debt, preferred stock, and common equity will begin to rise, and as this occurs, the marginal cost of capital will also rise.



To gauge how risky a company is, potential equity investors look at the debt/equity ratio. They also compare the amount of leverage other businesses in the same industry are using—on the assumption that these companies are operating with an optimal capital structure—to see if the company is employing an unusual amount of debt within its capital structure.



Another way to determine optimal debt-to-equity levels is to think like a bank. What is the optimal level of debt a bank is willing to lend? An analyst may also utilize other debt ratios to put the company into a credit profile using a bond rating. The default spread attached to the bond rating can then be used for the spread above the risk-free rate of a AAA-rated company.


   Limitations of Optimal Capital Structure  

Unfortunately, there is no magic ratio of debt to equity to use as guidance to achieve real-world optimal capital structure. What defines a healthy blend of debt and equity varies according to the industries involved, line of business, and a firm's stage of development, and can also vary over time due to external changes in interest rates and regulatory environment.



However, because investors are better off putting their money into companies with strong balance sheets, it makes sense that the optimal balance generally should reflect lower levels of debt and higher levels of equity.


   Theories on Capital Structure  
  Modigliani-Miller (M&M) Theory  

The Modigliani-Miller (M&M) theorem is a capital structure approach named after Franco Modigliani and Merton Miller. Modigliani and Miller were two economics professors who studied capital structure theory and collaborated to develop the capital structure irrelevance proposition in 1958.



This proposition states that in perfect markets the capital structure a company uses doesn't matter because the market value of a firm is determined by its earning power and the risk of its underlying assets. According to Modigliani and Miller, value is independent of the method of financing used and a company's investments. The M&M theorem made the two following propositions:


  Proposition I  

This proposition says that the capital structure is irrelevant to the value of a firm. The value of two identical firms would remain the same and value would not be affected by the choice of financing adopted to finance the assets. The value of a firm is dependent on the expected future earnings. It is when there are no taxes.


  Proposition II  

This proposition says that the financial leverage boosts the value of a firm and reduces WACC. It is when tax information is available. While the Modigliani-Miller theorem is studied in finance, real firms do face taxes, credit risk, transaction costs, and inefficient markets, which makes the mix of debt and equity financing important.


  Pecking Order Theory  

The pecking order theory focuses on asymmetrical information costs. This approach assumes that companies prioritize their financing strategy based on the path of least resistance. Internal financing is the first preferred method, followed by debt and external equity financing as a last resort.
What Is an Optimal Currency Area (OCA)?  

An optimal currency area (OCA) is the geographic area in which a single currency would create the greatest economic benefit. While traditionally each country has maintained its own separate national currency, work by Robert Mundell in the 1960s theorized that this might not be the most efficient economic arrangement.



In particular, countries that share strong economic ties may benefit from a common currency. This allows for closer integration of capital markets and facilitates trade. However, a common currency results in a loss of each country's ability to direct fiscal and monetary policy interventions to stabilize their individual economies.





Key Takeaways

An optimal currency area (OCA) is the geopolitical area over which a single, unified currency will provide the best balance of economies of scale to a currency and effectiveness of macroeconomic policy to promote growth and stability.Economist Robert Mundell first outlined criteria for an OCA, which are based on the degree of integration and similarity between economies. The euro is an example of an application of an OCA, though events such as the Greek debt crisis have put this to the test.


   Understanding Optimal Currency Areas (OCAs)  

In 1961, Canadian economist Robert Mundell published his theory of the OCA with stationary expectations. He outlined the criteria necessary for a region to qualify as an OCA and benefit from a common currency.



In this model, the primary concern is that asymmetric shocks may undermine the benefit of the OCA. If large asymmetric shocks are common and the criteria for an OCA are not met, then a system of separate currencies with floating exchange rates would be more suitable in order to deal with the negative effects of such shocks within the single country experiencing them.


  Optimal Currency Area (OCA) Criteria  

According to Mundell, there are four main criteria for an OCA:



High labor mobility throughout the area. Easing labor mobility includes lowering administrative barriers such as visa-free travel, cultural barriers such as different languages, and institutional barriers such as restrictions on remittance of pensions or government benefits.
Capital mobility and price and wage flexibility. This ensures that capital and labor will flow between countries in the OCA according to the market forces of supply and demand to distribute the impact of economic shocks.
A currency risk-sharing or fiscal mechanism to share risk across countries in the OCA. This requires the transfer of money to regions experiencing economic difficulties from countries with surpluses, which may prove politically unpopular in higher-performing regions from which tax revenue will be transferred. The European sovereign debt crisis of 2009–2015 is considered evidence of the failure of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) to satisfy these criteria as original EMU policy instituted a no-bailout clause, which soon became evident as unsustainable.
Similar business cycles. Cyclical ups and downs that are synchronous, or at least highly correlated, across countries in the OCA are necessary since the OCA’s central bank will by definition be implementing a uniform monetary policy across the OCA to offset economic recessions and contain inflation. Asynchronous cycles would unavoidably mean that a uniform monetary policy will end up being counter-cyclical for some countries and pro-cyclical in others.



Other criteria have been suggested by later economic research:



A high volume of trade between countries implies that there will be correspondingly high gains from the adoption of a common currency in an OCA. However, a high volume of trade can also suggest large comparative advantages and home market effects between countries, either of which can lead to heavily specialized industries between countries. 
More diversified production within economies and limited specialization and division of labor across countries reduce the likelihood of asymmetric economic shocks. Countries that are heavily specialized in certain goods that other countries do not produce will be vulnerable to asymmetric economic shocks in those industries, and might not be suitable for membership in the OCA. Note that this criteria can come into conflict with some of the above criteria because the greater the degree of integration among countries' economies (mobility of goods, labor, and capital) the more they will tend to specialize in different industries.
Homogeneous policy preferences across countries in the OCA are important because monetary policy, and to some extent fiscal policy in the form of transfers, will be a collective decision and responsibility of the countries in the OCA. Major differences in local preferences for how to respond to either symmetric or asymmetric shocks can undermine cooperation and political will to join or remain in the OCA. 


   Europe, Debt Crises, and the OCA  

The OCA theory had its primary test with the introduction of the euro as a common currency across European nations. Eurozone countries matched some of Mundell's criteria for successful monetary union, providing the impetus for the introduction of a common currency. While the eurozone has seen many benefits from the introduction of the euro, it has also experienced problems such as the Greek debt crisis. Thus, the long-term outcome of a monetary union under the theory of OCAs remains a subject of debate.



The European sovereign debt crisis in the wake of the Great Recession is cited as evidence that the EMU did not fit the criteria for a successful OCA. Critics argue that the EMU did not adequately provide for the greater economic and fiscal integration necessary for cross-border risk-sharing.



Technically, the European Stability and Growth Pact included a “no-bailout” clause that specifically restricted fiscal transfers. However, in practice, this was abandoned early on in the sovereign debt crisis. As Greece’s sovereign debt crisis continued to worsen, there was discussion suggesting that the EMU must account for risk-sharing policies far more extensive than the adopted provisional bailout system. 



Overall, this episode implies that due to the asymmetry of the economic shock to Greece relative to other countries in the EMU and apparent shortfalls in the EMU’s qualification as an OCA under Mundell’s criteria, Greece (and perhaps other countries) might not actually fall within the OCA for the euro.
What Is an Optimization?  

Optimization is the process of making a trading system more effective by adjusting the variables used for technical analysis. A trading system can be optimized by reducing certain transaction costs or risks, or by targeting assets with greater expected returns.





Key Takeaways

Optimization is the process of improving a portfolio, algorithm or trading system to reduce costs or increase efficiency.Portfolios can be optimized by reducing risks, increasing expected returns, or changing the frequency of rebalancing.Because markets and laws are constantly changing, optimization is a constant and ongoing process.Trading algorithms need constant optimization, both to adjust for changing market conditions and to reduce the risk of programming errors.Because optimizing one factor may require tradeoffs in other factors, there is a danger of over-optimization.


   How an Optimization Works  

Broadly speaking, optimization is the act of changing an existing process in order to increase the occurrence of favorable outcomes and decrease the occurrence of undesirable outcomes. This can be used to make a business model more profitable, increase the expected returns on an investment portfolio, or decrease the expected costs of a trading system.



Each optimization depends upon a certain number of assumptions about real-world variables. For example, an investor seeking to optimize their portfolio would begin by assessing factors such as market risk and the likelihood that certain investments may outperform others. Since there is no way to calculate these variables in real time, the investor's optimization strategy would depend upon how well they estimate these factors.



There may be multiple paths to optimization, depending on the assumptions underlying an optimization strategy. Some traders might optimize their strategy with a number of short-term trades to take advantage of predictable price swings. Others might optimize by reducing the number of trades in order to reduce their transaction costs. In either case, the success of an optimization strategy will depend on how well the investor has identified the risks, costs, and potential payouts of their strategy.






Because market conditions are constantly changing, optimizing one's trading system is an going process–like trying to hit a moving target.


   Who Uses Trading Systems for Technical Analysis?  

Trading systems can be used by just about anyone. Individual investors and major institutions alike may have systems that they rely on to provide detailed information to help them choose investment strategies. Individuals acting on their own behalf may have rudimentary systems that they have created themselves that may not require technological experience or coding knowledge.



There are also trading systems available online that anyone can take advantage of. A Google search for trading systems will result in lists of both free systems and ones that require payment or membership to use.



Institutions will rely on more sophisticated systems. Many will have their own systems designed to be used in house. These systems will be more advanced and offer more options for optimizing than the free ones novice or casual traders can find online.



Whatever system an investor uses, they should use it with the knowledge that data can still report incorrectly, and systems can fail. A trading system is just another tool investors can use when investing; it does not replace the need for critical thinking.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Optimization  

Business optimization is an important element of the market economy. As companies compete against one another to increase profits and reduce costs, they also find ways to provide improved products and lower prices to their consumers. They may also find ways to use resources more efficiently, reduce pollution and other externalities.



In the world of investments, there are few drawbacks to a well-executed optimization. By identifying missed opportunities and eliminating underperforming assets, an optimized portfolio can produce potentially higher investment returns.



However, most optimizations come with tradeoffs and opportunity costs in other areas. For example, a fund that optimizes to reduce its risk profile is also likely to miss out on the payoffs of certain high-risk strategies, and a company that optimizes by reducing labor costs might find itself short-staffed in the event of a sudden increase in demand. When companies try to fine-tune to increasing levels of precision, there is a danger that they may over-optimize by reducing their preparedness for an unexpected eventuality.




Advantages and Disadvantages of Optimization

Pros

Optimization helps businesses reduce costs and increase revenues.
Optimization also benefits the market by reducing deadweight and inefficiencies.



Cons

Optimizing one parameter typically comes with tradeoffs in others.
There is a risk of over-optimization as companies reduce their preparedness for unexpected contingencies.
Changing market conditions might reduce the effectiveness of optimization.





   Example of Optimization  

An interesting example of business optimization occurs in supply chain management, the industry concerned with the large-scale transportation and storage of trade goods around the world. In order to keep operations running smoothly, most industrial enterprises rely upon a large network of logistics providers and suppliers to keep their factories running.



Beginning in the 1970s, companies like Toyota began optimizing their inventory systems with just in-time production. By manufacturing and delivering items as they were needed, this system allowed manufacturers to reduce the costs associated with storage and warehousing.



However, JIT manufacturing requires a fine-tuned logistics system and the ability to accurately forecast future demand. It also comes with tradeoffs in terms of flexibility and resilience. Since there is little room for error, any delay in deliveries could have a compounding effect on the supply chain, potentially causing production to stall.


   The Bottom Line  

Optimization is an important process in maintaining a business or trading system. By adjusting system parameters to reduce costs and maximize output, optimization allows businesses and traders to become more efficient and competitive.




What Is Mathematical Optimization?
Mathematical optimization is a field of applied mathematics that seeks to find a combination of input variables that maximizes or minimizes the output return of a multi-variable function. When used in business, these techniques could be used to fine-tune production processes to minimize certain costs or increase per-unit output.




What Does Optimization Mean in Business?
In business, optimization is the process of fine-tuning a business strategy or process in order to improve efficiency or reduce costs. This can be done by using resources more efficiently, cutting costs, or investing in labor-saving technologies.




What Is Search Engine Optimization?
Search engine optimization, or SEO, is the process of fine-tuning an online article or website in order to reach more potential readers through online search. This is typically done by strategically placing keywords or related phrases in order to rank higher in search engine results.




What Is Conversion Rate Optimization?
In sales, conversion is the process of turning potential leads into customers. Conversion rate optimization is a process of increasing the number of new customers in order to increase sales. This can be done by improved marketing, sales training, or otherwise making their product more appealing.
What Is an Optimized Portfolio As Listed Securities (OPALS)?  

Optimized portfolio as listed securities is a single-country equity index that contains fewer holdings than the benchmarked index. Optimized portfolio as listed securities was created by Morgan Stanley in 1994. It is seen as a predecessor to the popularity of exchange-traded funds.


   Understanding an Optimized Portfolio As Listed Securities (OPALS)  

Optimized portfolios as listed securities are designed to track a single-country index, but they are expected to outperform the index by containing fewer holdings; in other words, by being optimized. The portfolios may be sold before expiration or settled by physical delivery of the underlying shares. The product is designed for cross-border equity investors who cannot use futures efficiently, or cannot use futures for regulatory reasons, and who cannot justify running their own country-by-country equity operation.


   Optimized Portfolio As Listed Securities and Portfolio Optimization  

Portfolio optimization is the process of selecting the best portfolio (asset allocation) out of a set of all possible portfolios being considered to achieve an objective. This process typically attempts to maximize factors such as expected return, while minimizing factors such as expenses, volatility and risk. The optimal portfolio varies and is influenced by each individual investor’s return objectives and risk tolerance.



Portfolio optimization often takes place in two stages: optimizing weights of asset classes and optimizing weights of securities within the same asset class. Optimizing asset class weighting would include decisions like choosing the percentage of a portfolio placed in equities versus bonds or real estate, while an example of the security selection would involve selecting exactly which equities or bonds are held. Holding some of the portfolio in each class provides some diversification, and holding various specific assets within each class affords further diversification.


   Optimized Portfolio As Listed Securities Listings  

Optimized portfolios as listed securities trade on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. They are available for many of the different Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) indices. The portfolios are typically purchased only by large institutional investors. They have a $100 million minimum investment, and they are not registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, so they are generally unavailable to the majority of U.S. investors.



Optimized portfolios as listed securities are often seen as one of several predecessors to the introduction of exchange-traded funds in the United States. Optimized portfolios were introduced on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange because the exchange’s more permissive rules allowed Morgan Stanley to offer the shares to retail investors. In 1996, Morgan Stanley introduced World Equity Benchmark Shares (WEBS). These were SEC-registered units, similar to optimized portfolios as listed securities and available to U.S. retail investors.
What Is Optimum Currency Area (OCA) Theory?  

Optimum currency area theory (OCA) states that specific areas not bounded by national borders would benefit from a common currency. In other words, geographic regions may be better off using the same currency instead of each country within that geographic region using its own currency.





Key Takeaways

Optimum currency area (OCA) theory states that regions that are not bounded by national borders and share certain traits should share a common currency.OCA theory was developed in 1961 by Canadian economist Robert Mundell based on earlier work by Abba Lerner.OCA theory posits that implementing currencies by geographic and geopolitical region, instead of by country, leads to greater economic efficiency.An OCA must meet four criteria to qualify, and some economists suggest a fifth.


   Understanding Optimum Currency Area (OCA) Theory  

Sharing a currency can benefit a geographic region by significantly increasing trade. However, this trade must outweigh the costs of each country giving up a national currency as an instrument to adjust monetary policy. Areas using OCA theory can still maintain a flexible exchange rate system with the rest of the world.



OCA theory was developed in 1961 by Canadian economist Robert Mundell based on earlier work by Abba Lerner. It speculates that there is an optimum geopolitical area that should share a currency, but this geopolitical area doesn’t necessarily correspond with national borders. An optimum currency area could be several nations, parts of several nations, or regions inside a single nation.



According to the theory, a common currency can maximize economic efficiency, provided that the participants meet the following four criteria:



A large, available, and integrated labor market that allows workers to move freely throughout the area and smooth out unemployment in any single zone.
The flexibility of pricing and wages, along with the mobility of capital, to eliminate regional trade imbalances.
A centralized budget or control to redistribute wealth to parts of the area which suffer due to labor and capital mobility. This is a politically difficult one, as wealthy parts of the region may not wish to distribute their surpluses to those that are lacking.
The participating regions have similar business cycles and timing for economic data to avoid a shock in any one area.



Princeton professor and international economist Peter Kenen suggested the adding of a fifth criterion of production diversification within the geopolitical area.


   Special Considerations  

Some economists argue that the United States should be divided into several smaller currency areas, as the country as a whole does not fit the criteria listed in Mundell’s original OCA theory. Economists have calculated that the Southeast and Southwest regions of the United States do not necessarily fit with the rest of the country as an OCA.


   Optimum Currency Area Theory Example  

Many point to the euro as proof of OCA theory in action. However, some argue that the area did not meet the four criteria as laid out by Mundell’s theory at the time of the euro's creation in 1999. This lack of meeting the requirements, they say, is the reason the eurozone has struggled since its inception. 



Indeed, the OCA theory was put to the test in 2010 as sovereign debt issues faced by many heavily indebted nations in Europe threatened the viability of the European Union (EU), placing severe strains upon the euro.



According to Global Financial Integrity, a non-profit located in Washington, D.C., peripheral EU countries such as Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain (PIIGS) experienced slowing growth, lacked international competitiveness, and possessed a labor force that was unproductive.



As these economies slowed, private capital fled, some to stronger eurozone economies, and some to other countries. Also, due to language, culture, and distance difficulties, the labor force in the eurozone is not fluid or mobile. Wages are not uniform across the geopolitical area, either.
What Is an Option Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (Option ARM)?  

An option adjustable-rate mortgage (option ARM) is a type of ARM mortgage where the borrower has several options as to which type of payment is made to the lender. In addition to having the choice of making payments of interest and principal that amounts to those made in conventional mortgages, option ARMs also have alternative payment options where the mortgagor can make significantly smaller payments by making interest-only payments or minimum payments.



An option ARM is also known as a flexible payment ARM.





Key Takeaways

An option ARM is a variation on an adjustable rate mortgage that allows the borrower to select from different payment options each month.These options are typically a 30-year, fully amortizing payment; a 15-year, fully amortizing payment; an interest-only payment, or a so-called minimum payment which did not cover the monthly interest.In order to avoid substantially increasing the amount of debt owed, the borrower must carefully choose the repayment structure they want to adopt with an option ARM. 


   Understanding Option ARMs  

Since many option ARMs offer a low teaser rate, many mortgagors unknowingly refinance their present mortgage in hopes of making lower payments. Unfortunately, once these short-term teaser rates expire, the rates of interest are returned back to those similar to conventional mortgages.



Furthermore, for those unlucky mortgagors that elected to take the minimum payments ARM option, they will find that the principal owed on their mortgage has actually increased. This is because the value of minimum payments did not entirely cover the mortgage's interest. The uncovered interest would then be added to the mortgage's principal.



Option ARMs were popular before the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007-2008, when home prices rose rapidly. The mortgages had a very low introductory teaser interest rate, typically 1 percent, which led many people to assume they could afford more home than their income might suggest. But the teaser rate was only for one month. Then the interest rate reset to an index such as the Wells Cost of Saving Index (COSI) plus a margin, often resulting in “payment shock.” Since 2014 regulations, option ARMs have been less popular


   Ways Option ARMs Are Paid  

In a common scenario, the lender may let the borrower with an option ARM decide each month what type of payment they want to make. These choices can include making a minimum payment, making an interest-only payment, making a fully amortized payment on a 15-year mortgage, or making an amortized payment on a 30-year mortgage.






The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) effectively eliminated Option ARMs in 2014 via new Qualified Mortgage (QM) standards.



While the choices available with an option ARM allow for more flexibility on payments, the borrower could easily be saddled with more long-term debt than they started with. As with other adjustable-rate mortgages, there is the possibility of interest rates changing drastically and rapidly based on the market.



An option ARM may appeal to households where income can fluctuate, such as with professions who operate on commission, contract, or as freelancers. If they do not see as much work come their way, choosing to pay the minimum on a mortgage. Although this may allow them to keep more money in hand, the minimum amount can increase annually. Furthermore, the minimum payment might be recast at five or 10-year intervals to a fully amortizing payment.



These caveats may go overlooked by borrowers, which may leave them unprepared for the potential rising costs and increasing principal balance. If the borrower continues to make just the minimum payment and the unpaid balance grows to exceed the original value of the mortgage, say 110% or more, then the mortgage could automatically reset.



Option ARMs have been cited as contributors to the housing crisis that developed after borrowers sought such financing for homes they could not afford to pay off. In those instances, borrowers paid just the minimum amount due each month with an option ARM, then eventually found themselves unable to pay for their homes or the mortgage grew large while the sale value of the home fell.
What Is Option-Adjusted Spread (OAS)?  

The option-adjusted spread (OAS) is the measurement of the spread of a fixed-income security rate and the risk-free rate of return, which is then adjusted to take into account an embedded option. Typically, an analyst uses Treasury yields for the risk-free rate. The spread is added to the fixed-income security price to make the risk-free bond price the same as the bond.





Key Takeaways

The option-adjusted spread (OAS) measures the difference in yield between a bond with an embedded option, such as an MBS or callables, with the yield on Treasuries.Embedded options are provisions included with some fixed-income securities that allow the investor or the issuer to do specific actions, such as calling back the issue.Using historical data and volatility modeling, OAS considers how a bond's embedded option can change the future cash flows and thus the overall value of the bond.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Option-Adjusted Spread (OAS)  

The option-adjusted spread helps investors compare a fixed-income security’s cash flows to reference rates while also valuing embedded options against general market volatility. By separately analyzing the security into a bond and the embedded option, analysts can determine whether the investment is worthwhile at a given price. The OAS method is more accurate than simply comparing a bond’s yield to maturity to a benchmark.



The option-adjusted spread considers historical data as the variability of interest rates and prepayment rates. These factors' calculations are complex since they attempt to model future changes in interest rates, prepayment behavior of mortgage borrowers, and the probability of early redemption. More advanced statistical modeling methods such as Monte Carlo analysis are often used to predict prepayment probabilities.


   Options and Volatility  

A bond's yield to maturity (YTM) is the yield on a benchmark security, which can be a Treasury security with a similar maturity plus a premium or spread above the risk-free rate to compensate investors for the added risk.



The analysis gets more complicated when a bond has embedded options. These are call options, which give the issuer the right to redeem the bond prior to maturity at a preset price, and put options that allow the holder to sell the bond back to the company on certain dates. The OAS adjusts the spread in order to account for the potential changing cash flows.



The OAS takes into account two types of volatility facing fixed-income investments with embedded options: changing interest rates, which affect all bonds, and prepayment risk. The shortfall of this approach is that estimates are based on historical data but are used in a forward-looking model. For example, prepayment is typically estimated from historical data and does not take into account economic shifts or other changes that might occur in the future.


   OAS vs. Z-Spread  

The OAS should not be confused with a Z-spread. The Z-spread is the constant spread that makes the bond's price equal to the present value of its cash flow along each point along the Treasury curve. However, it does not include the value of the embedded options, which can have a big impact on the present value. The Z-spread is also known as the static spread because of the consistent feature.



The OAS effectively adjusts the Z-spread to include the value of the embedded option. It is, therefore, a dynamic pricing model that is highly dependent on the model being used. Also, it allows for the comparison using the market interest rate and the possibility of the bond being called early—known as prepayment risk.


   Example: Mortgage-Backed Securities  

As an example, mortgage-backed securities (MBS) often have embedded options due to the prepayment risk associated with the underlying mortgages. As such, the embedded option can have a significant impact on the future cash flows and the present value of the MBS. OAS is therefore particularly useful in the valuation of mortgage-backed securities. In this sense, the prepayment risk is the risk that the property owner may pay back the value of the mortgage before it is due. This risk increases as interest rates fall. A larger OAS implies a greater return for greater risks.
What Is an Options Contract?  

An options contract is an agreement between two parties to facilitate a potential transaction on an underlying security at a preset price, referred to as the strike price, prior to or on the expiration date.





Key Takeaways

An options contract is an agreement between two parties to facilitate a potential transaction involving an asset at a preset price and date.Call options can be purchased as a leveraged bet on the appreciation of an asset, while put options are purchased to profit from price declines.Buying an option offers the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell the underlying asset.For stock options, a single contract covers 100 shares of the underlying stock.


   Understanding an Options Contract  

Options are financial instruments that are based on the value of underlying securities such as stocks. An options contract offers the buyer the opportunity to buy or sell—depending on the type of contract they hold—the chosen underlying asset at a price set out in the contract either within a certain timeframe or at the expiration date.






American options can be exercised any time before the expiration date of the option, while European options can only be exercised on the expiration date or the exercise date.



The terms of an option contract specify the underlying security, the price at which that security can be transacted (strike price), and the expiration date of the contract. In the case of stocks, a standard contract covers 100 shares, but the share amount may be adjusted for stock splits, special dividends, or mergers.



Options are generally used for hedging purposes but can be used for speculation, too. Options generally cost a fraction of what the underlying shares would. Using options is a form of leverage, allowing an investor to make a bet on a stock without having to purchase or sell the shares outright. In exchange for this privilege, the options buyer pays a premium to the party selling the option.


   Types of Options Contract  

There are two types of options contract: puts and calls. Both can be purchased to speculate on the direction of the security or hedge exposure. They can also be sold to generate income.



In general, call options can be purchased as a leveraged bet on the appreciation of a stock or index, while put options are purchased to profit from price declines. The buyer of a call option has the right, but not the obligation, to buy the number of shares covered in the contract at the strike price. Put buyers, on the other hand, have the right, but not the obligation, to sell the shares at the strike price specified in the contract.



Option sellers, also known as writers, are obligated to transact their side of the trade if a buyer decides to execute a call option to buy the underlying security or execute a put option to sell.



Call Option Contract: In a call option transaction, a position is opened when a contract or contracts are purchased from the seller. In the transaction, the seller is paid a premium to assume the obligation of selling shares at the strike price. If the seller holds the shares to be sold, the position is referred to as a covered call.
Put Option Contract: Buyers of put options are speculating on price declines of the underlying stock or index and own the right to sell the shares at the strike price specified in the contract. If the share price drops below the strike price prior to or at expiration, the buyer can either assign shares to the seller for purchase at the strike price or sell the contract if the shares are not held in the portfolio.


   Example of an Options Contract  

Company ABC's shares trade at $60, and a call writer is looking to sell calls at $65 with a one-month expiration. If the share price stays below $65 and the options expire, the call writer keeps the shares and can collect another premium by writing calls again.



If, however, the share price appreciates to a price above $65, referred to as being in-the-money (ITM), the buyer calls the shares from the seller, purchasing them at $65. The call-buyer can also sell the options if purchasing the shares is not the desired outcome.
What Is an Options Chain?  

An options chain, also known as an options matrix, is a listing of all available options contracts for a given security. It shows all listed puts, calls, their expiration, strike prices, and volume and pricing information for a single underlying asset within a given maturity period. The chain will typically be categorized by expiration date and segmented by calls vs. puts.



An options chain provides detailed quote and price information and should not be confused with an options series or cycle, which instead simply denotes the available strike prices or expiration dates.





Key Takeaways

An options chain is a table displaying options quotes for a particular underlying security.The options chain matrix is updated in real-time showing the last price, trading volume, and best bid and offer for the calls and puts of an options series, typically segmented by expiration date.An option's strike price is also listed, which is the stock price at which the investor buys the stock if the option is exercised.


   Understanding Option Chains  

Option chains are probably the most natural form of presenting information for retail investors. The option quotes are listed in an easy-to-understand sequence. Traders can find an option premium by following the corresponding maturity dates and strike prices. Depending on the presentation of the data, bid-ask quotes, or mid-quotes, are also displayable within an option chain.



The majority of online brokers and stock trading platforms display option quotes in the form of an option chain using real-time or delayed data. The chain display allows quick scanning of activity, open interest, and price changes. Traders can hone in on the specific options required to meet a particular options strategy.



Traders may quickly find an asset's trading activity, including the frequency, volume of trading, and interest by strike price and maturity months. Sorting of data may be by expiration date, soonest to furthest, and then further refined by strike price, from lowest to highest.


   Decoding the Option Chain Matrix  

The terms in an options matrix are relatively self-explanatory. A skilled user can quickly decipher the market regarding price movements and where high and low levels of liquidity occur. For efficient trade executions and profitability, this is critical information.



There are four columns of information that traders focus on to assess current market conditions. The columns are Last Price, Net Change, Bid, and Ask. 



The last price column displays the latest trade price captured and reported. 
Information in the net change column reflects the direction (up, down, or flat) for the underlying asset, as well as the amount of price variance from the previous trade. 
The review of the bid column shows information about how much a trader could expect to receive on the sale of that option at that time-frame. 
Information about how much the trader can expect to pay to purchase that option at that time appears in the ask column.















Call Option Chain for Apple Inc. (AAPL). Source: Yahoo! Finance.
 Yahoo!Finance



In the columns following the four listed above, you will find important information to gauge market size for a given option and how traders are committed at each price level.



Trading volume, or the number of contracts that change hands in a given day, indicates how much liquidity there might be for any given option. Open interest, meanwhile, measures the total number of options outstanding on each strike and maturity, allowing you to gauge the scale of market commitment. 



The real level of open interest varies intraday. Market makers report the information shown in the option chain only at the end of each trading day. The option chain matrix is most useful for the next trading day.
What Is an Option Class?  

An option class refers to all the call options or all the put options listed on an exchange for a particular underlying asset. For example, all the calls available for trade on Apple Inc. (AAPL) stock would be part of the same options class. All the puts listed on Apple would be part of another, related class.



The number of options available for purchase or sale within a given option class will depend on the size and trading volume of the underlying asset, as well as overall market conditions.





Key Takeaways

An option class is comprised of all of the same type of option (i.e., either calls or puts) listed on the same underlying security.An option class can be broken down into subsets called options series, which are all the calls or puts for an underlying asset that expire in the same month.An option chain instead includes both all the calls and all the puts listed on some security.How large the option class is depends on the volume of the underlying asset and the market conditions of both the underlying and the underlying's options market.


   Understanding Option Classes  

Option classes are used to categorize options on an exchange for investors. All major public market exchanges use option classes to list the option available for trade on a given underlying asset. Quite often exchanges and financial sites will break the class up into series. An option series is all the calls or puts for various strike prices and with the same expiry for a given underlying asset.



For example, all the calls or puts that expire in June would be an option series. An option series is a part of the larger option class. Therefore, when viewing options quotes, some sites may show the entire option class, but quite often it will be sorted by expiry date (series).


  Options Across the Market  

Other markets, such as over-the-counter (OTC) or institutional markets may not always use option classes because of the complexity and customized structuring of the options being traded.



Just like with stocks, exchange-traded options must be traded through a broker who connects with market makers to help facilitate trading. Option exchanges use standard bid-ask pricing models. While option prices are generated from advanced analytics, their daily trading prices are still influenced by supply and demand in the market.



Broker-dealers generally require a minimum of $2,000 in capital for approval of an options trading account. Rules and regulations for options trading are overseen by the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC).






An option chain contains all the put and call options for a given underlying asset.


   Special Considerations  

Generally, once access to an options trading platform is established, investors will be able to view the full listing of option classes for their preferred underlying security. Options are usually listed and classified by the ticker on the instrument’s underlying asset.



An options brokerage trading platform will segregate calls and puts on underlying securities. Calls and puts are usually the two broadest option classes available. Within each of these classes, investors will find a list of available strike prices and expirations.



The amount of information provided on each option class will typically be based on an investor’s subscription preferences. Some options quotes include advanced analytics such as greeks, while other platforms/subscriptions may only show the basic contract name, strike, expiry, bid, ask, last price, last trade time/date, percent change, volume, open interest, and often implied volatility is included as well.


   Real-World Example of an Option Class  

Some option classes are large, while others are relatively small depending on how popular the options market is for a given underlying asset.



For example, all the calls available for trade on the SPDR S&P 500 Trust (SPY) number in the hundreds.



On the other hand, the option class for Barnes Group Inc. (B) was relatively small as of June 2019, with several options available for trade with two available expiry dates. At the time, the stock was trading at $54.46.















Call Option Class and Put Option Class For Barnes Group.
Yahoo! Finance



All the calls above represent the call option class for this stock, while the puts represent the put option class for this stock at the time of writing. Option classes can grow or shrink depending on whether more or fewer options become available due to increased or decreased interest.
What Is an Option Cycle?  

Option cycle refers to the expiration dates that apply to the different classes of options. A newly listed option is assigned a cycle randomly to broadly distribute options across varying time frames. It is also known as an expiration cycle.



With a few exceptions that have contracts every month, most equity options are set up on one of three cycles. Knowing which cycle an option is on tells you when the option can expire if not exercised.





Key Takeaways

An option cycle is the set of months on which a company's quarterly options expire.One of three cycle assignments is assigned to most options series at the time the stock is listed.Option volume and open interest are typically greater on those options that expire on the dates of the assigned option cycle.


   How an Option Cycle Works  

An option cycle refers to the cycle of months available for a listed option class. Option cycles are integrated across all of the options and futures markets. Cycles are regulated by regulatory authorities. An investor will typically view available options by option class. An option class is a grouping of calls or puts available on a security.



Option classes are separated by calls and puts. They are also categorized by strike price and listed sequentially by expiration.


   Option Cycle Assignments  

Options are assigned to one of three cycles at their listing. Originally cycles were divided by four months. In 1984 regulatory authorities decided that a listed option should have the two front months available for its investors. This changed the listing of options to include the first two front months followed by the next two months in the cycle.



There are three option cycles that a listed option can be assigned to on the public markets:



JAJO - January, April, July, and OctoberFMAN - February, May, August, and NovemberMJSD - March, June, September, and December



Note that the options on the January cycle have contracts available in the first month of each quarter (January, April, July, and October). Options assigned to the February cycle use the middle month of each quarter (February, May, August, and November). Options in the March cycle have options available during the last month of each quarter (March, June, September, and December).



Investors seeking to invest in an option will find the first two front months followed by the two remaining cycle months. This provides the opportunity for investors to trade or hedge for shorter terms as well as buy longer-term contracts.


   Special Considerations  

It should be noted that nowadays the cycle is less important for heavily traded stocks and index-tracking exchange-traded funds because of the publication of weekly options. Since weekly options are available to be traded, an investor that wants to extend their expiration date can roll a quarterly option to any given week of the year.



It is also important for investors to understand what happens to a cycle when a month passes. Each cycle will always have the two front months available. After a month passes the last two remaining months continue to follow the originally assigned cycle. For example, in February the cycle one option availability would be February, March, April, July. In June, the cycle one option availability would be June, July, October, January.



Overall, for an investor to understand which cycle an option is trading in, it is necessary to look at the third and fourth months. Generally, all options will expire at 4:00 PM Eastern Time on the third Friday of their expiration month.


   Less Common Expiration Cycles  

Some options may have contracts in every month of the year, but this is usually reserved for highly liquid underlying securities, such as exchange-traded funds (ETFs) on the S&P 500 and other index funds. Options such as these are often used to hedge a portfolio and, because they represent a basket of stocks, the security underlying the option is more stable. The strike prices, or target prices, tend to hold up better as a result, so it makes sense to have more and more frequent expiration date possibilities.



Long Term Equity Anticipation Securities (LEAPS) are options for much longer terms, and as such, they expire every year in January, at least one year after purchase. They are otherwise the same as other securities options and are available on thousands of equities and a select group of index funds as either calls or puts. The only difference between LEAPS and regular options is the length of time before they expire.
What Is an Options Disclosure Document (ODD)?  

The options disclosure document (ODD) is a publication issued by the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) that serves as an important guide for options traders. The comprehensive document—formally titled Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options—is particularly essential for novice options traders.



Options are financial derivatives based on the value of underlying securities such as stocks. Options give investors the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed-upon price within a specific time frame.



The ODD booklet includes definitions for the most common options trading terms and useful examples illustrating various trading scenarios. It provides general disclosures on the risks of trading options. Both the Securities Exchange Act and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) require brokers and brokerage firms to deliver the options disclosure document and its supplements to customers.





Key Takeaways


The Options Clearing Corporation is responsible for issuing the options disclosure document and its supplements.
In 1994, the OCC distributed the first options disclosure document, which provides investors with important educational information regarding options trading.
The booklet covers topics important to options investors such as options definitions, index options, debt options, foreign currency options, and risks of options trading.
Investors can obtain copies of the booklet and supplements through their broker or online at the OCC's website.



   Understanding the Options Disclosure Document (ODD)  

Founded in 1973, the OCC clears transactions for exchange-listed options, securities futures, and over-the-counter options. As the world's largest equity derivatives clearinghouse, the OCC operates under the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In February 1994, the OCC distributed the first edition of the options disclosure document (ODD). Chapter headings in the latest version include:



Options Nomenclature
Options on Equity Securities
Index Options
Debt Options and Credit Default Options
Foreign Currency Options
Flexibly Structured Options
Exercise and Settlement
Tax Considerations, Transaction Costs, and Margin Requirements
Principal Risks of Options Positions



Starting in December 1997, the Options Clearing Corporation began issuing supplements to the ODD booklet. These supplements provided new information, amended previously published information, and clarified concepts to accommodate the growing complexity of options products.



The most recent ODD update, in March 2022, included supplemental material noting index products contracts may have a multiplier other than 100 as established by the listing exchange, and included the latest corrections to chapter subtitles in the original.



In March 2022, OCC said it will publish future changes to the ODD as updates of the entire document rather than supplements.





9.93 Billion

The total number of contracts cleared by the OCC in 2021. This includes equity and index options, as well as futures contracts.


   Requirements for Options Disclosure Document (ODD)  

Because the ODD is considered a key publication in helping investors understand the complexities of options trading, there are rules to ensure each investor has ready access to the document.



The SEC is responsible for approving supplements to the options disclosure document. Brokers are required to deliver the ODD and supplements to their customers, according to Rule 9b-1 of the Securities Exchange Act. FINRA has its own rule requiring brokers to supply their customers with the most current ODD. This must occur by the time the broker approves the customer to trade options.



Additionally, FINRA requires brokers to distribute each new ODD supplement to customers who have already received the ODD. Firms may mail the ODD and supplements to customers or transmit them electronically to those who have consented to electronic delivery.






You can find the latest version of the ODD booklet as a PDF download on the Options Clearing Corporation's website.


   Special Considerations  

Aside from the basic description of various option types, perhaps the most important section of the ODD is the "Principal Risks of Options Positions." Someone new to the options markets would be wise to carefully read this section, which goes over the main risks of each of the option types discussed in the document and provides some examples of how a trader might lose money. Even a seasoned trader would find the document useful for reminders. The section on the risks of owning options starts with this blunt warning: "An option holder runs the risk of losing the entire amount paid for the option in a relatively short period of time."



The ODD goes on to explain other options trading risks, including the risks assumed by option writers, risks of combination transactions (such as option spreads), risks occurring from the disruption in the markets of underlying assets, and the special risks of index options.
What is Option Margin  

Option margin is the cash or securities an investor must deposit in their account as collateral before writing—or selling—options. Margin requirements are established by the Federal Reserve Board in Regulation T and vary based on the type of option.





Key Takeaways

Options margins are the cash or security that traders must submit to the broker as collateral before writing or selling options.Option margins are typically based on the Federal Reserve's Regulation T and vary based on option.


   Basics of Option Margin  

Option margin requirements are very complex and differ quite a bit from stocks or futures margin requirements. In the case of stocks and futures, a margin is used as leverage to increase buying power, whereas an option margin is used as collateral to secure a position.



Minimum margin requirements for various types of underlying securities are established by FINRA and the options exchanges. Brokers may have very different margin requirements since they can add to the minimum requirements set by regulators. Some option strategies, such as covered calls and covered puts, have no margin requirement since the underlying stock is used as collateral.



Traders must request options trading authorization when opening a new account. Often, brokers will classify options trading clearance levels depending on the type of strategies employed. Buying options is typically a Level I clearance since it doesn't require margin, but selling naked puts may require Level II clearances and a margin account. Level III and IV accounts often have lower margin requirements.



Option margin requirements can have a significant impact on the profitability of a trade since it ties up capital. Complex strategies, such as strangles and straddles, may involve computing multiple margin requirements. Traders should determine the margin requirements for a trade before entering into it and make sure that they can meet those requirements if the market turns against them.


   How to Avoid Option Margin Requirements  

Certain option positions do not require margins. For example, there are no margin requirements for long options, whether they are puts or calls. In other instances, traders can use several different strategies to avoid option margin requirements.



Covered Calls and Covered Puts: Covered calls and covered puts involve owning the underlying stock, which is used as collateral in the option position. For example, if you own 500 shares of QQQ, you can sell to open five contracts of QQQ call options without any margin.
Debit Spreads: Debit spreads involve buying in-the-money options and selling out-of-the-money options. In this case, the right to exercise the long option at a more favorable strike price offsets the obligation to sell at the less favorable strike price, which means that no margin is required.


   Calculating Option Margin Requirements  

The easiest way to calculate option margin requirements is using the Chicago Board of Options Exchange (CBOE) Margin Calculator that provides exact margin requirements for specific trades. Traders can also see the minimum requirements in the CBOE's Margin Manual. Brokerage accounts may have similar tools available to provide an idea of the cost before entering into a trade.
What Is an Option Pool?  

An option pool consists of shares of stock reserved for employees of a private company. The option pool is a way of attracting talented employees to a startup company—if the employees help the company do well enough to go public, they will be compensated with stock. Employees who get into the startup early will usually receive a greater percentage of the option pool than employees who arrive later.



The initial size of the option pool may decrease with subsequent rounds of funding because of investors' ownership demands. The creation of an option pool will commonly dilute the founders' share in the company because investors (angels and venture capitalists) often insist on it.





Key Takeaways

An option pool refers to a block of company equity that has been reserved for early investors or employees of a start-up company.The option pool is used to attract capital or talent when a company is growing and not yet producing enough revenue or cash flows to be viable without that investment or employment.Option pools can range from 15–25% of initial equity, but the availability of an option pool will tend to dilute the shareholdings of founders and early investors or employees over time.


   How Option Pools Are Structured  

The shares that comprise an option pool typically are drawn from founder stock in the company rather than the shares earmarked for investors. This may be 15%–25% of the overall outstanding shares and may be determined when the startup receives its earliest funding round as part of the overall terms put in place.



It is also possible that a company, over the course of its development and subsequent funding rounds, may establish additional option pools after the initial one is put in place. The size of the pool may be dictated or advised by the venture backers to be a portion of the pre-money or post-money valuation of the company. Negotiations over the scope of the option pool can affect the startup’s overall price. For example, investors may want an option pool offered post-money option to be priced at the pre-money valuation, which could lower the price for the company.


   Other Considerations  

The shares disbursed from the option pool may be determined by the roles of the employees as well as when they are hired. For example, senior management that is brought on board near the founding of the startup may receive a percentage of the entire pool, whereas later employees in more junior roles might be granted just fractions of a percent.



The option pool grants shares that, like other types of stock options, often require a period of time before they are vested. This means the employee will not be able to benefit from these shares possibly for several years. By delaying their ability to reap monetary value from their portion of the option pool, the belief is that the employee will contribute more to the overall health and growth of the company in order to see the greatest possible gains when the shares vest.
What Is an Option Premium?  

An option premium is the current market price of an option contract. It is thus the income received by the seller (writer) of an option contract to another party. In-the-money option premiums are composed of two factors: intrinsic and extrinsic value. Out-of-the-money options premiums consist solely of extrinsic value.



For stock options, the premium is quoted as a dollar amount per share, and most contracts represent the commitment of 100 shares.





Key Takeaways

The premium on an option is its price in the market.Option premium will consist of extrinsic, or time value for out-of-the-money contracts and both intrinsic and extrinsic value for in-the-money options.An option's premium will generally be greater given more time to expiration or greater implied volatility.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Option Premium  

Investors who write, which means to sell in this case, calls or puts use option premiums as a source of current income in line with a broader investment strategy to hedge all or a portion of a portfolio. Option prices quoted on an exchange, such as the Cboe Options Exchange (Cboe), are considered premiums as a rule because the options themselves have no underlying value.



The components of an option premium include its intrinsic value, its time value and the implied volatility of the underlying asset. As the option nears its expiration date, the time value will edge closer and closer to $0, while the intrinsic value will closely represent the difference between the underlying security's price and the strike price of the contract.


   Factors of Option Premium  

The main factors affecting an option's price are the underlying security's price, moneyness, useful life of the option, and implied volatility. As the price of the underlying security changes, the option premium changes. As the underlying security's price increases, the premium of a call option increases, but the premium of a put option decreases. As the underlying security's price decreases, the premium of a put option increases, and the opposite is true for call options.



The moneyness affects the option's premium because it indicates how far away the underlying security price is from the specified strike price. As an option becomes further in-the-money, the option's premium normally increases. Conversely, the option premium decreases as the option becomes further out-of-the-money. For example, as an option becomes further out-of-the-money, the option premium loses intrinsic value, and the value stems primarily from the time value.



The time until expiration, or the useful life, affects the time value portion of the option's premium. As the option approaches its expiration date, the option's premium stems mainly from the intrinsic value. For example, deep out-of-the-money options that are expiring in one trading day would normally be worth $0, or very close to $0.


   Implied Volatility and Option Price  

Implied volatility is derived from the option's price, which is plugged into an option's pricing model to indicate how volatile a stock's price may be in the future. Moreover, it affects the extrinsic value portion of option premiums. If investors are long options, an increase in implied volatility would add to the value. This is because the greater the volatility of the underlying asset, the more chances the option has of finishing in-the-money. The opposite is true if implied volatility decreases.



For example, assume an investor is long one call option with an annualized implied volatility of 20%. Therefore, if the implied volatility increases to 50% during the option's life, the call option premium would appreciate in value. An option's vega is its change in premium given a 1% change in implied volatility.
What Is Option Pricing Theory?  

Option pricing theory estimates a value of an options contract by assigning a price, known as a premium, based on the calculated probability that the contract will finish in the money (ITM) at expiration. Essentially, option pricing theory provides an evaluation of an option's fair value, which traders incorporate into their strategies.



Models used to price options account for variables such as current market price, strike price, volatility, interest rate, and time to expiration to theoretically value an option. Some commonly used models to value options are Black-Scholes, binomial option pricing, and Monte-Carlo simulation.





Key Takeaways

Option pricing theory is a probabilistic approach to assigning a value to an options contract.The primary goal of option pricing theory is to calculate the probability that an option will be exercised, or be in-the-money (ITM), at expiration.Increasing an option's maturity or implied volatility will increase the price of the option, holding all else constant.Some commonly used models to price options include the Black-Scholes model, binomial tree, and Monte-Carlo simulation method.


   Understanding Option Pricing Theory  

The primary goal of option pricing theory is to calculate the probability that an option will be exercised, or be ITM, at expiration and assign a dollar value to it. The underlying asset price (e.g., a stock price), exercise price, volatility, interest rate, and time to expiration, which is the number of days between the calculation date and the option's exercise date, are commonly-employed variables that are input into mathematical models to derive an option's theoretical fair value.



Options pricing theory also derives various risk factors or sensitivities based on those inputs, which are known as an option's "Greeks". Since market conditions are constantly changing, the Greeks provide traders with a means of determining how sensitive a specific trade is to price fluctuations, volatility fluctuations, and the passage of time.






The greater the chances that the option will finish ITM and be profitable, the greater the value of the option, and vice-versa.



The longer that an investor has to exercise the option, the greater the likelihood that it will be ITM and profitable at expiration. This means, all else equal, longer-dated options are more valuable. Similarly, the more volatile the underlying asset, the greater the odds that it will expire ITM. Higher interest rates, too, should translate into higher option prices.


   Special Considerations  

Marketable options require different valuation methods than non-marketable options. Real traded options prices are determined in the open market and, as with all assets, the value can differ from a theoretical value. However, having the theoretical value allows traders to assess the likelihood of profiting from trading those options.



The evolution of the modern-day options market is attributed to the 1973 pricing model published by Fischer Black and Myron Scholes. The Black-Scholes formula is used to derive a theoretical price for financial instruments with a known expiration date. However, this is not the only model. The Cox, Ross, and Rubinstein binomial option pricing model and Monte-Carlo simulation are also widely used.


   Using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Theory  

The original Black-Scholes model required five input variables—the strike price of an option, the current price of the stock, time to expiration, the risk-free rate of return, and volatility. Direct observation of future volatility is impossible, so it must be estimated or implied. Thus, implied volatility is not the same as historical or realized volatility.






For many options on stocks, dividends are often used as a sixth input.



The Black-Scholes model, one of the most highly regarded pricing models, assumes stock prices follow a log-normal distribution because asset prices cannot be negative. Other assumptions made by the model are that there are no transaction costs or taxes, that the risk-free interest rate is constant for all maturities, that short selling of securities with the use of proceeds is permitted, and that there are no arbitrage opportunities without risk.



Clearly, some of these assumptions do not hold true all or even most of the time. For example, the model also assumes volatility remains constant over the option's lifespan. This is unrealistic, and normally not the case, because volatility fluctuates with the level of supply and demand.



Modifications to options pricing models will therefore include volatility skew, which refers to the shape of implied volatilities for options graphed across the range of strike prices for options with the same expiration date. The resulting shape often shows a skew or "smile" where the implied volatility values for options further out of the money (OTM) are higher than for those at the strike price closer to the price of the underlying instrument.



Additionally, Black-Scholes assumes that the options being priced are European style, executable only at maturity. The model does not take into account the execution of American style options, which can be exercised at any time before, and including the day of, expiration. On the other hand, the binomial or trinomial models can handle both styles of options because they can check for the option's value at every point in time during its life.
What Is an Option Series?  

An option series refers to a grouping of options on an underlying security with the same specified strike price and the same expiration month. However, call and put options are parts of separate series. For example, a call option series would include the available calls on a specific security at a certain strike price that will expire in the same month.





Key Takeaways

An option series refers to a grouping of options on a given underlying security with the same specified strike price and the same expiration month.Since option series contain calls or puts on the same security at the same price that expire at the same time, their prices should be extremely similar.An investor will find multiple option series listings within an option class, which refers to the option’s designation as either a call or a put.Option series offer many ways for traders to make money.


   Understanding Option Series  

Since option series contain calls or puts on the same security at the same price that expire at the same time, their prices should be extremely similar. For example, all January 20, 2023 calls on Apple with a strike price of $150 should cost about the same amount. However, options are highly volatile and suffer from liquidity issues, which can create opportunities for traders. The actual prices observed on options sometimes differ significantly from values given by the Black Scholes model.






Although there are many deviations of real option prices from their theoretical values, most of these opportunities are too small for individual investors to make significant profits.



An investor will find multiple option series listings within a designated option class. An option class refers to the option's designation as either a call or a put. Generally, most options exchanges will list options by class. Therefore, an investor seeking to buy call options on an underlying security would see a long list of call option series listings, each with their own individual strike price and expiration. Similarly, an investor seeking put options on an underlying security would first look to the put option class for all of the series listings at different strike prices and expiration dates.



All option series are also part of option cycles. For instance, XYZ Company may have a call option with a strike price of $110. When the option is listed, it can be assigned one of three cycles:



Cycle one: JAJO — January, April, July, and OctoberCycle two: FMAN — February, May, August, and NovemberCycle three: MJSD — March, June, September, and December



Exchange-traded options follow their designated cycle, with listings available for the first two months followed by the next two months for their cycle. If the XYZ $110 call is a cycle three, then in January it would have the following listings: XYZ 110 Jan, XYZ 110 Feb, XYZ 110 March, XYZ 110 June. Each listing would be considered an individual option series with the four option offerings representing the option cycle. Most exchange-traded option series listings will expire on the third Friday of their listed expiration month.



Option series trades on regulated exchanges are supported by a third party, which fulfills options contracts when defaults occur. Thus, options investors need not worry too much about counterparty risk with publicly traded options. This third party will step in to cover their positions in the event of a potential counterparty default. The Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) is perhaps the best known third party that guarantees options.


   Special Considerations  

Option series offer many ways for traders to make money. Option series contain options contracts, which cover 100 shares of the underlying security. However, options can be traded in larger collections of contracts. Like stocks and most other goods, there are price disparities when buying or selling in bulk versus small amounts. Arbitrageurs can take advantage of the resulting price difference to profit.



There are also times when the prices of options drift far from where economic theory says they should be. When the market is unstable, anomalies like volatility smile become more pronounced and create more chances to make profits. By understanding how options are priced, traders can take better advantage of deviations in prices within option series.
What Is Optionable Stock?  

An optionable stock is one where the shares have the necessary liquidity and volume such that an exchange lists that stock's options for trading. In order for a stock to be optionable, exchanges mandate that certain criteria be met, including a minimum share price, number of shares outstanding, and minimum unique shareholders, among others.





Key Takeaways

An optionable stock is one that has listed options on it available to trade.In order for a stock to be optionable, it must meet the minimum criteria established by exchanges.Currently, there are almost 6,000 companies with optionable stocks, as well as several hundred more exchange-traded funds (ETFs) with listed options.If a stock is not optionable, it is more difficult to hedge positions in that stock, which makes it harder to mitigate the risks involved.


   Understanding Optionable Stocks  

An optionable stock is one that has options listed and tradable on a market exchange. Not all companies that trade publicly on stock markets have exchange-traded options. This is due in part to certain minimum requirements that need to be met, such as a minimum share price and minimum amount of outstanding shares.



Currently, there are almost 6,000 companies with optionable stocks, as well as several hundred more exchange-traded funds (ETFs) with listed options. A stock being optionable allows investors to purchase options on the underlying stock, giving them the right to buy or sell shares of that underlying stock at a set price.



If a stock is not optionable, it is more difficult to hedge positions in that stock, which makes it harder to mitigate the risks involved. For stocks like these, an investor can arrange for an over-the-counter (OTC) options contract to be written with their broker-dealer.



It is quite easy these days to look up online if a stock has listed options on it or not. The easiest way to check whether a stock is optionable is to go to the Cboe Options Exchange website and check whether there are options listed for a particular stock.


   Requirements for Stock to Be Optionable  

In order to have options listed for a stock, it must meet certain criteria. Under current Cboe rules, there are five primary criteria that a company must meet before options on its stock can be traded on the options exchange:



The underlying equity security must be listed on a recognized exchange such as the NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq. It cannot trade over the counter, such as on the pink sheets or a bulletin board, like over-the-counter-bulletin-board (OTCBB).
The closing price of the company's shares in the market must have a minimum per-share price for a majority of trading days during the three prior calendar months. The current minimum price is $3.00 per share for "covered securities" or $7.50 per share for non-covered securities.
There must exist a minimum of 7,000,000 shares of the underlying security that are owned by persons other than those required to report their stock holdings under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The company must have at least 2,000 unique shareholders.
The trading volume (in all markets in which the underlying security is traded) has been, on average, at least 2,400,000 shares in the preceding 12 months.



If a company does not meet any one of these criteria, options exchanges, like the Cboe, will not allow any options to be traded on the underlying security. Additionally, because of the second condition listed above, a company cannot have options traded on it until at least three months after its initial public offering (IPO) date.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   What Is an Option?  

The term option refers to a financial instrument that is based on the value of underlying securities such as stocks, indexes, and exchange traded funds (ETFs). An options contract offers the buyer the opportunity to buy or sell—depending on the type of contract they hold—the underlying asset. Unlike futures, the holder is not required to buy or sell the asset if they decide against it.



Each options contract will have a specific expiration date by which the holder must exercise their option. The stated price on an option is known as the strike price. Options are typically bought and sold through online or retail brokers.





Key Takeaways

Options are financial derivatives that give buyers the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed-upon price and date.Call options and put options form the basis for a wide range of option strategies designed for hedging, income, or speculation.Options trading can be used for both hedging and speculation, with strategies ranging from simple to complex.Although there are many opportunities to profit with options, investors should carefully weigh the risks.


   Understanding Options  

Options are versatile financial products. These contracts involve a buyer and seller, where the buyer pays a premium for the rights granted by the contract. Call options allow the holder to buy the asset at a stated price within a specific timeframe. Put options, on the other hand, allow the holder to sell the asset at a stated price within a specific timeframe. Each call option has a bullish buyer and a bearish seller while put options have a bearish buyer and a bullish seller.



Traders and investors buy and sell options for several reasons. Options speculation allows a trader to hold a leveraged position in an asset at a lower cost than buying shares of the asset. Investors use options to hedge or reduce the risk exposure of their portfolios.



In some cases, the option holder can generate income when they buy call options or become an options writer. Options are also one of the most direct ways to invest in oil. For options traders, an option's daily trading volume and open interest are the two key numbers to watch in order to make the most well-informed investment decisions.



American options can be exercised any time before the expiration date of the option, while European options can only be exercised on the expiration date or the exercise date. Exercising means utilizing the right to buy or sell the underlying security.


   Types of Options  
  Calls  

A call option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy the underlying security at the strike price on or before expiration. A call option will therefore become more valuable as the underlying security rises in price (calls have a positive delta).



A long call can be used to speculate on the price of the underlying rising, since it has unlimited upside potential but the maximum loss is the premium (price) paid for the option.


  Puts  

Opposite to call options, a put gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to instead sell the underlying stock at the strike price on or before expiration. A long put, therefore, is a short position in the underlying security, since the put gains value as the underlying's price falls (they have a negative delta). Protective puts can be purchased as a sort of insurance, providing a price floor for investors to hedge their positions.


  American vs. European Options  

American options can be exercised at any time between the date of purchase and the expiration date.  European options are different from American options in that they can only be exercised at the end of their lives on their expiration date.



The distinction between American and European options has nothing to do with geography, only with early exercise. Many options on stock indexes are of the European type. Because the right to exercise early has some value, an American option typically carries a higher premium than an otherwise identical European option. This is because the early exercise feature is desirable and commands a premium.






In the U.S., most single stock options are American while index options are European.


   Special Considerations  

Options contracts usually represent 100 shares of the underlying security. The buyer pays a premium fee for each contract. For example, if an option has a premium of 35 cents per contract, buying one option costs $35 ($0.35 x 100 = $35). The premium is partially based on the strike price or the price for buying or selling the security until the expiration date.



Another factor in the premium price is the expiration date. Just like with that carton of milk in the refrigerator, the expiration date indicates the day the option contract must be used. The underlying asset will determine the use-by date. For stocks, it is usually the third Friday of the contract's month.


  Options Spreads  

Options spreads are strategies that use various combinations of buying and selling different options for the desired risk-return profile. Spreads are constructed using vanilla options, and can take advantage of various scenarios such as high- or low-volatility environments, up- or down-moves, or anything in-between.






Spread strategies can be characterized by their payoff or visualizations of their profit-loss profile, such as bull call spreads or iron condors.


   Options Risk Metrics: The Greeks  

The options market uses the term the "Greeks" to describe the different dimensions of risk involved in taking an options position, either in a particular option or a portfolio. These variables are called Greeks because they are typically associated with Greek symbols.



Each risk variable is a result of an imperfect assumption or relationship of the option with another underlying variable. Traders use different Greek values to assess options risk and manage option portfolios.


  Delta  

Delta (Δ) represents the rate of change between the option's price and a $1 change in the underlying asset's price. In other words, the price sensitivity of the option relative to the underlying. Delta of a call option has a range between zero and one, while the delta of a put option has a range between zero and negative one. For example, assume an investor is long a call option with a delta of 0.50. Therefore, if the underlying stock increases by $1, the option's price would theoretically increase by 50 cents.



Delta also represents the hedge ratio for creating a delta-neutral position for options traders. So if you purchase a standard American call option with a 0.40 delta, you need to sell 40 shares of stock to be fully hedged. Net delta for a portfolio of options can also be used to obtain the portfolio's hedge ratio.



A less common usage of an option's delta is the current probability that it will expire in-the-money. For instance, a 0.40 delta call option today has an implied 40% probability of finishing in-the-money.


  Theta  

Theta (Θ) represents the rate of change between the option price and time, or time sensitivity - sometimes known as an option's time decay. Theta indicates the amount an option's price would decrease as the time to expiration decreases, all else equal. For example, assume an investor is long an option with a theta of -0.50. The option's price would decrease by 50 cents every day that passes, all else being equal. If three trading days pass, the option's value would theoretically decrease by $1.50.



Theta increases when options are at-the-money, and decreases when options are in- and out-of-the money. Options closer to expiration also have accelerating time decay. Long calls and long puts usually have negative Theta. Short calls and short puts, on the other hand, have positive Theta. By comparison, an instrument whose value is not eroded by time, such as a stock, has zero Theta.


  Gamma  

Gamma (Γ) represents the rate of change between an option's delta and the underlying asset's price. This is called second-order (second-derivative) price sensitivity. Gamma indicates the amount the delta would change given a $1 move in the underlying security. Let's assume an investor is long one call option on hypothetical stock XYZ. The call option has a delta of 0.50 and a gamma of 0.10. Therefore, if stock XYZ increases or decreases by $1, the call option's delta would increase or decrease by 0.10.



Gamma is used to determine the stability of an option's delta. Higher gamma values indicate that delta could change dramatically in response to even small movements in the underlying's price. Gamma is higher for options that are at-the-money and lower for options that are in- and out-of-the-money, and accelerates in magnitude as expiration approaches.



Gamma values are generally smaller the further away from the date of expiration. This means that options with longer expirations are less sensitive to delta changes. As expiration approaches, gamma values are typically larger, as price changes have more impact on gamma.



Options traders may opt to not only hedge delta but also gamma in order to be delta-gamma neutral, meaning that as the underlying price moves, the delta will remain close to zero.


  Vega  

Vega (V) represents the rate of change between an option's value and the underlying asset's implied volatility. This is the option's sensitivity to volatility. Vega indicates the amount an option's price changes given a 1% change in implied volatility. For example, an option with a Vega of 0.10 indicates the option's value is expected to change by 10 cents if the implied volatility changes by 1%.



Because increased volatility implies that the underlying instrument is more likely to experience extreme values, a rise in volatility correspondingly increases the value of an option. Conversely, a decrease in volatility negatively affects the value of the option. Vega is at its maximum for at-the-money options that have longer times until expiration.



Those familiar with the Greek language will point out that there is no actual Greek letter named vega. There are various theories about how this symbol, which resembles the Greek letter nu, found its way into stock-trading lingo.


  Rho  

Rho (p) represents the rate of change between an option's value and a 1% change in the interest rate. This measures sensitivity to the interest rate. For example, assume a call option has a rho of 0.05 and a price of $1.25. If interest rates rise by 1%, the value of the call option would increase to $1.30, all else being equal. The opposite is true for put options. Rho is greatest for at-the-money options with long times until expiration.


  Minor Greeks  

Some other Greeks, which aren't discussed as often, are lambda, epsilon, vomma, vera, speed, zomma, color, ultima.



These Greeks are second- or third-derivatives of the pricing model and affect things like the change in delta with a change in volatility. They are increasingly used in options trading strategies as computer software can quickly compute and account for these complex and sometimes esoteric risk factors.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Options  
  Buying Call Options  

As mentioned earlier, call options allow the holder to buy an underlying security at the stated strike price by the expiration date called the expiry. The holder has no obligation to buy the asset if they do not want to purchase the asset. The risk to the buyer is limited to the premium paid. Fluctuations of the underlying stock have no impact.



Buyers are bullish on a stock and believe the share price will rise above the strike price before the option expires. If the investor's bullish outlook is realized and the price increases above the strike price, the investor can exercise the option, buy the stock at the strike price, and immediately sell the stock at the current market price for a profit.



Their profit on this trade is the market share price less the strike share price plus the expense of the option—the premium and any brokerage commission to place the orders. The result is multiplied by the number of option contracts purchased, then multiplied by 100—assuming each contract represents 100 shares.



If the underlying stock price does not move above the strike price by the expiration date, the option expires worthlessly. The holder is not required to buy the shares but will lose the premium paid for the call.


  Selling Call Options  

Selling call options is known as writing a contract. The writer receives the premium fee. In other words, a buyer pays the premium to the writer (or seller) of an option. The maximum profit is the premium received when selling the option. An investor who sells a call option is bearish and believes the underlying stock's price will fall or remain relatively close to the option's strike price during the life of the option.



If the prevailing market share price is at or below the strike price by expiry, the option expires worthlessly for the call buyer. The option seller pockets the premium as their profit. The option is not exercised because the buyer would not buy the stock at the strike price higher than or equal to the prevailing market price.



However, if the market share price is more than the strike price at expiry, the seller of the option must sell the shares to an option buyer at that lower strike price. In other words, the seller must either sell shares from their portfolio holdings or buy the stock at the prevailing market price to sell to the call option buyer. The contract writer incurs a loss. How large of a loss depends on the cost basis of the shares they must use to cover the option order, plus any brokerage order expenses, but less any premium they received.



As you can see, the risk to the call writers is far greater than the risk exposure of call buyers. The call buyer only loses the premium. The writer faces infinite risk because the stock price could continue to rise increasing losses significantly.


  Buying Put Options  

Put options are investments where the buyer believes the underlying stock's market price will fall below the strike price on or before the expiration date of the option. Once again, the holder can sell shares without the obligation to sell at the stated strike per share price by the stated date.



Since buyers of put options want the stock price to decrease, the put option is profitable when the underlying stock's price is below the strike price. If the prevailing market price is less than the strike price at expiry, the investor can exercise the put. They will sell shares at the option's higher strike price. Should they wish to replace their holding of these shares they may buy them on the open market.



Their profit on this trade is the strike price less the current market price, plus expenses—the premium and any brokerage commission to place the orders. The result would be multiplied by the number of option contracts purchased, then multiplied by 100—assuming each contract represents 100 shares.



The value of holding a put option will increase as the underlying stock price decreases. Conversely, the value of the put option declines as the stock price increases. The risk of buying put options is limited to the loss of the premium if the option expires worthlessly.


  Selling Put Options  

Selling put options is also known as writing a contract. A put option writer believes the underlying stock's price will stay the same or increase over the life of the option, making them bullish on the shares. Here, the option buyer has the right to make the seller, buy shares of the underlying asset at the strike price on expiry.



If the underlying stock's price closes above the strike price by the expiration date, the put option expires worthlessly. The writer's maximum profit is the premium. The option isn't exercised because the option buyer would not sell the stock at the lower strike share price when the market price is more.



If the stock's market value falls below the option strike price, the writer is obligated to buy shares of the underlying stock at the strike price. In other words, the put option will be exercised by the option buyer who sells their shares at the strike price as it is higher than the stock's market value.



The risk for the put option writer happens when the market's price falls below the strike price. The seller is forced to purchase shares at the strike price at expiration. The writer's loss can be significant depending on how much the shares depreciate.



The writer (or seller) can either hold on to the shares and hope the stock price rises back above the purchase price or sell the shares and take the loss. Any loss is offset by the premium received.



An investor may write put options at a strike price where they see the shares being a good value and would be willing to buy at that price. When the price falls and the buyer exercises their option, they get the stock at the price they want with the added benefit of receiving the option premium.





Pros

A call option buyer has the right to buy assets at a lower price than the market when the stock's price rises
The put option buyer profits by selling stock at the strike price when the market price is below the strike price
Option sellers receive a premium fee from the buyer for writing an option



Cons

The put option seller may have to buy the asset at the higher strike price than they would normally pay if the market falls
The call option writer faces infinite risk if the stock's price rises and are forced to buy shares at a high price
Option buyers must pay an upfront premium to the writers of the option





   Example of an Option  

Suppose that Microsoft (MFST) shares trade at $108 per share and you believe they will increase in value. You decide to buy a call option to benefit from an increase in the stock's price. You purchase one call option with a strike price of $115 for one month in the future for 37 cents per contract. Your total cash outlay is $37 for the position plus fees and commissions (0.37 x 100 = $37).



If the stock rises to $116, your option will be worth $1, since you could exercise the option to acquire the stock for $115 per share and immediately resell it for $116 per share. The profit on the option position would be 170.3% since you paid 37 cents and earned $1—that's much higher than the 7.4% increase in the underlying stock price from $108 to $116 at the time of expiry.



In other words, the profit in dollar terms would be a net of 63 cents or $63 since one option contract represents 100 shares [($1 - 0.37) x 100 = $63].



If the stock fell to $100, your option would expire worthlessly, and you would be out $37 premium. The upside is that you didn't buy 100 shares at $108, which would have resulted in an $8 per share, or $800, total loss. As you can see, options can help limit your downside risk.





Options Terminology to Know

Options trading involves a lot of lingo, here are just some of the key terminology to know the meanings of:

At-the-money (ATM) - an option whose strike price is exactly that of where the underlying is trading. ATM options have a delta of 0.50.
In-the-money (ITM) - an option with intrinsic value, and a delta greater than 0.50. For a call, the strike price of an ITM option will be below the current price of the underlying; for a put, above the current price.
Out-of-the-money (OTM) - an option with only extrinsic (time) value and a delta a less than 0.50. For a call, the strike price of an OTM option will be above the current price of the underlying; for a put, below the current price.
Premium - the price paid for an option in the market
Strike price - the price at which you can buy or sell the underlying, also known as the exercise price.
Underlying - the security upon which the option is based
Implied volatility (IV) - the volatility of the underlying (how quickly and severely it moves), as revealed by market prices
Exercise - when an options contract owner exercises the right to buy or sell at the strike price. The seller is then said to be assigned.
Expiration - the date at which the options contract expires, or ceases to exist. OTM options will expire worthless.





How Do Options Work?
Options are a type of derivative product that allow investors to speculate on or hedge against the volatility of an underlying stock. Options are divided into call options, which allow buyers to profit if the price of the stock increases, and put options, in which the buyer profits if the price of the stock declines. Investors can also go short an option by selling them to other investors. Shorting (or selling) a call option would therefore mean profiting if the underlying stock declines while selling a put option would mean profiting if the stock increases in value.




What Are the Main Advantages of Options?
Options can be very useful as a source of leverage and risk hedging. For example, a bullish investor who wishes to invest $1,000 in a company could potentially earn a far greater return by purchasing $1,000 worth of call options on that firm, as compared to buying $1,000 of that company’s shares.In this sense, the call options provide the investor with a way to leverage their position by increasing their buying power.On the other hand, if that same investor already has exposure to that same company and wants to reduce that exposure, they could hedge their risk by selling put options against that company.




What Are the Main Disadvantages of Options?
The main disadvantage of options contracts is that they are complex and difficult to price. This is why options are considered to be a security most suitable for experienced professional investors. In recent years, they have become increasingly popular among retail investors. Because of their capacity for outsized returns or losses, investors should make sure they fully understand the potential implications before entering into any options positions. Failing to do so can lead to devastating losses.




How Do Options Differ From Futures?
Both options and futures are types of derivatives contracts that are based on some underlying asset or security. The main difference is that options contracts grant the right but not the obligation to buy or sell the underlying in the future. Futures contracts have this obligation.




Is an Options Contract an Asset?
Yes, an options contract is a derivatives security, which is a type of asset.


   The Bottom Line  

Options are a type of derivative product that allow investors to speculate on or hedge against the volatility of an underlying stock. Options are divided into call options, which allow buyers to profit if the price of the stock increases, and put options, in which the buyer profits if the price of the stock declines. Investors can also go short an option by selling them to other investors. Shorting (or selling) a call option would therefore mean profiting if the underlying stock declines while selling a put option would mean profiting if the stock increases in value.
What Is Options Backdating?  

Options backdating is the process of granting an employee stock option (ESO) that is dated before its actual issuance. In this way, the exercise (strike) price of the granted option can be set at a lower price than that of the company's stock price at the granting date. This process makes the granted option "in the money" (ITM) and therefore of greater value to the holder.



The practice of backdating options has been considered unethical and is now the subject of regulatory scrutiny, making it far less widespread in recent years.





Key Takeaways

Options backdating is a practice whereby a firm issuing stock options to employees uses an earlier date than the actual issue date in order to fix a lower exercise price, making the options more valuable.Backdating options has been considered to be an unethical or illegal practice, and is now subject to legal and regulatory enforcement since the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.Options backdating has become much more difficult since the introduction of Sarbanes-Oxley as companies are now required to report option grants to the SEC within two business days.


   Understanding Options Backdating  

The practice of options backdating first occurred when companies were only required to report the issuance of stock options to the SEC within two months of the initial grant date. Companies would simply wait during that period to identify a particular date in which the company's stock price fell to a low and then moved higher within those two months. The company would then grant the option, but date it at or near this lowest point. This back-date would become the offcial granted option that would be reported to the SEC.



The act of options backdating became much more difficult after companies were required to report the granting of options to the SEC within two business days. This adjustment to the filing window came with the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation in 2002.


   Enforcement of Options Backdating Restrictions  

After the two-day reporting rule went into effect, the SEC found numerous companies were still backdating options in violation of the legislation. Disordered, untimely paperwork was cited as the cause in some cases of unintentional backdating. Initially, lax enforcement of the reporting rule was also blamed for allowing many companies to sidestep the rule adjustment that stemmed from Sarbanes-Oxley.



The SEC would go on to investigate and sue companies and related parties that were found to backdate options, in some cases, as part of fraudulent and deceptive schemes. For example, the SEC filed a civil lawsuit in 2010 against Trident Microsystems and two former senior executives from the company for stock option backdating violations. The legal complaint alleged that from 1993 to 2006, the former CEO and the former chief accounting officer directed the company to engage in schemes to provide undisclosed compensation to executives and certain employees.



CEO Frank C. Lin was accused of backdating stock option documents to give the appearance that options were granted on earlier dates than issued. This scheme was allegedly used to the benefit of officers and employees of the company as well as its directors. This included options backdating presented in offer letters to new hires. Annual and quarterly reports filed by the company did not include the compensation costs that stemmed from the options backdating incidents. Trident and its former executives agreed to settle the case without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC’s complaint.﻿﻿
What Is the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC)?  

The Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) is an organization that acts as both the issuer and guarantor for options and futures contracts. The largest equity derivatives clearing organization in the world, it operates under the jurisdiction of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



The OCC should not be confused with the U.S. Treasury's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which also goes by the acronym "OCC."





Key Takeaways

The Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) serves as a central clearinghouse and regulator for listed options traded in the United States under the auspices of the SEC and CFTC.The OCC clears exchange-traded transactions in options contracts and interest rate composites.Value-added solutions provided by the OCC include research services, investor education, customer support, and marketing outreach.Changes have been made so the OCC could adapt its operations to better address risk after the 2008 financial crisis.


   Understanding the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC)  

The objective of the OCC, which was founded in 1973, is to instill stability in the equity derivatives market. According to its mission statement, the OCC is a customer-driven clearing organization that delivers risk management, clearance, and settlement services.



Under its SEC jurisdiction, the OCC clears transactions for put and call options, stock indexes, foreign currencies, and interest rate composites. As a registered derivatives clearing organization (DCO) under CFTC jurisdiction, it provides clearing and settlement services for transactions in futures products, as well as options on futures.






The OCC also offers central counterparty clearing and settlement services for securities lending transactions.



The organization essentially acts as a guarantor to ensure the obligations of the contracts it clears are fulfilled. A board of directors (B of D) populated by representatives from exchanges, clearing members and management oversee the OCC, and most of its revenue comes from clearing fees charged to its members.



The OCC also provides research services and other value-added solutions that support and grow the markets that it serves. The corporation serves 16 different exchanges, including the C2 Options Exchange, Chicago Board Options Exchange, International Securities Exchange, Nasdaq BX Options, Nasdaq PHLX, NYSE American Options, and NYSE Arca Options.






The OCC cleared 9.93 billion contracts in 2021, the industry's highest ever annual volume.


   History of the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC)  

The aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis brought new scrutiny and purpose to the OCC. Changes were made so it could adapt its operations to better address risk. Federal regulators began to see the OCC as an increasingly integral part of the governance and oversight of the markets. The heightened attention focused on the organization brought with it some unfavorable assessments by regulators.



In 2013, the SEC criticized the OCC’s management and planning for the way it handled market-wide issues. The SEC also said the OCC’s management at that time lacked appropriate supervision in terms of corporate governance. The SEC further cited numerous conflicts of interest with the management and board of directors, which called into question the organization’s commitment to regulatory compliance.



This led to the introduction of new executive leadership, including the addition of new positions to reinforce the OCC's compliance efforts.


  Current Leadership  

The OCC's management and leadership currently consist of a diverse team of people from different parts of the investment world, including exchanges, clearing members, and other directors. As of Oct. 2022, key figures include:



Craig S. Donohue: Before joining the OCC as executive chair in 2014, Donohue spent more than 20 years in global financial markets. He was CEO of CME Group between 2004 and 2012 and has been previously recognized by Harvard Business Review and Institutional Investor Magazine.
John P. Davidson: As chief executive officer (CEO), Davidson is responsible for oversight of the OCC's financial and corporate risk management, compliance, and technology functions. Davidson became CEO in 2019, two years after joining the OCC as president and chief operating officer (COO). According to his bio, he has more than three decades' worth of experience in global financial markets.
Scot Warren: Warren is the corporation's executive vice president and chief operating officer (COO). Among other things, he oversees the OCC's finance, project management, operations, and human resources (HR). Warren previously served as senior managing director of the CME Group's Equity Products and Index Services.
What Is an Options Contract?  

An options contract is an agreement between two parties to facilitate a potential transaction on an underlying security at a preset price, referred to as the strike price, prior to or on the expiration date.





Key Takeaways

An options contract is an agreement between two parties to facilitate a potential transaction involving an asset at a preset price and date.Call options can be purchased as a leveraged bet on the appreciation of an asset, while put options are purchased to profit from price declines.Buying an option offers the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell the underlying asset.For stock options, a single contract covers 100 shares of the underlying stock.


   Understanding an Options Contract  

Options are financial instruments that are based on the value of underlying securities such as stocks. An options contract offers the buyer the opportunity to buy or sell—depending on the type of contract they hold—the chosen underlying asset at a price set out in the contract either within a certain timeframe or at the expiration date.






American options can be exercised any time before the expiration date of the option, while European options can only be exercised on the expiration date or the exercise date.



The terms of an option contract specify the underlying security, the price at which that security can be transacted (strike price), and the expiration date of the contract. In the case of stocks, a standard contract covers 100 shares, but the share amount may be adjusted for stock splits, special dividends, or mergers.



Options are generally used for hedging purposes but can be used for speculation, too. Options generally cost a fraction of what the underlying shares would. Using options is a form of leverage, allowing an investor to make a bet on a stock without having to purchase or sell the shares outright. In exchange for this privilege, the options buyer pays a premium to the party selling the option.


   Types of Options Contract  

There are two types of options contract: puts and calls. Both can be purchased to speculate on the direction of the security or hedge exposure. They can also be sold to generate income.



In general, call options can be purchased as a leveraged bet on the appreciation of a stock or index, while put options are purchased to profit from price declines. The buyer of a call option has the right, but not the obligation, to buy the number of shares covered in the contract at the strike price. Put buyers, on the other hand, have the right, but not the obligation, to sell the shares at the strike price specified in the contract.



Option sellers, also known as writers, are obligated to transact their side of the trade if a buyer decides to execute a call option to buy the underlying security or execute a put option to sell.



Call Option Contract: In a call option transaction, a position is opened when a contract or contracts are purchased from the seller. In the transaction, the seller is paid a premium to assume the obligation of selling shares at the strike price. If the seller holds the shares to be sold, the position is referred to as a covered call.
Put Option Contract: Buyers of put options are speculating on price declines of the underlying stock or index and own the right to sell the shares at the strike price specified in the contract. If the share price drops below the strike price prior to or at expiration, the buyer can either assign shares to the seller for purchase at the strike price or sell the contract if the shares are not held in the portfolio.


   Example of an Options Contract  

Company ABC's shares trade at $60, and a call writer is looking to sell calls at $65 with a one-month expiration. If the share price stays below $65 and the options expire, the call writer keeps the shares and can collect another premium by writing calls again.



If, however, the share price appreciates to a price above $65, referred to as being in-the-money (ITM), the buyer calls the shares from the seller, purchasing them at $65. The call-buyer can also sell the options if purchasing the shares is not the desired outcome.
What Is the Options Industry Council (OIC)?  

Options Industry Council (OIC) refers to a cooperative that helps educate investors and financial advisers about the benefits and risks of exchange-traded equity options.





Key Takeaways

The Options Industry Council (OIC), established in 1992, is a cooperative formed by U.S. options exchanges and the Options Clearing Corporation.The OIC educates investors and financial advisers about the benefits and risks of exchange-traded equity options.OIC offers online classes, in-person seminars, online webcasts, and podcasts along with educational materials, such as DVDs and brochures.There are three specialist areas served by the OIC, namely institutional investors, financial advisors, and investors.


   Understanding the Options Industry Council (OIC)  

The OIC was established in 1992 by U.S. options exchanges and the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC). Its mission is to increase awareness and educate investors about exchange-traded equity options. The OIC is sponsored by a variety of corporations, including Nasdaq Inc.'s International Securities Exchange (ISE).



An exchange-traded option is a standardized derivative contract. This product is guaranteed, trades on an exchange, and is settled through a clearinghouse. Investors trade these contracts by buying or selling a specified amount of a financial asset at a pre-determined price, which is known as the strike price, on or before a pre-determined date. An option to buy is a call and an option to sell is a put.



Understanding and trading these assets may be complicated. In order to provide investors with educational tools and demystify options, a group of U.S. exchanges teamed up with the OCC to establish the Options Industry Council.



The OIC serves as an educational resource to promote exchange-traded equity options. It offers online classes, in-person seminars, online webcasts, and podcasts to investors and other traders. It also distributes educational materials, such as DVDs and brochures. In addition, the organization maintains a website and help desk to promote and assist with options education. Included in the educational material presented on its website are options basics, advanced concepts, strategies, trading tools, calculators, and market quotes.



The OIC is sponsored by corporations including:



International Securities Exchange (ISE)
BATS Options
Boston Options Exchange
C2 Options Exchange
Chicago Board Options Exchange
Nasdaq PHLX
Nasdaq Options Market
NYSE Amex
NYSE Arca






The OIC says its educational tools are free and unbiased.


   OIC Resources  

All the information provided by the OIC is fully vetted. It goes through the appropriate compliance channels to ensure its accuracy before being presented to investors and financial professionals. The experienced instructors seek to address the challenges investors face when they trade options.



The OIC's information serves three specialist areas:



Institutional Investor Center: This area requires registration. These investors can get useful information about derivatives as well as market issues and trends that financial professionals need.Financial Advisor Center: Financial professionals can use materials provided through this section to research the benefits options have for their client base. Registration is also required for this area.Investor Services: This section provides all of the basic information investors require about all of the products that trade on OCC exchanges.
What Are Options On Futures?  

An option on a futures contract gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specific futures contract at a strike price on or before the option's expiration date. These work similarly to stock options, but differ in that the underlying security is a futures contract.



Most options on futures, such as index options, are cash settled. They also tend to be European-style options, which means that these options cannot be exercised early.





Key Takeaways

Options on futures work similarly to options on other securities (such as stocks), but they tend to be cash settled and of European style, meaning no early exercise.Futures options can be thought of as a 'second derivative' and require the trader to pay attention to detail.The key details for options on futures are the contract specifications for both the option contract and the underlying futures contract.


   How Options On Futures Work  

An option on a futures contract is very similar to a stock option in that it gives the buyer the right, but not obligation, to buy or sell the underlying asset, while creating a potential obligation for the seller of the option to buy or sell the underlying asset if the buyer so desires by exercising that option. That means the option on a futures contract, or futures option, is a derivative security of a derivative security. But the pricing and contract specifications of these options does not necessarily add leverage on top of leverage.



An option on an S&P 500 futures contract, therefore, can be though of as a second derivative of the S&P 500 index since the futures are themselves derivatives of the index. As such, there are more variables to consider as both the option and the futures contract have expiration dates and their own supply and demand profiles. Time decay (also known as theta), works on options futures the same as options on other securities, so traders must account for this dynamic.



For call options on futures, the holder of the option would enter into the long side of the contract and would buy the underlying asset at the option's strike price. For put options, the holder of the option would enter into the short side of the contract and would sell the underlying asset at the option's strike price.


   Example of Options on Futures  

As an example of how these option contracts work, first consider an S&P 500 futures contract. The most popularly traded S&P 500 contract is called the E-mini S&P 500, and it allows a buyer to control an amount of cash worth 50 times the value of the S&P 500 Index. So if the value of the index were to be $3,000, this e-mini contract would control the value of $150,000 in cash. If the value of the index increased by one percent to $3030, then the controlled cash would be worth $151,500. The difference here would be a $1,500 increase. Since the margin requirements to trade this futures contract are $6,300 (as of this writing), this increase would amount to a 25% gain.



But rather than tie up $6,300 in cash, buying an option on the index would be significantly less expensive. For example, when the index is priced at $3,000, suppose also that an option with the strike price of $3,010 might be quoted at $17.00 with two weeks before expiration. A buyer of this option would not need to put up the $6,300 in margin maintenance, but would only have to pay the option price. This price is $50 times every dollar spent (the same multiplier as the index). That means the the price of the option is $850 plus commissions and fees, about 85% less money tied up compared to the futures contract.



So although the option moves with the same degree of leverage ($50 for every $1 of the index), the leverage in the amount of cash used may be significantly greater. Were the index to rise to $3030 in a single day, as mentioned in a previous example, the price of the option could rise from $17.00, to $32.00. This would imply an increase of $750 in value, less than the gain on the futures contract alone, but compared to the $850 risked, it would represent an 88% increase instead of a 25% increase for the same amount of movement on the underlying index. In this way, depending on which option strike you buy, the money traded may or may not be leveraged to a greater extent than with the futures alone.


   Further Considerations for Options on Futures  

As mentioned, there are many moving parts to consider when valuing an option on a futures contract. One of them is the fair value of the futures contract compared to cash or the spot price of the underlying asset. The difference is called the premium on the futures contract.



However, options allow the owner to control a large amount of the underlying asset with a smaller amount of money thanks to superior margin rules (known as SPAN margin). This provides additional leverage and profit potential. But with the potential for profit comes the potential for loss up to the full amount of the options contract purchased.



The key difference between futures and stock options is the change in underlying value represented by changes in the stock option price. A $1 change in a stock option is equivalent to $1 (per share), which is uniform for all stocks. Using the example of e-mini S&P 500 futures, a $1 change in price is worth $50 for each contract bought. This amount is not uniform for all futures and futures options markets. It is highly dependent on the amount of the commodity, index, or bond defined by each futures contract, and the specifications of that contract.
What Is the Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA)?  

The Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA) is a committee of representatives from participating securities exchanges responsible for providing last-sale options quotations and information from the participating exchanges.



Serving as a national market system plan, OPRA oversees the process by which participants exchange, consolidate and disseminate market data. OPRA's two primary data feeds include trades (last sale reports for completed securities transactions) and quotes (bids and offers for options).





Key Takeaways

The Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA) is responsible for aggregating and disseminating price quotations for listed options contracts in the U.S.OPRA provides data feeds to financial firms, brokers, and traders, displaying the national best bid and offer for an options contract or series.Options quotes are presented as tables of data known as options chains.


   Understanding OPRA  

The Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA) divides its services into two main areas: a basic service for all options except foreign currency derivatives and an "FCO service" for foreign currency options information. The organization includes the Boston Options Exchange (BOX), Cboe Options Exchange, International Securities Exchange (ISE), Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), Miami International Securities Exchange, NYSE Arca, NYSE American, and Nasdaq BX Options.



The quotes taken from each exchange are then combined by OPRA's feeds to produce a national best bid & offer (NBBO) quote.



Less formally, the Options Price Reporting Authority serves as an industry-led consortium supporting the timely and accurate creation and release of market data. Particularly for more esoteric financial instruments such as listed options and related securities. Behind the scenes, the work and data provided by the Options Price Reporting Authority go a long way in adding market liquidity and other elements driving market efficiency. Without the data and information provided by OPRA, capital markets would be less developed, leading to a higher cost of capital for savers and borrowers.


   Reading Options Quotes  

Options have a language all of their own, and when you begin to trade options, the information may seem overwhelming. When looking at an options quote, it first may seem like rows of unintelligible numbers, but options quotes, known as options chains, provide valuable information about the security today and where it might be going in the future.






Not all public stocks have options, but for those that do, the information is presented in real-time and in a consistent order.



As an example of an options chain with quotes provided by OPRA, look at the example below from Apple, Inc. The left column shows the option ticker, in this case, these are all calls with various strike prices expiring in August 2019. Then, last trade time, bid, ask, last price, and change are displaced along with volume and the last price's implied volatility for that option.















Call Option Chain for Apple Inc. (AAPL).
 Yahoo!Finance
Who Is the Oracle of Omaha?  

The Oracle of Omaha is a nickname for Warren Buffett, who is arguably one of the greatest investors of all time. Buffett is the chair and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, a company that he became the controlling shareholder of in the mid-1960s.



He is called the Oracle of Omaha because the investment community very closely follows his investment picks and comments on the market, and he lives and works in Omaha, Nebraska.





Key Takeaways

Billionaire Warren Buffett (who lives and works in Omaha, Nebraska) is known as the Oracle of Omaha, a nickname he earned as one of the world's most successful and closely followed investors.The Oracle of Omaha built his fortune as a value investor, buying undervalued stocks with sound fundamentals for a discounted price, then holding them as long-term investments.Buffett is chair and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, which owns over 60 companies, including GEICO Insurance, Duracell, and See's Candies.












Alison Czinkota / Investopedia


   Understanding the Oracle of Omaha  

Warren Buffett is one of the richest men in the world. He built his fortune using a simple yet powerful investment strategy. His investments are long-term positions, accomplished by the purchase of fundamentally sound companies that are trading well below their intrinsic value. Some of his most publicized investments include Coca-Cola, Gillette, and Dairy Queen. As of Dec. 18. 2022, the Oracle of Omaha is estimated to have a net worth of over $104 billion.






In 2006, Warren Buffett pledged to give away over 99% of his fortune. Since then, he has donated over $49 billion to charitable causes.


   The Oracle of Omaha’s Early Years  

Warren Buffett was born in Omaha, Nebraska, in 1930 to Howard and Leila Buffett. The Oracle of Omaha’s father was a stockbroker, which gave him an early introduction to the stock market. Buffett purchased his first stock at age 11; he bought three shares of Cities Service Preferred for $38 per share and sold them at $40 per share. After he sold the stock, it advanced to $200. On reflection, Buffett believes this taught him the virtue of patience.



Buffett demonstrated business prowess from his early teens, running a paper delivery business and completing his own tax returns. The Oracle of Omaha started a pinball machine business while in high school and went on to sell the business for $1,300. He graduated from the University of Nebraska with a business degree.






On May 1, 2021, the vice chair of Berkshire Hathaway, Charlie Munger, unofficially announced that Warren Buffett would be succeeded as CEO by Greg Abel when the 91-year-old Buffett eventually steps down. Abel is CEO of Berkshire Hathaway Energy and vice chair in charge of noninsurance operations.


   The Oracle of Omaha’s Investment Philosophy  

Warren Buffett is a value investor and a follower of the Benjamin Graham school of value investing. Columbia Business School professors, Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, developed their investing concepts, which in 1949 were published in Graham's book, The Intelligent Investor.



As a value investor, Buffett looks to purchase companies that are below their intrinsic worth but have the potential to make money. Buffett attempts to do this by buying companies that are out of favor with the market. He values a company by assessing its fundamentals, such as return on equity and profitability.



For example, Buffett likes a company to have a low debt/equity ratio. He wants earnings growth generated from shareholders' equity as opposed to debt. The Oracle of Omaha’s quote, “It’s far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price,” sums up his investment philosophy.
What Is an Oral Contract?  

An oral contract is a type of business contract that is outlined and agreed to via spoken communication, but not written down. Although it can be difficult to prove the terms of an oral contract in the event of a breach, this type of contract is legally binding.





Key Takeaways

An oral contract is a type of contract that is agreed to via spoken communication, but not written down and signed.Oral contracts are legally binding but can be difficult to prove in a court of law.The enforceability of oral contracts depends on the jurisdiction as well as the type of deal.It is recommended that oral contracts only be used for simple deals whereas written contracts should be used for more complex deals that include a lot of information.


   Understanding Oral Contracts  

Oral contracts are generally considered as valid as written contracts, although this depends on the jurisdiction and, often, the type of contract. In some jurisdictions, some types of contracts must be written to be considered legally binding. For example, a contract involving the conveyance of real estate must be written to be legally binding.



In some cases, an oral contract can be considered binding, but only if it’s evidenced by a written contract. This means that once the oral contract has been agreed upon the parties must write down the contract terms. Other evidence that can be used to bolster the enforceability of an oral contract includes the testimony of witnesses to the creation of the contract.



When one or both parties act on the contract, this too can be construed as evidence that a contract existed. Furthermore, letters, memos, bills, receipts, emails, and faxes can all be used as evidence to support the enforceability of an oral contract.



A famous example of the enforceability of an oral contract occurred in the 1990s when actress Kim Basinger backed out of her promise to star in Jennifer Lynch's film Boxing Helena. A jury awarded the producers $8 million in damages. Basinger appealed the decision and later settled for a lower amount, but not before having to file bankruptcy.


   When Oral Contracts Fall Apart  

Oral contracts are best used for simple agreements. For example, an oral contract to trade a used lawn mower for a used clothes dryer need not require much detail. The simpler the contract, the lower the chances that the parties involved will need to go to court.



But more complex contracts, such as those for employment, typically should involve written contracts. Complex oral contracts are more likely to fall apart when held up to the scrutiny of a court, usually because the parties can’t reach an accord over the finer points of the agreement.




Is an Oral Contract Enforceable?
Generally, yes, an oral contract is enforceable even though it may be difficult to prove. The enforceability of oral contracts also comes down to the jurisdiction in which a contract may be contested and the type of agreement the contract relates to.




What Makes a Valid Oral Contract?
A valid oral contract consists of an offer, usually a price or a promise for some action to be taken, and an acceptance; an agreement accepting the offer in exchange for payment or service. There need not be more information involved in an oral contract than just the offer and the acceptance of that offer.




What Are the Disadvantages of Oral Contracts?
The primary disadvantages of oral contracts are that they are difficult to enforce, may lead to confusion and error, or the outcome may be inconsistent with what was agreed upon. Because oral contracts are made through spoken word, they can be difficult to enforce in a court of law if one party backs out or does not complete their end of the deal in an acceptable fashion. The disadvantage of all oral contracts is the increased level of risk in the contract.


   The Bottom Line  

Although oral contracts are legally binding, they can be difficult to prove in front of a judge. It is recommended that all contracts be written down and signed by all parties to remove any confusion that could possibly arise later.
What Is the Orange Book?  

The Orange Book is a list of drugs and pharmaceuticals that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved as both safe and effective. Although it is commonly called the Orange Book, its formal name is Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations.



The Orange Book does not include drugs only approved as safe; they must also have been proven to be effective. Drugs whose safety or efficacy approval has been withdrawn are excluded from the Orange Book. However, a drug that is currently subject to regulatory action may still appear in the Orange Book.





Key Takeaways

The Orange Book is a freely accessible list maintained by the FDA describing all pharmaceutical drugs that have been proven both safe and effective.Only drugs that have successfully cleared phase 3 clinical trials are added to the list.The Orange Book is useful for finding generic drug equivalents, which may often be much lower cost for patients.


   Understanding the Orange Book  

The FDA approves new drugs, or existing drugs for new uses, following a series of double-blind randomized clinical trials. Early phases of this process involve tests to judge the safety of a compound, to make sure it does not cause severe side effects or harm. Phase 3 trials are conducted on larger samples to prove both safety and efficacy against a placebo. If successful, the drug will be added to the Orange Book and approved for use.



The Orange Book is available online for free. This makes it easy for medical professionals to search for generic equivalents to brand-name drugs, drug patents, and drug exclusivity. Consumers can also access the Orange Book online. Both patients and doctors can see approved uses for drugs and patent expiration dates for name-brand drugs.



A doctor or patient can see if there is a generic equivalent to a brand-name drug by doing an active ingredient search. For Prozac, you would search the Orange Book for “fluoxetine hydrochloride.” To be able to market and sell a generic drug, the generic drugmaker must file an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The drugmaker must prove that the drug is bioequivalent to the brand-name drug. If an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) is approved, the generic drug will be listed in the Orange Book.


   Using the Orange Book  

For example, a search for the prescription antidepressant drug Prozac shows that the drug is available in different forms (capsules, tablets, solutions, delayed-release pellets, etc.) and it is also available in varying dosage strengths. This search also reveals that five forms of the drug have been discontinued, although in three instances it has been noted that the product was not discontinued or withdrawn for safety or efficacy reasons. The capsules were first approved in 1987, and the drug is approved for acute treatment of treatment-resistant depression in adults.



The Orange Book also shows that the drug’s active ingredient is fluoxetine hydrochloride, which may be generically available at a lower cost.


   Patent Information  

When a new drug is introduced to the public, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) awards the drugmaker a medical patent that protects the product from competitors for a given period of time. Orphan drug patents last for seven years, while a new chemical entity exclusivity lasts for five years.



New Clinical Investigation Exclusivity lasts for a period of 3 years.Pediatric Exclusivity (PED) lasts 6 months on top of any existing Patents or Exclusivity.A Patent Challenge (PC) gives protection of 180 days (this exclusivity is for ANDAs only).Competitive Generic Therapy (CGT) lasts for 180 days (this exclusivity is for ANDAs only).



Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, in order for a generic drug manufacturer to win approval, they must certify that they will not launch their generic product until after the expiration of the patent.



The Orange Book is available as a PDF, in print, and electronically. The electronic version of the Orange Book is the most up-to-date because there are updates made daily, including generic drug approvals and patent information. Other information may only be updated monthly, such as new drug application approvals ad discontinued products.






Patent terms are set by statute. Currently, the term of a new patent is 20 years from the date on which the application for the patent was filed in the United States. Many other factors can affect the duration of a patent.
What Is an Order?  

An order consists of instructions to a broker or brokerage firm to purchase or sell a security on an investor's behalf. An order is the fundamental trading unit of a securities market. Orders are typically placed over the phone or online through a trading platform, although orders may increasingly be placed through automated trading systems and algorithms. When an order is placed, it follows a process of order execution.



Orders broadly fall into different categories, which allow investors to place restrictions on their orders affecting the price and time at which the order can be executed. These conditional order instructions can dictate a particular price level (limit) at which the order must be executed, for how long the order can remain in force, or whether an order is triggered or canceled based on another order, among other things.





Key Takeaways

An order is a set of instructions to a broker to buy or sell an asset on a trader's behalf.There are multiple order types, which will affect what price the investor buys or sells at, when they will buy or sell, or whether their order will be filled or not.Which order type to use depends on the trader's outlook for the asset, whether they want to get in and out quickly, and/or how concerned they are about the price they get.


   Understanding Orders  

Investors utilize a broker to buy or sell an asset using an order type of their choosing. When an investor has decided to buy or sell an asset, they initiate an order. The order provides the broker with instructions on how to proceed.






Orders are used to buy and sell stocks, currencies, futures, commodities, options, bonds, and other assets.



Generally, exchanges trade securities through a bid/ask process. This means that to sell, there must be a buyer willing to pay the selling price. To buy there must be a seller willing to sell at the buyer's price. Unless a buyer and seller come together at the same price, no transaction occurs.



The bid is the highest advertised price someone will pay for an asset, and the ask is the lowest advertised price at which someone is willing to sell an asset. The bid and ask are constantly changing, as each bid and offer represents an order. As orders are filled, these levels will change. For example, if there is a bid at 25.25 and another at 25.26 when all the orders at 25.26 have been filled, the next highest bid is 25.25.



This bid/ask process is important to keep in mind when placing an order because the type of order selected will impact the price at which the trade is filled, when it will be filled, or whether it will be filled at all.


   Order Types  

On most markets, orders are accepted from both individual and institutional investors. Most individuals trade through broker-dealers, which require them to place one of many order types when making a trade. Markets facilitate different order types that provide for some investing discretion when planning a trade.


  Here are some basic order types:  

A market order instructs the brokerage to complete the order at the best available price. Market orders are generally always executed unless there is no trading liquidity.
A limit order is an order to buy or sell a stock at a specific price or better. Limit orders ensure that a buyer pays only a specific price to purchase a security. Limit orders can remain in effect until they are executed, expire, or are canceled.
A limit sell order instructs the broker to sell the asset at a price that is above the current price. For long positions, this order type is used to take profits when the price has moved higher after buying.
A stop order instructs the brokerage to sell if an asset reaches a specified price below the current price. A stop order can be a market order, meaning it takes any price when triggered, or it can be a stop-limit order wherein it can only execute within a certain price range (limit) after being triggered.
A buy stop order instructs the broker to buy an asset when it reaches a specified price above the current price.
A day order must be executed during the same trading day that the order is placed.
Good-'til-canceled (GTC) orders remain in effect until they are filled or canceled.
If an order is not a day order or a good-'til-canceled order, the trader typically sets an expiry for the order.
Immediate or cancel (IOC) means that the order only remains active for a very short period of time, such as several seconds.
An all-or-none (AON) order specifies that the entire size of the order be filled, and partial fills will not be accepted.
A fill-or-kill (FOK) order must be completed immediately and completely or not at all and combines an AON order with an IOC order.



Order types can greatly affect the results of a trade. When trying to buy, for example, placing a buy limit at a lower price than what the asset is currently trading at may give the trader a better price if the asset drops in value (compared to buying now). But putting it too low may mean the price never reaches the limit order, and the trader may miss out if the price moves higher.






One order type isn't better or worse than another. Each order type serves a purpose and will be the prudent choice depending on the situation.


   Example of Using an Order for a Stock Trade  

When buying a stock, a trader should consider how they will get in and how they will get out at both a profit and loss. This means there are potentially three orders they can place at the outset of a trade: one to get in, a second to control risk if the price doesn't move as expected (referred to as a stop-loss), and another to eventually trade profit if the price does move in the expected direction (called a profit target).



A trader or investor doesn't need to place their exit orders at the same time they enter a trade, but they still should be aware of how they will get out (whether with a profit or loss) and what order types they will use to do it.



Assume a trader wants to buy a stock. Here is one possible configuration they could use for placing their orders to enter the trade as well as control risk and take profit.



They watch a technical indicator for a trade signal and then place a market order to buy the stock at $124.15. The order fills at $124.17. The difference between the market order price and the fill price is called slippage.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



They decide that they don't want to risk more than 7% on the stock, so they place a sell stop order 7% below their entry at $115.48. This is the loss control, or stop-loss.



Based on their analysis, they believe they can expect a 21% profit from the trade, which means they expect to make three times their risk. That's a favorable risk/reward ratio. Therefore, they place a sell limit order 21% above their entry price at $150.25. This is their profit target.



They will reach one of the sell orders will be reached first, closing out the trade. In this case, the price reaches the sell limit first, resulting in a 21% profit for the trader.
What Is the Order Audit Trail System (OATS)?  

The Order Audit Trail System (OATS) is an automated computer system established by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). It is used to record information relating to orders, quotes, and other related trade data from all equities traded on the National Market System (NMS), including over-the-counter (OTC) stocks. This system simplifies an order's progression from the initial receipt of the order to its eventual execution or cancellation, for easy tracking or auditing purposes.





Key Takeaways

The order audit trail system (OATS) is a computerized regulatory mechanism that maintains detailed records of securities transactions.OATS requires member firms of FINRA to automatically record and report orders to FINRA.OATS was established so that orders could be more easily tracked and reviewed if necessary; for instance, in the case of a trading error or suspected market manipulation.Individual traders and investors are not required to provide OATS data to FINRA. This is the job of the broker or member firm handling client orders.


   Understanding the Order Audit Trail System (OATS)  

An audit trail is a step-by-step record by which accounting, trade details, or other financial data can be traced to its source. Audit trails are used to verify and track many types of transactions including accounting transactions and trades in brokerage accounts.



FINRA established OATS to ensure that the time-sensitive information relating to the order execution process is recorded accurately. This allows FINRA to monitor the trading practices of member firms, which are required to capture and report trade data to OATS. Traders and investors are not required to submit OATS data. This is the job of the broker or the member firm of FINRA.



Part of this process is requiring that all member firms synchronize their business, computer, system, and time-stamping clocks to avoid errors or issues related to inaccurate times associated with orders.



If a firm has a hard time recording or submitting all the information that OATS requires, the firm can hire a third party to submit the data on their behalf. This is a special arrangement, as OATS recording may not be handled by the clearing firm the firm uses. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved these rules on March 6, 1998.


   OATS Reporting Procedures  

Regulations require firms to submit daily electronic OATS reports to FINRA​​​​​​​. OATS reports must be made the same day an order was received or on the day information becomes available to the firm. Daily electronic OATS reports can be made for single or multiple orders. Information collected on the OATS report includes:



Order identifier.
Identification of the security being traded.
Market participant symbol or identifier.
Terms of the order, such as buy, sell, sell short, the price, the number of shares, account type, and order type, for example.
Date and time the order originated.



In total there are 21 requirements that must be recorded under Rule 7440.



OATS data must be preserved for at least three years. During the first two years, the data must be in an accessible place in case it needs to be reviewed.


   CAT vs. OATS  

The Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT) under SEC Rule 613 is now the required system for tracking trades from start to finish.



According to Deloitte, CAT "isn’t simply OATS on steroids". It includes substantial additional requirements, such as options data, allocations, and customer data. These new data sets may require firms to rethink their target reporting architectures. Additionally, unlike OATS, the CAT has no exemptions to these reporting requirements.


   Example of an Order Audit Trail in Action  

One of the purposes of OATS, and the CAT system, is to monitor for suspicious behavior. Because of the data that is recorded, the people undertaking the suspicious activity are easier to find.



A significant case occurred on May 6, 2010, when a day trader "spoofed" the S&P 500 E-mini market. He used an automated program that started a domino effect of sell orders which led to a flash crash on that day.



In 2015 the man responsible, a London resident, was caught and arrested. In 2016 he pleaded guilty to spoofing and wire fraud.



While a number of parties were involved in providing testimony and evidence, and this case involved futures, not stocks, it shows the importance of order audit trails and financial oversight. The regulators were able to see that Navinder Singh Sarao, the man responsible, put out huge orders hundreds of times, with no intention of being filled on them; but rather for the sole purpose of manipulating the market in his preferred direction.



Order audit trail systems—whether OATS, CAT, or some other regulator requirement—provide evidence and information for regulators in such cases.
What Is an Order Book?  

The term order book refers to an electronic list of buy and sell orders for a specific security or financial instrument organized by price level.



An order book lists the number of shares being bid on or offered at each price point, or market depth. It also identifies the market participants behind the buy and sell orders, though some choose to remain anonymous. These lists help traders and also improve market transparency because they provide valuable trading information.





Key Takeaways

An order book is an electronic list of buy and sell orders for a security or other instrument organized by price level.Order books are used by almost every exchange for various assets like stocks, bonds, currencies, and even cryptocurrencies.These lists help improve market transparency as they provide information on price, availability, depth of trade, and who initiates transactions.There are three parts to an order book: buy orders, sell orders, and order history.


   Understanding Order Books  

Order books are used by almost every exchange to list the orders for different assets like stocks, bonds, and currencies — even cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. These orders can be both manual or electronic. Although they generally contain the same information, the set up may be slightly different depending on the source. Buy and sell information may appear on the top and bottom, or on the left and right side of the screen.



An order book is dynamic, meaning it's constantly updated in real-time throughout the day. Exchanges such as Nasdaq refer to it as the "continuous book." Orders that specify execution only at market open or market close are maintained separately. These are known as the “opening (order) book” and “closing (order) book” respectively.



For instance, the opening and continuous books are consolidated at the Nasdaq market open to create a single opening price. The same happens when the market closes when the closing book and continuous book are consolidated to generate a single closing price.


   Reading an Order Book  

There are typically three parts to an order book: buy orders, sell orders, and order history.



Buy orders contain buyer information including all the bids, the amount they wish to purchase.
Sell orders resemble buy orders, but instead include all the offers (or asking prices) or where people are willing to sell.
Market order histories show all the transactions that have taken place in the past.



The top of the book is where you'll find the highest bid and lowest ask prices. These point to the predominant market and price that need to get an order executed. The book is often accompanied by a candlestick chart, which provides useful information about the current and past state of the market.



The order book helps traders make more informed trading decisions. They can see which brokerages are buying or selling stock and determine whether market action is being driven by retail investors or by institutions. The order book also shows order imbalances that may provide clues to a stock’s direction in the very short term.



For instance, a massive imbalance of buy orders versus sell orders may indicate a move higher in the stock due to buying pressure. Traders can also use the order book to help pinpoint a stock’s potential support and resistance levels. A cluster of large buy orders at a specific price may indicate a level of support, while an abundance of sell orders at or near one price may suggest an area of resistance.


   Special Considerations  

Although the order book is meant to provide transparency to market participants, there are some details that aren't included in the list. Among these are “dark pools.” These are batches of hidden orders maintained by large players who do not want their trading intentions known to others.



Without dark pools, exchanges would see significant price devaluation. When information about a big transaction by a large institution is made public before the trade is executed, it normally leads to a drop in the price of the security. But if information about the transaction is reported after it takes place, the impact on the market may be significantly lowered.



The presence of dark pools reduces the utility of the order book to some extent since there is no way of knowing whether the orders shown on the book are representative of true supply and demand for the stock.






The term order book can also be used to describe a log of orders a company receives from its customer base.


   Example of an Order Book  

Order books continue to collate an increasing amount of information for traders for a fee. Nasdaq’s TotalView claims to provide more market information than any other book—displaying more than 20 times the liquidity of its legacy Level 2 market depth product.



While this extra information may not be very significant to the average investor, it may be useful to day traders and experienced market professionals who rely on the order book to make trading decisions.
What Is an Order Driven Market?  

An order-driven market is a financial market where all buyers and sellers display the prices at which they wish to buy or sell a particular security, as well as the amounts of the security desired to be bought or sold. This kind of trading environment is the opposite of a quote-driven market, which only displays bids and asks of designated market makers and specialists for the specific security that is being traded.





Key Takeaways


In an order-driven market, trades are based on buyers' and sellers' requirements, with their desired bid and ask prices and the number of shares they want to trade put on display.
This is the opposite of a quote-driven market, in which trades are determined by market makers—dealers and specialists looking to fill orders from their inventory or match them with other orders.
Order-driven markets provide two basic types of orders: market orders and limit orders.
Order-driven markets are seen as less liquid, but more transparent than quote-driven markets.



   Understanding an Order Driven Market  

Order-driven markets consist of a constant flow of buy and sell orders from market participants. There are no designated liquidity providers, and the two basic types of orders are market orders and limit orders. By comparison, in a quote-driven market, designated market makers provide bids and offers that other market participants may trade on.



The biggest advantage of participating in an order-driven market is transparency since the entire order book is displayed for investors who wish to access this information. Most exchanges charge fees for such information.



On the other hand, an order-driven market may not have the same degree of liquidity as a quote-driven market, since the specialists and market makers in the latter have to transact business at their posted bid and ask prices.






Stock exchanges like the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq are seen as hybrid markets—a combination of both order-driven and quote-driven markets.


  How Informed Trading Affects Order-Driven Markets  

In order-driven environments, where traders can choose between market orders, which require liquidity, and limit orders, which provide liquidity, informed trading activities can actually provide a boost to liquidity.



A higher share of informed traders improves liquidity as proxied by the bid-ask spread and market resiliency. However, informed traders have no effect on the price impact of orders. Compared to market orders, limit orders have a smaller price impact by a factor of about four.


  How Order Driven Environments Rank Buy and Sell Orders  

Order-driven trading systems rank buy and sell orders according to price, matching the highest-ranking orders (if possible) at the minimum order amount. If there is a remaining volume of shares to be bought or sold in a given order, trading systems will match the order with the next highest-ranked sell or buy order.



The first rule in the order precedence hierarchy is price priority, followed by secondary precedence rules, which determine how to rank orders of the same price. The first order to arrive at the best price usually has priority over other orders, though sometimes trading systems trade displayed quantities before hidden quantities of the same price.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Order Imbalance?  

Order imbalance is a situation resulting from an excess of buy or sell orders for a specific security on a trading exchange, making it impossible to match the orders of buyers and sellers. For securities that are overseen by a market maker or specialist, shares may be brought in from a specified reserve to add liquidity, temporarily clearing out excess orders from the inventory so that the trading in the security can resume at an orderly level. Extreme cases of order imbalance may cause suspension of trading until the imbalance is resolved.





Key Takeaways

Order imbalances exist when there is an excess of buy or sell orders for a specific security.Most order imbalances are short-lived but can exist for hours and even the entire day.Using limit orders rather than market orders can help mitigate some of the problems with buying or selling during order imbalances.


   Understanding Order Imbalances  

Order imbalances can often occur when major news hits a stock, such as an earnings release, change in guidance, or merger and acquisition activity. Imbalances can move securities to the upside or downside, but most imbalances get worked out within a few minutes or hours in one daily session. Smaller, less liquid securities can have imbalances that last longer than a single trading session because there are fewer shares in the hands of fewer people.



Investors can protect themselves against the volatile price changes that can arise from order imbalances by using limit orders when placing trades, rather than market orders. A market order is simply one to buy or sell at the best price available at the time, while a limit order is one where the investor wants to buy or sell at a specific price.


   Special Considerations  

Other incidents that can lead to order imbalances include leaks of information or rumors that have the potential to affect the shares of a public company. For example, there might be legislation gaining momentum that could affect the company’s operations and business model. Companies that use newer technology and platforms that have outpaced existing laws may be particularly susceptible to this as regulators play catch up and, in the process, introduce rules that can cut into their profit margins.



As each trading day draws to a close, order imbalances can arise as investors race to lock in shares near the closing price. This can especially come into play if the stock price is seen at a discount on that particular trading day.






Investors who want to avoid buying or selling amid such order imbalances might try to time their orders in advance of the wave of buyers and sellers that may come in.



If there is a notification of an order imbalance with too many buyer orders, holders of the stock might seize the opportunity to sell some of their shares and take advantage of the increased demand. The expectation is they could see a lucrative return on investment with potentially higher prices. Conversely, buyers might attempt to take advantage of an overabundance of sell orders when prices have been temporarily discounted due to the imbalance.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Order Management System (OMS)?   

An order management system (OMS) is an electronic system developed to execute securities orders in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Brokers and dealers use an OMS when filling orders for various types of securities and can track the progress of each order throughout the system.



An OMS in the financial markets may also be referred to as a trade order management system.



Businesses—ecommerce businesses and sellers in particular—also use an OMS to streamline and automate the sales and fulfillment process from the point of sale to delivery to the customer.





Key Takeaways

An order management system (OMS) is a software system that facilitates and manages the execution of trade orders.In the financial markets, an order must be placed in a trading system to execute a buy or sell order for a security.Brokers and dealers use an OMS when filling orders for various types of securities and can track the progress of each order throughout the system.An effective OMS helps firms with the real-time monitoring of positions and the ability to prevent regulatory violations.


   Understanding an Order Management System (OMS)  

An OMS is a software system that facilitates and manages the execution of trade orders. In the financial markets, an order must be placed in a trading system to execute a buy or sell order for a security.



A trading order typically contains the following information:



Security identifier (i.e., its ticker symbol)
Order type (i.e., buy, sell, or short)
Order size
Order type (e.g., market, limit, stop, etc.)
Order instructions (e.g., day order, fill or kill, good-’til-canceled, etc.)
Order transmission (broker, electronic communication network [ECN], at-the-close [ATC], etc.)



An OMS executes trades through a software system using the Financial Information eXchange (FIX) protocol. FIX is an electronic communications protocol used to share international real-time exchange information related to the trillions of dollars of securities transactions and markets.



However, communicating transactions can also be done through the use of a custom application programming interface (API). The FIX protocol links hedge funds and investment firms to hundreds of counterparties around the world using the OMS.


   Special Considerations  

Among institutional trading desks, an OMS can be used on both the buy-side and the sell-side to allow firms to manage the life cycle of their trades and automate and streamline investments across their portfolios.



For review, the buy-side is a segment of Wall Street made up of investing institutions such as mutual funds, pension funds, and insurance firms that tend to buy large portions of securities for money management purposes.



The buy-side is the opposite of the sell-side. The sell-side does not make direct investments; instead, it provides the investing market with investment recommendations for upgrades, downgrades, target prices, and other opinions.



Together, the buy-side and the sell-side make up both sides of Wall Street.


   Securities Trading OMS  

There are many products and securities that can be traded or monitored with an OMS. Some of the financial instruments traded by using an OMS include:



EquitiesFixed-income products such as bondsCurrenciesCommodities such as crude oil or copperLoansCashDerivatives, which might consist of options on interest rates and currencies



Typically, only exchange members can connect directly to an exchange, which means that a sell-side OMS usually has exchange connectivity, whereas a buy-side OMS is concerned with connecting to sell-side firms. When an order is executed on the sell-side, the sell-side OMS must then update its state and send an execution report to the order’s originating firm.






A trading OMS will often route orders to the best exchange in terms of price and execution or will allow a trader to manually route which exchange to send the order to.



An OMS should also allow firms to access information on orders entered into the system, including details on all open orders, and previously completed orders. The OMS supports portfolio management by translating intended asset allocation actions into marketable orders for the buy-side.


   Benefits of a Trading OMS  

Many OMSs offer real-time trading solutions, which allow users to monitor market prices and execute orders in multiple exchanges across all markets instantaneously by real-time price streaming. Some of the benefits that firms can achieve from an OMS include managing orders and asset allocation of portfolios.



An effective OMS is critical in helping with regulatory compliance, including real-time checks of trades both before and after entry. OMSs help compliance officers with tracking the life cycle of trades to determine if there’s any illicit activity or financial fraud, as well as any regulatory breaches by an employee of the firm. An OMS can improve workflow and communication among portfolio managers, traders, and compliance officers.



OMSs are an important development in the financial services industry because of the real-time monitoring of positions, the ability to prevent regulatory violations, the speed and accuracy of trade execution, and the significant cost savings that result.


   Business OMS  

In addition to trading OMS, there are several other contexts for order management. Businesses can use OMS to keep track of customer orders from point of sale to delivery and to take care of returns and refunds. This is especially useful for businesses that have a high volume of sales or rely on shipping via ecommerce.






For people who have online stores or conduct ecommerce on sites like Amazon or eBay, having an OMS in place can aid greatly in reducing errors, saving time, and increasing profitability. There are several turnkey OMS platforms that easily integrate with these and other online marketplaces.



Therefore, choosing an OMS will depend on the type, size, and scope of the business involved. Costlier systems will also have more features and abilities, such as taking order payments in a variety of currencies, routing suppliers and warehouses based on location or proximity, tracking customer order status, and forecasting inventory status to anticipate possible shortages of supply, invoicing, and returns/exchanges.




Why Do Traders Need an OMS?
An OMS helps traders enter and execute orders, from the simple to the complex, more efficiently. This lowers transaction costs, helps gain best execution, and reduces errors. It also reports fills, books trades, and updates one’s positions or portfolio. Some OMSs can also automate trading strategies or risk-mitigating measures such as stop-losses and trailing stops.




Why Do Businesses Need an OMS?
Businesses benefit from an OMS by streamlining the order fulfillment process. This can manage everything from point of sale to delivery. Ecommerce sellers can especially benefit from an OMS that can automate logistics, shipment, returns, and interface with platforms like Amazon, eBay, or AliExpress.




What Does an Order Management System Do?
For businesses, an order management system is a digital way of tracking an order from the order entry to its completion. An order management system will record all of the information and processes that occur through an order's lifecycle. This includes order entry, pathways, inventory management, order completion, and after-order follow-up/services.
What Is an Order Paper?  

An order paper, or order instrument, is a negotiable instrument that is payable to a specified person or its assignee. An instrument such as an order paper is negotiable only if it is payable to the order of a specified person; meaning that it must designate an individual's name to be paid out. It is the opposite of a bearer instrument, which does not require the designation of an individual to be paid out.





Key Takeaways

An order paper is a negotiable instrument that is payable to a specified person or its assignee.An order paper specifies the name of the individual to which payment of the instrument can be made.A bearer instrument is the opposite of an order instrument, as no individual is designated. Anyone holding the bearer instrument can be paid.The most common example of an order paper is a personal check.Endorsing an order instrument turns it into a bearer instrument, which can increase the risk of theft.To avoid turning an order instrument into a bearer instrument, a payee can use a special endorsement or a restrictive endorsement.


   Understanding an Order Paper  

An order paper is one that says “pay to the order of,” whereas a bearer instrument says “pay to the bearer of.” When an instrument states “pay to the order of,” it’s naming a specific designee who can collect payment on that instrument. Bearer instruments, on the other hand, do not name a specific payee; anyone who bears the instrument can collect payment on it. An order instrument must identify a named payee on the payee line. A bearer instrument, on the other hand, does not include the name of the payee on the instrument, and will typically not have a payee line.



A common example of an order paper is a personal check. When a person writes a personal check, they name a specific payee on the payee line, which is preceded by the phrase “pay to the order of.” Only the payee named on this line is entitled to receive payment in the monetary amount specified on the check.



Other order instruments include registered bonds, bills of exchange (a kind of check without interest), and promissory notes (a written promise to pay). By contrast, a $20 bill would be an example of a bearer instrument. A $20 bill has no payee line and names no payee. Anyone who possesses (bears) the $20 bill can use it to obtain $20 worth of goods or services.


   What Makes an Order Paper?  

To be considered an order instrument, a negotiable instrument must have certain characteristics. It must:



Bear the drawer’s signatureBe payable to the order of a named payeeMake an unconditional promise of payment of a specific sum to a named payeeBe payable at a specific time or on demand



An order instrument must include the phrase “pay to the order of (named person or entity)” or “to (named person or entity) or order.” If the words “or order” are included on the order instrument, the named payee is permitted to designate another party to receive the payment therein ordered.


   Endorsing Order Papers  

When an order paper is endorsed, it becomes a bearer instrument. For example, when you receive a payment by check and endorse that check, your check, which was an order paper prior to endorsement, becomes a bearer instrument. Once endorsed, anyone who bears, or possesses, your check can cash it, even if they’re not the person named on the payee line. It’s for this reason that consumers are advised to avoid endorsing checks until they are depositing them.



However, a payee can avoid turning an order paper into a bearer instrument after endorsing it. The payee can use a special endorsement, which involves signing the instrument over to another payee. To do this with a check, for example, the payee can write the words “pay to the order of (named person or entity)” in the endorsement space on the back of the check, and then sign it. Payees can also use a restrictive endorsement to ensure that an endorsed instrument is deposited into a specific account, for example.
What Is the Order Protection Rule?  

The Order Protection Rule is one of the four main provisions of the Regulation National Market System (NMS). The rule is meant to ensure that investors receive an execution price that is equivalent to what is being quoted on any other exchange where the security is traded. The rule eliminates the possibility of orders being traded through, which means executed at a suboptimal price.﻿﻿



The Order Protection Rule requires that each exchange establishes and enforces policies to ensure consistent price quotation for all NMS stocks, which include those on the major stock exchanges as well as many over-the-counter (OTC) stocks. The Order Protection Rule rule is also known as "Rule 611," or the "trade-through rule."﻿﻿





key takeaways

The Order Protection Rule aims to ensure that investors receive the best price when their order is executed by removing the ability to have orders traded through (executed at a worse price).It mandates stocks must be traded on exchanges that show the best quotes, and requires trading centers to establish and enforce written policies and procedures that ensure this.The Order Protection Rule is a provision of the Regulation National Market System (NMS), a set of rules passed by the SEC in 2005, and also goes by the name, "trade-through rule".﻿﻿


   How the Order Protection Rule Works  

The Order Protection Rule—along with Regulation NMS as a whole—was instituted to make financial markets more liquid and transparent via better access to data in general and improved quote displays and fairness in prices in particular. Before the regulation was passed in 2005 by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), existing "trade-through" rules did not protect investors at all times. This was especially true on limit trades where investors would sometimes get inferior prices to those being quoted on a different exchange.



The Order Protection Rule aims to protect quotations for a given security across the board, so all market participants can receive the best possible execution price for orders that can be executed immediately. It requires trading centers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent the execution of trades at prices that are inferior to protected quotations displayed by other trading centers. The rule also established the National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO) requirement that mandates brokers to route orders to venues that offer the most advantageous displayed price.﻿﻿






The three other provisions of Regulation NMS are the Access Rule, the Sub-Penny Rule, and the Market Data Rules.


   Criticism of the Order Protection Rule  

Critiques of the Order Protection Rule's effectiveness have arisen in the years following its enactment. Those criticisms include the belief that, by mandating stocks trade on exchanges that show the best-quoted prices, the rule contributes to excess fragmentation among trading venues. This was implied to have increased the complexity of the market and the connectivity costs to participants in the market, making transactions more expensive overall. For example, trade-through restrictions can force market participants to route orders to lit venues they would otherwise not do business with.



Another criticism of the rule is that it may have indirectly led to an increase in dark trading, a practice where stock is bought and sold in such a way that it does not materially affect the market. This has been attributed to limits imposed on competition among lit venues with choices being made based on their speed and fees instead of stability and liquidity.



Critics have also cited the order protection rule for potentially harming institutional investors who need to make large volume trades but are forced to access small-sized quotations. This has the effect of tipping off short-term proprietary traders to the trading intentions of institutional investors.
What Is an Orderly Market?  

An orderly market is any market in which supply and demand are reasonably equal. An orderly market is said to be in a state of equilibrium. This term can also refer to a site of exchange for goods, services, or financial securities that are traded in a fair, reliable, secure, accurate, and efficient way. Orderly markets contribute to economic growth.





Key Takeaways:

An orderly market is any market, such as goods, services, or financial securities, in which supply and demand are reasonably equal.An orderly market is said to be in a state of equilibrium.When goods, services, or securities are traded in a fair, reliable, secure, accurate, and efficient way, orderly markets contribute to economic growth.


   Understanding an Orderly Market  

Orderly markets usually have stable and competitive prices, reflecting the true value of the good or service. For securities markets, a stock exchange's market surveillance team of specialists is the entity in charge of ensuring an orderly market. Specialists do this by jumping in with their own capital when there are not sufficient buyers or sellers. This helps reduce market volatility. In a disorderly market, there may be market manipulation, insider trading, and other violations.



The rules of the exchange prohibit specialists from trading ahead of investors who have placed orders to buy or sell a security at the same price. If a market is disorderly, investors may lack the confidence to participate. The Federal Reserve also attempts to promote orderly market functioning by ensuring market liquidity.


   Examples of an Orderly Market  

If a particular catalyst threatens an orderly market, several players can be responsible for confronting this threat and maintaining an orderly market. For example, on June 23, 2016, when the U.K. voted to leave the European Union (EU), the chief operating officer of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Stacey Cunningham, pulled an all-nighter calming Wall Street money managers and traders.



The Brexit vote, referring to the referendum on the U.K.'s decision to exit the EU, could have had deleterious effects on the U.S. equities market, but Cunningham assured agents and, by extension, stockholders, that NYSE's trading model would stabilize and protect the capital of NYSE-listed companies.



By design, NYSE's designated market makers (DMMs) closely monitor the markets and use their own capital to minimize upset and create price efficiency. This is especially useful in a volatile market. The morning after Cunningham's intervention, DMMs addressed global market uncertainty brought on by the EU political upset by adjusting market-open prices to better reflect the actual supply and demand for stocks.



In their assessment of this market event and their approach to dampening price fluctuation, the NYSE has claimed they are superior to Nasdaq when it comes to maintaining an orderly market in times of global economic uncertainty and stress.



The emergence of Fintech has opened up new conversations regarding the maintenance of orderly markets. In 2017, Nasdaq hosted the EU Parliament, the European Commission, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), and several representatives of national supervisory authorities, exchanges, and market participants for a discussion on Fintech and its role in sustaining fair and orderly markets. A takeaway from the discussion was the agreed-upon need for additional collaboration and openness between capital-market constituents and the Fintech industry.
What Are Ordinary and Necessary Expenses (O & NE)?  

Ordinary and necessary expenses are expenses incurred by individuals as the cost of owning a business or carrying on a trade. "Ordinary and necessary" expenses are categorized as such for income tax purposes, and these expenses are generally considered tax deductible in the year they are incurred.﻿﻿



These expenses are outlined in Section 162(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and must pass basic tests of relevance to business, as well as necessity.﻿﻿ However, the IRS does not publish a compendium of what expenses can be considered ordinary and necessary to the pursuit of running a business or carrying on a trade, so it is the responsibility of the taxpayer to make this determination.





Key Takeaways

O≠ are generally the expenses you incur as a cost of owning a business.Common ordinary and necessary expenses include business-related software for a computer or rental expenses.Portions of the home used for business are sometimes tax-deductible.


   Understanding Ordinary and Necessary Expenses (O & NE)  

This section of the tax code is the source of a large number of deductions by individuals, especially in years of transition between jobs or careers. Typical expenses that can be included in the "ordinary and necessary" group include a uniform for work or business-related software purchased for a home computer.﻿﻿



Startup costs associated with setting up a new business may also be tax deductible, but typically must be spread out over several years; these costs do not qualify as ordinary and necessary for IRS purposes but are instead usually deductible as capital expenses.﻿﻿



The IRS defines an "ordinary" expense as anything that is "common and accepted” to a specific trade or business. The IRS defines a "necessary" expense as anything that is "helpful and appropriate,” but not indispensable.﻿﻿ Key examples of “ordinary and necessary” business expenses include:



Employees Compensation: wages or salaries paid to employees for services rendered.
Retirement Plans: money allocated to employee-sponsored retirement plans such as 401(k), 403(b), SIMPLE (Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees), and SEP (Simplified Employee Pension) plans.
Rental Expenses: money for a property a business owner leases but does not own. The rental expenditures are not deductible if the business owner receives equity in, or holds title to the property.
Taxes: any local, state, federal or foreign taxes paid that are directly attributable to a trade or business.
Interest: any interest expenses on money borrowed, to cover the costs of business activities.
Insurance: any type of insurance acquired for a professional business.﻿﻿



In general, “ordinary” expenses refers to those that are commonly and typically used by people in your trade or industry. “Necessary” expenses refers to those expenses that are helpful and appropriate; necessary expenses must also be ordinary expenses in order to be tax deductible.﻿﻿


   Business Use of Your Home  

Business owners may be able to deduct expenses related to the portions of their homes that are allocated toward business use. These expenses may include utilities, mortgage interest, and repairs. But for business owners’ homes to qualify as deductions, they must prove their dwelling is their principal place of business—even if an individual conducts ancillary business at locations outside of the home. Furthermore, deductions for a home office are based on the percentage of a home that a business owner dedicates to business use. Consequently, individuals who operate out of the home are responsible for making this calculation.﻿﻿
What Is an Ordinary Annuity?  

An ordinary annuity is a series of equal payments made at the end of consecutive periods over a fixed length of time. While the payments in an ordinary annuity can be made as frequently as every week, in practice they are generally made monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. The opposite of an ordinary annuity is an annuity due, in which payments are made at the beginning of each period. These two series of payments are not the same as the financial product known as an annuity, though they are related.





Key Takeaways

An ordinary annuity is a series of regular payments made at the end of each period, such as monthly or quarterly.In an annuity due, by contrast, payments are made at the beginning of each period.Consistent quarterly stock dividends are one example of an ordinary annuity; monthly rent is an example of an annuity due.







What's an Ordinary Annuity?


   How an Ordinary Annuity Works  

Examples of ordinary annuities are interest payments from bonds, which are generally made semiannually, and quarterly dividends from a stock that has maintained stable payout levels for years. The present value of an ordinary annuity is largely dependent on the prevailing interest rate.



Because of the time value of money, rising interest rates reduce the present value of an ordinary annuity, while declining interest rates increase its present value. This is because the value of the annuity is based on the return your money could earn elsewhere. If you can get a higher interest rate somewhere else, the value of the annuity in question goes down.


   Present Value of an Ordinary Annuity Example  

The present value formula for an ordinary annuity takes into account three variables. They are as follows:



PMT = the period cash paymentr = the interest rate per periodn = the total number of periods



Given these variables, the present value of an ordinary annuity is:



Present Value = PMT x ((1 - (1 + r) ^ -n ) / r)



For example, if an ordinary annuity pays $50,000 per year for five years and the interest rate is 7%, the present value would be:



Present Value = $50,000 x ((1 - (1 + 0.07) ^ -5) / 0.07) = $205,010






An ordinary annuity will have a lower present value than an annuity due, all else being equal.


   Present Value of an Annuity Due Example  

Recall that with an ordinary annuity, the investor receives the payment at the end of the time period. That stands in contrast to an annuity due, in which the investor receives the payment at the beginning of the period. A common example is rent, where the renter typically pays the landlord in advance for the month ahead. This difference in payment timing affects the value of the annuity. The formula for an annuity due is as follows:



Present Value of Annuity Due = PMT + PMT x ((1 - (1 + r) ^ -(n-1) / r)



If the annuity in the above example was instead an annuity due, its present value would be calculated as:



Present Value of Annuity Due = $50,000 + $50,000 x ((1 - (1 + 0.07) ^ -(5-1) / 0.07) = $219,360.



All else being equal, an annuity due is always worth more than an ordinary annuity, because the money is received earlier.
What Are Ordinary Dividends?  

Ordinary dividends are a share of a company's profits passed on to the shareholders periodically. One of the primary advantages of owning stocks, also known as equities, is the regular payment of dividend income.



Dividends are considered "ordinary" by default, although there are cases when a dividend may be classified as "qualified" because it meets specific criteria. Ordinary dividends are taxed as ordinary income, while qualified dividends are taxed at the lower capital gains rate.





Key Takeaways

Ordinary, or non-qualified, dividends are paid by corporations to shareholders of record.Dividends are considered ordinary by default unless they meet special requirements put in place by the IRS.Ordinary dividends are taxed as ordinary income, while qualified dividends are taxed at the lower capital gains rate.


   Understanding Ordinary Dividends  

Dividends earnings fall into two general categories: qualified or nonqualified (ordinary) dividends. Much of the distinction comes from the company paying the earnings and how the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) views the payments.



Unless a dividend payment is classified as a qualified dividend payment, it is taxed as ordinary income. To classify as a qualified dividend instead of an ordinary one, the earnings must come from an American company—or a qualifying foreign company—and it must not be listed as an unqualified dividend with the IRS. Also, it must meet a required holding period. Holding periods are:



At least 60 days for a common stock
90 days for a preferred stock
60 days for a dividend-paying mutual fund



Ordinary dividends may include a range of other dividends or other earnings you may receive throughout the year. These earnings include those paid on real estate investment trusts (REIT). The primary difference between ordinary dividends and qualified dividends is the tax rate.



The tax rate you pay on ordinary dividend earnings is at the same level as taxes for regular federal income or wages. Companies that pay these earnings to stockholders on record report all aggregate ordinary dividends in box 1a of Form 1099-DIV. Mutual fund companies pay and report these dividend payments in the same manner. For tax filings, you will list these earnings on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040, Schedule B, Line 5.


   Tax Changes on Dividends  

The main differences between ordinary dividends and qualified dividends are the rates at which the gains are taxed. Through the years, these tax rates have changed through several acts of Congress.



In 2003, all American taxpayers received a reduction in their income tax rates. The qualified dividend tax rate was also changed from the ordinary income tax rates to lower long-term capital gains tax rates. The legislation that made it possible was called the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 (JGTRRA). This bill also reduced the maximum long-term capital gains tax rate from 20% to 15% and established a 5% long-term capital gains tax rate for taxpayers in the 10% and 15% ordinary income tax brackets.



A couple of years later, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 (TIPRA) prevented several tax provisions of the 2003 bill from sunsetting, or ending, until 2010. Also, for low to middle-income taxpayers in the 10% and 15% ordinary income tax bracket, it lowered the tax rate again on qualified dividends and long-term capital gains from 5% to 0%. 



The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 extended these earlier provisions for two additional years. Signed Jan. 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 made qualified dividends a permanent part of the tax code but added a 20% rate on income in a newly created tax bracket in 2013 (which became the highest tax bracket). All tax brackets may be adjusted for inflation every tax year by the IRS.






In 2021, the maximum tax rate for qualified dividends and ordinary dividends is 20% and 37%, respectively.



The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act put through by President Trump's administration had little impact on taxes on dividends and capital gains. 


   Example of Ordinary Dividends  

As a hypothetical example, consider the fictitious Joe Investor. He has 100,000 shares of Company ABC stock, which pays a dividend of $0.20 per year. In total, Joe Investor receives 100,000 x $0.20 = $20,000 per year paid in dividends from Company ABC. 



Because Company ABC does not pay qualified dividends, Joe Investor must pay the regular income tax rate on those dividends instead of the capital gains tax rate.
What Is Ordinary Income?  

Ordinary income is any type of income earned by an organization or an individual that is taxable at ordinary rates. It includes (but is not limited to) wages, salaries, tips, bonuses, commissions, rents, royalties, short-term capital gains, unqualified dividends, and interest income.





Key Takeaways

Ordinary income is any type of income that’s taxable at ordinary rates.Examples of ordinary income include salaries, tips, bonuses, commissions, rents, royalties, short-term capital gains, unqualified dividends, and interest income.For individuals, ordinary income usually consists of the pretax salaries and wages they have earned.In a corporate setting, ordinary income comes from regular day-to-day business operations, excluding income gained from selling capital assets.


   Understanding Ordinary Income  

Ordinary income comes in two forms: personal income and business income.



Personal ordinary income can be defined as any kind of cash inflow that is subject to the standard marginal income tax rates, as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



For businesses, on the other hand, the term refers to any type of income generated from regular day-to-day business operations—excluding any income earned from the sale of long-term capital assets, such as land or equipment.






Long-term capital gains and qualified dividends are taxed differently and not considered to be ordinary income.


   Examples of Ordinary Income  

Let’s take a look at how ordinary income works for individuals and businesses in the following examples.


  Individuals  

For private individuals, ordinary income typically consists of the salaries and wages that they earn from their employers before taxes. If, for example, a person holds a customer service job at Target and earns $3,000 per month, then their annual ordinary income can be calculated by multiplying $3,000 by 12.



If this customer service employee has no other income sources, then $36,000 is the amount that would be taxed on their year-end tax return as gross income. Alternatively, if the same person also owned property and earned $1,000 a month in rental income, then their ordinary income would increase to $48,000 per year.






Deductions can reduce the amount of ordinary income subject to tax.


  Businesses  

For businesses, ordinary income is the pretax profit earned from selling its product(s) or service(s).



Retailer Target made $78.1 billion in total revenue in its fiscal year (FY) ending Feb. 1, 2020. However, those sales cost money to generate.



The company claimed that the costs attributable to the production of goods sold (COGS) were $54.9 billion. Target also said it forked out $16.2 billion on selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&As). Factor in depreciation and amortization as well, and you get an ordinary income, or operating income, of $4.66 billion. This is the amount of income that Target was taxed on.


   Special Considerations  

To encourage people to invest long term, the government taxes profits on investments sold after more than a year and most stock dividends held beyond a certain period at a lower rate than ordinary income.



The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 (JGTRRA) reduced the tax on most dividend income, along with some capital gains, to 15%. Those changes encouraged investing and prompted companies to increase dividends or begin paying dividends instead of holding onto their cash.



At the end of 2017, then-President Donald Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) into law, which changed the tax rate on qualified dividends (see below) to 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on an individual’s taxable income and filing status.


  Qualified vs. unqualified dividends  

Investors should be aware that not all dividends qualify for favorable tax treatment. Examples of unqualified dividends include those paid out by real estate investment trusts (REITs), income paid on employee stock options (ESOs), and dividends paid by tax-exempt companies and on savings accounts or money market accounts.



Another thing to watch out for is eligibility requirements. Regular dividends paid out to shareholders of for-profit companies usually qualify for taxation at the reduced capital gains rate, but investors must adhere to minimum holding periods to take advantage.



For common stock, a share must be held for more than 60 days during the 121-day holding period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date. For preferred stock, the holding period is longer, beginning 90 days before the company’s ex-dividend date.




What Is Taxed as Ordinary Income?
Most of the income you make will be taxed at the regular marginal tax rates. There are exceptions, though, including for long-term capital gains and qualified dividends, which are both taxed at more favorable rates. If you're not sure how a certain source of income is taxed, it might be wise to contact the IRS or a tax professional.




Is Rent Ordinary Income?
Rental income, defined by the IRS as “any payment you receive for the use or occupation of property” is generally taxed as ordinary income. However, you can deduct certain costs from this income to reduce the figure at which the IRS taxes you. Deductible expenses include mortgage interest, property tax, repair costs, advertising, maintenance and cleaning, condo fees, and homeowners insurance.




Do I Have to Report Interest Income?
Most interest you receive is taxed as ordinary income, and therefore, subject to ordinary income tax rates. Notable exceptions include interest earned from a Series EE or Series I bond issued after 1989 that’s used to pay qualified higher educational expenses, interest on insurance dividends left on deposit with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and interest on some bonds used to finance government operations. However, even when it’s not taxable, interest still often needs to be reported.
What Is an Ordinary Loss?  

An ordinary loss is loss realized by a taxpayer when expenses exceed revenues in normal business operations. Ordinary losses are those losses incurred by a taxpayer which are not capital losses. An ordinary loss is fully deductible to offset income thereby reducing the tax owed by a taxpayer.


   Understanding Ordinary Loss  

Ordinary losses may stem from many causes, including casualty and theft. When ordinary losses are more than a taxpayer's gross income during a tax year, they become deductible. Capital and ordinary are two tax rates applicable to specific asset sales and transactions. The tax rates are tied to a taxpayer’s marginal tax rate. Net long-term capital rates are significantly lower than ordinary rates. Hence the conventional wisdom that taxpayers prefer capital rates on gains and ordinary rates on losses. 



In 2022, the rates graduated over seven tax brackets from 10% to 37% for ordinary rates, and from 0% to 20% of net long-term capital rates. Also, taxpayers in the highest tax bracket must pay a 3.8% Net Investment Income Tax (NIIT).





Key Takeaways

An ordinary loss is realized by a taxpayer when expenses exceed revenues in normal business operations.Ordinary losses are separate from capital losses.An ordinary loss is fully deductible to offset income thereby reducing the tax owed by a taxpayer.Capital losses occur when capital assets are sold for less than their cost.Taxpayers are allowed to deduct up to a certain limit for capital losses, whereas there is no limit for ordinary losses.


   Ordinary Loss vs. Capital Loss  

An ordinary loss is a metaphoric wastebasket for any loss which is not classified as a capital loss. The realization of a capital loss happens when you sell a capital asset, such as a stock market investment or property you own for personal use, for less than its original cost. The recognition of an ordinary loss is when you sell property such as inventory, supplies, accounts receivables from doing business, real estate used as rental property, and intellectual property such as musical, literary, software coding, or artistic compositions. It is the loss realized by a business owner operating a business that fails to make a profit because expenses exceed revenues. The loss recognized from property created or available due to a taxpayer’s personal efforts in the course of conducting a trade or business is an ordinary loss.



As an example, You spend $110 writing a musical score that you sell for $100. You have a $10 ordinary loss. 



Ordinary loss can stem from other causes as well. Casualty, theft and related party sales realize ordinary loss. So do sales of Section 1231 property such as real or depreciable goods used in a trade or business which were held for over one-year.


   Ordinary Losses for Taxpayers  

Taxpayers like their deductible loss to be ordinary. Ordinary loss, on the whole, offers greater tax savings than a long-term capital loss. An ordinary loss is mostly fully deductible in the year of the loss, whereas capital loss is not. An ordinary loss will offset ordinary income on a one-to-one basis. A capital loss is strictly limited to offsetting a capital gain and up to $3,000 of ordinary income. The remaining capital loss must be carried over to another year.



Let's say that during the tax year you earned $100,000 and had $80,000 of expenses. You bought stocks and bonds and six month later sold the stock for $2,000 more and bonds for $1,000 less than you paid. Then, the stock market tanked when you sold the stock and bonds you bought more than a year ago so that you sold the stock for $14,000 less and the bonds for $3,000 more than you paid. Let's net your gains and losses to figure your overall gain or loss and whether it is ordinary or capital.



Net your short-term capital gains and losses. $2,000 - $1,000 = $1,000 net short-term capital gain. 
Net your long-term capital gains and losses. $3,000 - $14,000 = $11,000 net long-term capital loss. 
Net your net short-term and long-term capital gains and losses. $1,000 - $11,000 = $10,000 net long-term capital loss. 
Net your ordinary income and loss. $100,000 - $80,000 = $20,000 ordinary gain.
Net your net ordinary and net capital gains and losses.  $20,000 - $3,000 = $17,000 ordinary gain.
Carry forward the remaining $7,000 net capital loss over the next three years.




How much ordinary loss can you claim on taxes?
An ordinary loss is fully deductible from taxable income. There are no limits on how much can be deducted.




Can you carry over ordinary losses?
Ordinary losses are fully deductible in the year losses were incurred and cannot be carried forward to subsequent years. Capital losses exceeding the maximum deductible amount can be carried forward into future years.




What is the difference between an ordinary loss and a capital loss?
A capital loss occurs when a capital asset is sold for less than what it cost. For example, if equipment that cost $10,000 is sold for $8,000, a $2,000 capital loss is incurred. An ordinary loss occurs when business expenses exceed business income, when non-capital assets are sold, or for certain non-capital transactions.
What Are Ordinary Shares?  

Ordinary shares also called common shares, are stocks sold on a public exchange. Each share of stock generally gives its owner the right to a single vote at a company shareholders' meeting. Unlike in the case of preferred shares, the owner of ordinary shares is not guaranteed a dividend.



The vast majority of shares sold on all of the U.S. stock exchanges are ordinary shares.


   Understanding Ordinary Shares  

An ordinary share represents a fraction of ownership in the corporation that issues it. As an owner, the shareholder gets a vote in the company's major decisions, decided at its shareholder meetings.



The shareholder may or may not receive a dividend. The company's board of directors decides whether a dividend will be awarded, and how much it will be. The dividend represents the stock owner's share of the profits of the corporation over the past quarter or year.



A corporation may also issue preferred shares. These are a kind of hybrid of a stock and a bond. Their owners are guaranteed a set dividend payment. The price of the shares may rise or fall but is not as volatile as the common stock price. Investors in preferred shares are motivated primarily by the steady income from dividends.





Key Takeaways

Ordinary shares of stock represent proportional ownership of a company.These shares come with voting rights equaling one vote per share.Owners of ordinary shares may or may not receive dividends based on a company’s performance.Preferred shares come with guaranteed dividends at a set percentage.


  The Rights of Ordinary Shareholders  

Ordinary shareholders have the right to a corporation's residual profits. In other words, they are entitled to receive dividends if any are available after the company pays dividends on preferred shares.



This is effectively meaningless. The company's directors may well decide to plow all of its spare cash back into the business, in which case no residual profits will be available for dividends.



Ordinary shareholders also are entitled to a share of the residual economic value of the company if the business collapses. However, they are last in line in bankruptcy court after bondholders and preferred shareholders. As such, ordinary shareholders are on the same footing as unsecured creditors.


  The Advantages of Ordinary Shareholders  

Ordinary shareholders take on greater financial risk than preferred shareholders of a corporation, but they also may reap greater rewards. If a company makes a large profit, the creditors and preferred shareholders do not receive more than the fixed amounts to which they are entitled, while ordinary shareholders may divide the windfall among themselves.



The same occurs when companies such as start-ups are sold to larger corporations. Ordinary shareholders usually profit the most.



In addition to the right to residual profits, shareholders are entitled to vote for the company's board members and to receive and approve the company's annual financial statements. (Some preferred shareholders also receive voting rights.)


  The Value of Ordinary Shares  

In many jurisdictions, ordinary shares have a stated "par value" or face value, but this is a technicality and is often set at a few pennies per share. Market forces, the value of the underlying business, and investor sentiment determine the market price that investors pay for ordinary shares.



A famous example is Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK.A), whose Class A common shares have a par value of $5 but trade above $325,000 per share as of early September 2020.
What Is Organic Growth?  

Organic growth is the growth a company achieves by increasing output and enhancing sales internally. This does not include profits or growth attributable to mergers and acquisitions but rather an increase in sales and expansion through the company's own resources. Organic growth stands in contrast to inorganic growth, which is growth related to activities outside a business's own operations.





Key Takeaways

Organic growth refers to the growth of a business through internal processes, relying on its own resources.Strategies for organic growth include optimization of processes, reallocation of resources, and new product offerings.Measuring organic growth is done by comparing revenues year over year and comparable store sales.Organic growth stands in contrast to inorganic growth, which is external growth, such as through mergers and acquisitions.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Organic Growth  

An organic growth strategy seeks to maximize growth from within. There are many ways in which a company can increase sales internally in an organization. These strategies typically take the form of optimization, reallocation of resources, and new product offerings.



Optimization of a business focuses on continuing to improve a business's processes to reduce costs and set appropriate pricing strategies for products or services. Reallocation of resources involves allocating funds and other materials to the production of best-performing products, while new product offerings seek to grow a business by introducing new goods and services that will add to profits and overall growth.



Organic growth allows for business owners to maintain control of their company whereas a merger or acquisition would dilute or strip away their control. On the other hand, organic growth takes longer, as it is a slower process to acquire new customers and expand business with existing customers. A combination of both organic and inorganic growth is ideal for a company, as it diversifies the revenue base without relying solely on current operations to grow market share.


   Measuring Organic Growth  

Companies will utilize revenue and earnings growth, on a quarterly or yearly basis, as the performance metrics by which to gauge organic growth. The pursuit of organic sales growth often includes promotions, new product lines, or improved customer service. This type of growth is important because investors want to see that a company in which they are invested in, or plan to invest in, is capable of earning more than it did the prior year—a feat that often reflects in a higher stock price or increased dividend payouts.



In some industries, particularly in retail, organic growth is measured as comparable growth or comps in a 13-week period. Comparable-store sales, and sometimes same-store sales, give the revenue growth of existing stores over a selected period of time. In other words, comps do not factor in growth from new store openings or mergers and acquisitions (M&A).


   Real World Example  

Firms such as Walmart, Costco, and other big-box retailers report comps on a quarterly basis to give investors and analysts an idea of their organic growth. Walmart grew its comp sales by 2.5% in the 53 weeks ending Jan. 31, 2020, excluding fuel—a clear example of organic growth that Walmart's CEO attributed to a strategic focus on comp sales over new store openings by improving the in-store experience for customers.﻿﻿


   Investment Analysis of Organic Growth vs. Inorganic Growth  

If company A is growing at a rate of 5% and company B is growing at a rate of 25%, most investors would opt to invest in company B. The assumption is that company A is growing at a slower rate than company B, and therefore has a lower rate of return.



There is, however, another scenario to consider. What if company B grew revenues by 25% because it bought out its competitor for $12 billion? In fact, the reason company B purchased its competitor is because company B’s sales were declining by 5%.



Company B might be growing, but there appears to be a lot of risk connected to its growth, while company A is growing by 5% without an acquisition or the need to take on more debt. Perhaps company A is the better investment even though it grew at a much slower rate than company B. Some investors may be willing to take on the additional risk, but others opt for the safer investment.



In this example, company A, the safer investment, grew revenue by 5% through organic growth. The growth required no merger or acquisition and occurred due to an increase in demand for the company’s current products. Company B saw a decrease in revenue by 5%, which is a decline in organic growth. Overall growth increased due to acquisitions by borrowing money. Company B's growth is completely reliant on acquisitions rather than on its business model, which may not be favorable to investors.
What Is an Organic Reserve Replacement?  

Organic reserve replacement is the supply of oil reserves which an oil company acquires through exploration and production, rather than by purchasing a proven reserve. Recoverable reserves are oil and gas reserves which are economically and technically feasible to extract at the existing price of oil, within current economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations.





Key Takeaways


Organic reserve replacement is the supply of oil reserves that an oil company acquires from exploration and production, and not by purchasing a proven reserve.
The organic reserve replacement is a relevant metric to those needing to evaluate an oil company.
Investors looking at the financial strength of oil and gas companies should consider a company's organic replacement when evaluating its reserve-replacement ratio. 



   How Organic Reserve Replacement Works  

Organic reserve replacement is a relevant metric to those needing to evaluate an oil or gas company. These evaluations would generally include a review of the reserve-replacement ratio.



The reserve-replacement ratio expresses the amount of proved reserves added to a company's reserve base during the year as compared to the amount of oil and gas produced. A company's reserve-replacement ratio should be at least 100% for the company to be profitable and viable long-term. Investors and industry analysts worry when they see an oil company with a less than 100% reserve-replacement ratio. Lower reserves indicate the company is depleting its reserves and, if that trend continues, will eventually run out of supply.


   Exploration of Organic Reserves  

Small- and intermediate-sized oil and gas companies may use a company that specializes in exploration and production (E&P) to find organic reserves. In larger, integrated corporations such as Exxon and British Petroleum, an arm of the business may handle these duties. The term finding and development (F&D) also refers to the process and costs incurred when a company researches and develops or purchases property to establish commodity reserves. In the oil and gas industry, exploration, finding, and developing are know as the upstream functions. 



Usually, exploration begins in an area with high potential to hold a resource, generally due to the local geology and known nearby petroleum deposits. A geophysical and geochemical analysis is done using techniques including induced polarization (IP) surveys, drilling, assaying, seismologic sounding, and the use of electrical currents.



After locating a promising area, the company will drill a deep test hole, known as an exploratory well to gather more detailed geological data on rock and fluid properties. Most current exploration today is offshore, where a single exploratory well can cost $150 million, and the success rate is around one in five. It typically takes several years before an exploratory well comes into production.


   Organic Reserve to Determine Financial Health  

During the exploration or finding and developing stage, some companies use the full cost accounting (FC) approach, and capitalize all their operating expenses, regardless of whether they found any commercially viable reserves or not. This accounting method inflates the balance sheet by treating costs as assets and makes the company look more profitable than it is. In comparison, the successful efforts (SE) accounting method is more conservative. It only allows those expenses associated with successfully locating new oil and natural gas reserves to be capitalized.



Oil quantity is usually measured in barrels, and gas uses a cubic feet measurement. Calculation of a company's costs to find a new source comes from the entire exploration process. Funds spent to locate the new organic reserve replacement is totaled, and then divided by the estimated additional quantity discovered.



Investors looking at the financial strength of oil and gas companies should consider a company's organic replacement when evaluating its reserve-replacement ratio. The organic replacement portion is a significant part of that formula and can be relevant to those wanting to assess the company’s health from an economic standpoint. As an essential metric of overall business health and viability, the ratio indicates the company’s upstream and proactive efforts. The results offer a perception of the results gained from expenditures in drilling and exploration and may give insight into future profitability.
What Are Organic Sales?  

Organic sales are revenues generated from within a company. Organic sales encompass those streams of revenues that are a direct result of the firm's existing operations as opposed to revenues that have been acquired through the purchase of another company or business unit in the past year. The sale or disposal of business lines are also netted out of a total sales figure to derive organic sales. Measuring organic sales is important because it can show the amount of growth that's the direct result of a company's business plan or sales strategy.





Key Takeaways

Organic sales are revenues generated from within a company that are a direct result of the firm's existing operations.Organic sales do not include sales revenue growth as a result of an acquisition of another company within the last year.Organic sales figures are important since they show sales revenue growth from a company's core operations.


   Understanding Organic Sales  

Organic sales are the product of the internal processes of a company and are generated solely within the firm. Organic sales provides management and investors with the level of revenue that was generated from the sale of a company's products and services. If a company generates increases in organic sales, it's typically referred to as organic growth. Revenue growth from organic sales is usually measured on a year-to-year basis, but many companies also monitor organic growth from quarter-to-quarter.


  Organic Sales Growth Strategies  

Companies might achieve organic growth of their sales through internal strategies such as:



New product and service offeringsA marketing campaign for a particular offer to customers and prospectsOptimization of internal processes, which might involve boosting efficiency by making changes to the internal structure of a companyA new sales strategy with commissions or bonuses to employees who hit sales targetsReallocating resources, such as sales and marketing staff, to products and services that are in higher demand


  Sales Growth via Acquisition  

Acquired sales, on the other hand, result from a company purchasing another business through an acquisition. An acquisition of another company would likely lead to sales and revenue growth for the acquiring company but would typically be referred to as inorganic growth. Achieving sales growth inorganically can be a benefit to companies that need access to a new market, product, or service. However, the integration process of two companies, following an acquisition, can be time-consuming. Also, acquisitions can negatively impact organic sales if the company is in a state of flux due to employee layoffs or consolidation of departments.



As a result, it's important to bifurcate the financial reporting of organic sales and inorganic sales if there's been a recent acquisition. For example, let's say a car parts manufacturer reports 4.5% sales growth for the year, 2.5% of which was contributed by an acquisition of a smaller company that occurred in the reporting year. Organic sales growth would, therefore, be 2.0%.



Once an acquisition is fully integrated into a company's existing operations, sales from the acquired unit or business would then be counted as organic sales. The same principle applies to the sale or disposal of business units, which is called a divestiture. If a company sells a business segment, the full duration of a comparison period must pass before organic sales are equal to total sales.


   Benefits of Organic Sales  

It's important for investors to be able to separate organic sales from sales that came from an external source. Organic sales figures will show how much revenue the company is generating from its core operations from period to period.



A breakdown of total sales into organic and acquired enables improved analysis of all aspects of a company's fundamentals, including:



Organic growth in sales of products and services or by specific segments
Profit margins, which help measure the percentage of revenue from sales that become profits
Changes in working capital, which measures a company's current assets, such as cash and money received from sales versus its short-term bills or current liabilities
Cash flow generation, which represents the net cash inflows or outflows during a period
Return on assets (ROA), which shows how efficient a company is at utilizing its assets to generate profit from sales
Return on invested capital (ROIC), which measures the return or profit above the cost of borrowing or issuing equity shares
Portions of executive compensation may also be tied to organic sales performance


   Real World Example of Organic Sales  

Large companies in the consumer staples industry have matured to the point where growth through acquisition is an essential component of their business model.



PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) is a global leader in the beverage and snack business and active in trading assets through acquisitions primarily. Pepsi had recently closed its acquisition of Rockstar Energy Beverages in 2019. However, the company's Q1-2020 earnings report shows that Pepsi reported organic revenue growth of 7.9% compared to Q1 of 2019.



By reporting the organic growth without the distortion of revenue from acquisitions, investors can determine whether the company's product lines saw sales growth, which include Pepsi beverages, Frito-Lay, and Quaker Foods.
What Is the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)  

The Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) is an intergovernmental organization that promotes economic integration and trade cooperation among its member states in the Eastern Caribbean.





Key Takeaways

The Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States is an economic union comprising 11 member states in the Eastern Caribbean.Seven states are protocol members, meaning they enjoy the benefits of free movement of people, capital, and goods, while four are associate members.Eight members share a currency, the Eastern Caribbean Dollar.


   Understanding the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)  

The OECS was founded on June 18, 1981, when the original seven members signed the Treaty of Basseterre in the capital city of St. Kitts and Nevis, for which the agreement is named. In 2010, this treaty was revised to establish an economic union, removing or reducing trade and customs barriers and allowing goods, people, and capital to move more freely.



The protocol members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) are:



Antigua and BarbudaCommonwealth of DominicaGrenadaMontserratSt. Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSt. Vincent and The Grenadines



The associate members of the OECS are:



The British Virgin IslandsAnguillaMartiniqueGuadeloupe



As an economic union, the OECS is a single market and customs union where goods, people, and capital are free to move. The organization also works to unify monetary policy and policies related to government taxes and revenue, in addition to harmonizing their approach toward trade, health, education, the environment, agriculture, tourism, and energy.



Eight members share a single currency, the Eastern Caribbean Dollar. They are Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and St. Vincent and The Grenadines. The British Virgin Islands use the United States dollar, while Martinique and Guadeloupe, as overseas departments of France, use the euro.



Geographically, these islands form a near-continuous archipelago across the Caribbean Sea, known as the Lesser Antilles.


   Benefits of OECS Membership  

Citizens of protocol members are free to travel and work across borders without restrictions. They can do so with a passport, though a driver's license, national ID card, voter registration card, and social security card are also accepted. To live in another protocol member state, a person is not required to demonstrate means of support. They can live and work in another protocol member state indefinitely.



All protocol member states are also members of the larger grouping, the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), and its initiative the Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME). Policies of the OECS are coordinated to align with members' participation in the CSME. Anguilla and the British Virgin Islands are also associate members of CARICOM.



In addition to the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, which governs monetary policy and the Eastern Caribbean dollar, the OECS recognizes two other institutions: the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court and the Eastern Caribbean Civil Aviation Authority. In addition, the Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority is the regulatory body that oversees the telecommunications sector in the region.
What Is the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)?  

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is a group of 37 member countries that discuss and develop economic and social policy.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ OECD members are typically democratic countries that support free-market economies.





Key Takeaways

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is a group of 37 member countries that discuss and develop economic and social policy.Members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are typically democratic countries that support free-market economies.The stated goal of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is to shape policies that foster prosperity, equality, opportunity and well-being for all.﻿﻿The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) was established on Dec. 14, 1960, by 18 European nations, plus the United States and Canada.﻿﻿The organization is headquartered in the Chateau de la Muette in Paris, France.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)  

The OECD is variously referred to as a think tank or a monitoring group. Its stated goal is to shape policies that foster prosperity, equality, opportunity and well-being for all.﻿﻿ Over the years, it has dealt with a range of issues, including raising the standard of living in member countries, contributing to the expansion of world trade, and promoting economic stability.



The OECD was established on Dec. 14, 1960, by 18 European nations, plus the United States and Canada.﻿﻿ It has expanded over time to include members from South America and the Asia-Pacific region. It includes most of the world's highly developed economies.﻿﻿



In 1948, in the aftermath of World War II, the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation (OEEC) was established to administer the predominantly U.S.-funded Marshall Plan for post-war reconstruction on the continent. The group emphasized the importance of working together for economic development, with the goal of avoiding any more decades of European warfare.﻿﻿ The OEEC was instrumental in helping the European Economic Community (EEC), which has since evolved into the European Union (EU), to establish a European Free Trade Area.﻿﻿



In 1961, the OECD articles from the December 1960 convention went into effect, and the United States and Canada joined the European members of the OEEC, which changed its name to OECD to reflect the broader membership.﻿﻿ The organization is headquartered in the Chateau de la Muette in Paris, France.﻿﻿



The OECD publishes economic reports, statistical databases, analyses, and forecasts on the outlook for economic growth worldwide. Reports are variously global, regional, or national in orientation.﻿﻿ The group analyzes and reports on the impact of social policy issues–such as gender discrimination on economic growth﻿﻿–and makes policy recommendations designed to foster growth with sensitivity to environmental issues.﻿﻿ The organization also seeks to eliminate bribery and other financial crime worldwide.﻿﻿



The OECD maintains a so-called "black list" of nations that are considered uncooperative tax havens, although there are not any nations currently on the list since by 2009, all nations on the original list had made commitments to implement the OECD standards of transparency.﻿﻿ The OECD is leading an effort with the Group of 20 (G20) nations to encourage tax reform worldwide and eliminate tax avoidance by profitable corporations.﻿﻿ The recommendations presented for the project included an estimate that such avoidance costs the world's economies between $100 billion and $240 billion in tax revenue annually.﻿﻿ The group also provides consulting assistance and support to nations in central Asia and eastern Europe that implement market-based economic reforms.﻿﻿
What Does OAPEC Mean?  

The Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) is an inter-governmental organization based in Kuwait. OAPEC fosters cooperation among its 11-member Arab oil-exporting nations.


   Understanding OAPEC  

OAPEC was established in 1968 by Kuwait, Libya, and Saudi Arabia. Its other members include Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Qatar, Syria, Tunisia, and the United Arab Emirates. Although they have several members in common, OAPEC is a separate and distinct entity from OPEC (the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries), the 13-nation cartel that plays a pivotal role in determining global petroleum prices.



OAPEC sponsors joint ventures for its member countries to promote the effective use of resources and the economic integration of Arab countries.  


   The History of OAPEC  

Kuwait, Libya and Saudi Arabia signed an agreement in Beirut on January 9, 1968, establishing OAPEC, and agreeing that the organization would be located in the State of Kuwait. By 1982, the number of members had increased to 11. In 1986, Tunisia submitted a request for withdrawal and it was accepted by the Ministerial Council.﻿﻿


   The Structure of OAPEC  

OAPEC's structure is composed of the Ministerial Council, General Secretariat, and a Judicial Tribunal. The Ministerial Council is managed by a Council of Ministers, which is responsible for general policy, activities, and governance. The Council grants membership to applying countries and approves invitations to meetings that are extended to petroleum exporting countries.



The Council also adopts resolutions and advises on issues, approves the draft annual budgets of the General Secretariat and the Judicial Tribunal, validates the end-of-year accounts and appoints the Secretary-General and Assistant Secretaries.



The Executive Bureau supervises the organization in conjunction with the Ministerial Council. The Executive Bureau prepares the Council’s agenda, amends the regulations applicable to the staff of the General Secretariat, reviews the organization's budget and comments on Council issues that are related to the Articles of Agreement. The Executive Bureau has one representative from each member country.



The General Secretariat manages the organization’s activities according to the objectives outlined in the stated in the original OAPEC agreement and the directives of the Ministerial Council. The Secretary-General heads the Secretariat and is the organization's official spokesman and legal representative.



The Judicial Tribunal was established by a special Protocol signed on May 9, 1978, in Kuwait. The Protocol was added to the organization’s Agreement and became effective on April 20, 1980. The first Judges of the Tribunal were elected on May 6, 1981. The protocol mandates that there must be an uneven number of judges of Arab citizenship (a minimum of seven and a maximum of eleven).


   The Influence of OAPEC  

According to Gulf News, although momentum is not at the pace it was 30 years ago, OAPEC has had a substantial positive influence on the Arab oil and gas industry since its inception. Arab energy and oil consumption has increased 15-fold and 10-fold, respectively, and oil reserves have increased to 710 billion barrels in 2016 from less than half that number in 1980.



In addition, gas reserves grew from 15 to 53 trillion cubic meters, and Arab petrochemicals production has now exceeded 150 million tons a year. Historically, it is worth noting that reserve data from OAPEC is influenced by the data provided by member nations, and the accuracy of that data varies.
What Is the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)?  

The term Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) refers to a group of 13 of the world’s major oil-exporting nations. OPEC was founded in 1960 to coordinate the petroleum policies of its members and to provide member states with technical and economic aid. OPEC is a cartel that aims to manage the supply of oil in an effort to set the price of oil on the world market, in order to avoid fluctuations that might affect the economies of both producing and purchasing countries.



Countries that belong to OPEC include Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela (the five founders), plus Algeria, Angola, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Libya, Nigeria, and the United Arab Emirates.





Key Takeaways

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is a cartel consisting of 13 of the world’s major oil-exporting nations.OPEC aims to regulate the supply of oil in order to set the price on the world market.The arrival of fracking technology for natural gas in the U.S. has reduced OPEC’s ability to control the world market.The organization was established in 1960 by its founding members Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela.While OPEC does ensure that there is a steady supply of oil in the global market, it has come under fire for holding considerable power in the industry, which allows it to keep prices as high as possible.


   Understanding the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries describes itself as a permanent intergovernmental organization. The organization is designed to "coordinate and unify the petroleum policies of its Member Countries and ensure the stabilization of oil markets." This ensures that there is a steady supply for consumers and regular income for petroleum producers.



It is headquartered in Vienna, Austria, where the OPEC Secretariat, the executive organ, carries out OPEC’s day-to-day business. OPEC was established in Baghdad in September 1960 by founding members Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela, and now has 13 member countries.



The chief executive officer (CEO) of OPEC is its secretary-general. His Excellency Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo of Nigeria was appointed to the position for a three-year term of office on June 2, 2016, and was re-elected to another three-year term in July 2019.






Some of the world’s greatest oil-producing countries, such as Russia, China, and the U.S., do not belong to OPEC. This leaves them free to pursue their own objectives.


   History of the OPEC  

As noted above, OPEC was founded in Baghdad in 1960. Five countries took part in the Baghdad Conference between Sept. 10 and 14 that year: Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela. The organization established its Secretariat in Geneva before finalizing its location in Vienna in 1965. Three years later, OPEC adopted its Declaratory Statement of Petroleum Policy in Member Countries.



OPEC's membership expanded to 10 countries in 1969 and was an organization that flew under the radar until Arab member countries cut production and banned exports to the United States and the Netherlands. The embargo was a response to the West's support of Israel during the Yom Kippur War in October 1973. A year later, oil prices shot up, causing shortages in the U.S. The embargo was lifted in 1974. In 1975, OPEC had 13 member countries.



In 1976, OPEC established the OPEC Fund for International Development. Member countries work with developing nations and the international community to provide private and trade sector financing and grants to non-member countries.


   OPEC Member Countries  

According to its statutes, OPEC membership is open to any country that is a substantial exporter of oil and shares the ideals of the organization. After the five founding members, OPEC added 11 additional member countries as of 2019. They are, in order of joining, as follows:



Qatar (1961)Indonesia (1962)Libya (1962)United Arab Emirates (1967)Algeria (1969)Nigeria (1971)Ecuador (1973)Gabon (1975)Angola (2007)Equatorial Guinea (2017)Congo (2018)



Ecuador withdrew from the organization on Jan. 1, 2020. Qatar terminated its membership on Jan. 1, 2019, and Indonesia suspended its membership on Nov. 30, 2016, so as of 2020 the organization consists of 13 states.


   OPEC Mission  

According to the OPEC website, the group's mission is “to coordinate and unify the petroleum policies of its Member Countries and ensure the stabilization of oil markets in order to secure an efficient, economic, and regular supply of petroleum to consumers, a steady income to producers, and a fair return on capital for those investing in the petroleum industry.”



The organization is committed to finding ways to ensure that oil prices are stabilized in the international market without any major fluctuations. Doing this helps keep the interests of member nations while ensuring they receive a regular stream of income from an uninterrupted supply of crude oil to other countries.



OPEC recognizes the founding nations as full members. Any country that wishes to join and whose application is accepted by the organization is also considered a full member. These countries must have significant crude petroleum exports. Membership to OPEC is only granted after receiving a vote from at least three-quarters of its full members. Associate memberships are also granted to countries under special conditions.





80.4%

The percentage of crude oil reserves held by OPEC countries in 2021.


   How the OPEC Influences Oil Prices  

Collectively, OPEC is the largest producer and exporter of crude oil and petroleum products in the world. Roughly 40% of the world's oil production and 60% of the world's petroleum market come from the group's member countries and they accounted for more than 80% of the world's proven oil reserves in 2021.



Having said this, it's no surprise that any moves the group makes have a big impact on global energy prices. Oil prices can drop significantly if they decide to supply more oil to the market. On the other hand, if OPEC member countries decide to cut production and curb supplies, prices are highly likely to shoot up.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the OPEC  
  Advantages  

There are several advantages of having a cartel like OPEC operating in the crude oil industry. First, it promotes cooperation among member nations, helping them alleviate some degree of political hostilities. And because the organization's main goal is to stabilize oil production and prices, it is able to exert some influence over production from other nations.


  Disadvantages  

OPEC’s influence on the market has been widely criticized. Because its member countries hold the vast majority of crude oil reserves, the organization has considerable power in these markets. As a cartel, OPEC members have a strong incentive to keep oil prices as high as possible while maintaining their shares of the global market.





Pros

Promotes cooperation among member nations
Exerts influence over production from other nations



Cons

Has considerable power
Incentivized to keep oil prices high to maintain global market share





   OPEC Challenges and Responses  

Oil prices and OPEC's role in the international petroleum market are subject to a number of different factors. The advent of new technology, especially fracking in the United States, has had a major effect on worldwide oil prices and has lessened OPEC’s influence on the markets. As a result, worldwide oil production increased and prices dropped significantly, leaving OPEC in a delicate position.



OPEC decided to maintain high production levels and consequently low prices as of mid-2016, in an attempt to push higher-cost producers out of the market and regain market share. However, starting in January 2019, OPEC reduced output by 1.2 million barrels a day for six months due to a concern that an economic slowdown would create a supply glut, extending the agreement for an additional nine months in July 2019.



Demand for oil dropped during the global crisis, which began in 2020. Producers had an overabundance in supply with no place to store it, as the world experienced lockdowns cutting down demand. This, along with a price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia, led to a drop in oil prices. As a result, the organization decided to cut production by 9.7 million barrels per day between May and July 2020. Oil prices continued to experience volatility, leading OPEC to adjust production levels to 7.2 million barrels per day as of January 2021.



OPEC faces considerable challenges from innovation and new, green technology. High oil prices are causing some oil-importing countries to look to unconventional—and cleaner—sources of energy. These alternatives, such as shale production as an alternative energy source, and hybrid and electric cars that reduce the dependence on petroleum products, continue to put pressure on the organization.


   OPEC+  

OPEC+ is a group that comprises the 13 member countries of OPEC and other oil-producing countries. These countries include Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Brunei, Equatorial Guinea, Kazakhstan, Russia, Mexico, Malaysia, South Sudan, Sudan, and Oman.



This group was established in 2016—a time when the economy was seeing significantly low oil prices. The purpose was to help bring stability to the global market. Together, OPEC+ nations boast 90% of the world's oil reserves.




What Are the Main Goals of OPEC?
OPEC's main goal is to maintain oil prices at a profitable level for its members while keeping the market as free as possible from restrictions. The organization ensures its members receive a steady stream of income from an uninterrupted supply of oil.




What Countries Are in OPEC?
OPEC is made up of 13 member nations. The five founding members are Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela, while the other full members include Algeria, Angola, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Libya, Nigeria, and the United Arab Emirates.




Is the U.S. Part of OPEC?
The United States is not part of OPEC. This means that the country has control over its own production and supply without any interference from the organization.




Who Left OPEC?
Countries that left OPEC include Ecuador, which withdrew from the organization in 2020, Qatar, which terminated its membership in 2019, and Indonesia, which suspended its membership in 2016.




What Is OPEC+?
In December 2016, OPEC formed an alliance with other oil-exporting nations that were not a part of the organization, creating an entity that is commonly referred to as OPEC+, or OPEC Plus. Prominent members of OPEC+ include Russia, Mexico, and Kazakhstan. Working in coordination with additional oil-exporting countries makes the organization even more influential when it comes to international energy prices and the global economy.


   The Bottom Line  

OPEC is an organization that controls petroleum production, supplies, and prices in the global market. The group was established in 1960 and is made up of 13 different oil-producing companies. It holds considerable influence in the marketplace and is often criticized for inflating oil prices to the benefit of its members. But it isn't immune to challenges, notably geopolitical tensions, oversupply and drops in demand, and the adoption of new, green technologies.
What Is Organizational Behavior (OB)?  

Organizational behavior is the academic study of how people interact within groups. The principles of the study of organizational behavior are applied primarily in attempts to make businesses operate more effectively.





Key Takeaways

Organizational behavior is the academic study of how people interact within groups and its principles are applied primarily in attempts to make businesses operate more effectively.The study of organizational behavior includes areas of research dedicated to improving job performance, increasing job satisfaction, promoting innovation, and encouraging leadership and is a foundation of corporate human resources.The Hawthorne Effect, which describes the way test subjects' behavior may change when they know they are being observed, is the best-known study of organizational behavior.Organizational behavior is embedded in human resources such as employee retention, engagement, training, and culture.Organizational behavior is a subset of organizational theory which studies a more holistic way of structuring a company and managing its resources.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   Understanding Organizational Behavior (OB)  

The study of organizational behavior includes areas of research dedicated to improving job performance, increasing job satisfaction, promoting innovation, and encouraging leadership. Each has its own recommended actions, such as reorganizing groups, modifying compensation structures, or changing methods of performance evaluation.


  Organizational Behavior Origins  

The study of organizational behavior has its roots in the late 1920s, when the Western Electric Company launched a now-famous series of studies of the behavior of workers at its Hawthorne Works plant in Cicero, Ill.



Researchers there set out to determine whether workers could be made to be more productive if their environment was upgraded with better lighting and other design improvements. To their surprise, the researchers found that the environment was less important than social factors. It was more important, for example, that people got along with their co-workers and felt their bosses appreciated them.



Those initial findings inspired a series of wide-ranging studies between 1924 and 1933. They included the effects on productivity of work breaks, isolation, and lighting, among many other factors.



The Hawthorne Effect—which describes the way test subjects' behavior may change when they know they are being observed—is the best-known study of organizational behavior. Researchers are taught to consider whether or not (and to what degree) the Hawthorne Effect may skew their findings on human behavior.



Organizational behavior was not fully recognized by the American Psychological Association as a field of academic study until the 1970s. However, the Hawthorne research is credited for validating organizational behavior as a legitimate field of study, and it's the foundation of the human resources (HR) profession as we now know it.


  Evolution of Organization Behavior  

The leaders of the Hawthorne study had a couple of radical notions. They thought they could use the techniques of scientific observation to increase an employee's amount and quality of work, and they did not look at workers as interchangeable resources. Workers, they thought, were unique in terms of their psychology and potential fit within a company.



Over the following years, the concept of organizational behavior widened. Beginning with World War II, researchers began focusing on logistics and management science. Studies by the Carnegie School in the 1950s and 1960s solidified these rationalist approaches to decision-making.



Today, those and other studies have evolved into modern theories of business structure and decision-making. The new frontiers of organizational behavior are the cultural components of organizations, such as how race, class, and gender roles affect group building and productivity. These studies take into account how identity and background inform decision-making.






Organizational behavior is no different than other forms of psychological behavior analysis. It simply emphasizes how individuals operate and work together within a business setting.


   Learning Organizational Behavior  

Academic programs focusing on organizational behavior are found in business schools, as well as at schools of social work and psychology. These programs draw from the fields of anthropology, ethnography, and leadership studies, and use quantitative, qualitative, and computer models as methods to explore and test ideas.



Depending on the program, one can study specific topics within organizational behavior or broader fields within it. Specific topics covered include cognition, decision-making, learning, motivation, negotiation, impressions, group process, stereotyping, and power and influence. The broader study areas include social systems, the dynamics of change, markets, relationships between organizations and their environments, how social movements influence markets, and the power of social networks.


   Organizational Behavior Study Methods  

Organizational behavior can be studied using a variety of methods to collect data. Surveys are a popular research method in organizational behavior research. They involve asking individuals to answer a set of questions, often using a Likert scale. The goal of the survey is to gather quantitative data on attitudes, behaviors, and perceptions related to a particular topic. In a similar manner, companies may perform interviews to gather data about individuals' experiences, attitudes, and perceptions.



Companies can also gather data without directly interacting with study subjects. Observations involve watching individuals in real-life settings to gather data on their behaviors, interactions, and decision-making processes. Meanwhile, a company can perform case studies to perform an in-depth examination of a particular organization, group, or individual.



In situations where there isn't really precedent, companies can study organizational behavior by running experiments. By manipulating one or more variables at a time to observe the effect on a particular outcome, a company can get the best sense of how organizational behavior tweaks change employee disposition.






Organizational behavior data can be quantitative or qualitative.


   Organizational Behavior and HR  

Organizational behavior is an especially important aspect to human resources. By better understanding how and why individuals perform in a certain way, organizations can better recruit, retain, and deploy workers to achieve its mission. The specific aspects of organizational behavior relating to HR are listed below.


  Recruitment  

Organizational behavior research is used to identify the skills, abilities, and traits that are essential for a job. This information is used to develop job descriptions, selection criteria, and assessment tools to help HR managers identify the best candidates for a position. This is especially true for roles that may have technical aspects but rely heavier on soft skills.


  Training  

Organizational behavior can be used to design and deliver training and development programs that enhance employees' skills. These programs can focus on topics such as communication, leadership, teamwork, and diversity and inclusion. In addition, organizational behavior can be used to be better understand how each individual may uniquely approach a training, allowing for more customized approaches based on different styles.


  Performance Management  

Organizational behavior is used to develop performance management systems that align employee goals with organizational objectives. These systems often include performance metrics, feedback mechanisms, and performance appraisal processes. By leveraging organizational behavior, a company can better understand how its personnel will work towards common goals and what can be achieved.


  Employee Engagement  

Organizational behavior is used to develop strategies to improve employee engagement and motivation. These strategies can include recognition and rewards programs, employee involvement initiatives, and career development opportunities. Due to the financial incentives of earning a paycheck, organizational behavior strives to go beyond incentivizing individuals with a paycheck and understanding ways to enhance the workplace with other interests.


  Culture  

Organizational behavior research is used to develop and maintain a positive organizational culture. This includes devising strategies that supports employee well-being, trust, and a shared vision for the future. As each individual may act in their own unique manner, it is up to organizational behavior to blend personalities, integrate backgrounds, and bring people together for a common cause.


   Organizational Behavior vs. Organizational Theory  

Organizational behavior and organizational theory are related fields of study, but they have some important differences. While organizational behavior is concerned with understanding and improving the behavior of individuals, organizational theory is concerned with developing and testing theories about how organizations function and how they can be structured effectively.



Organizational theory draws on concepts and theories from economics, sociology, political science, and other social sciences. It aims to understand how organizations are structured and how they operate. In some aspects, organizational behavior can be considered a subset of organizational theory.



Both fields are important for understanding and improving organizational performance, and they often overlap in their research topics and methods. However, organizational theory is often much broader and does not focus on individuals.


   Examples of Organizational Behavior  

Findings from organizational behavior research are used by executives and human relations professionals to better understand a business’s culture, how that culture helps or hinders productivity and employee retention, and how to evaluate candidates' skills and personality during the hiring process.



Organizational behavior theories inform the real-world evaluation and management of groups of people. There are several components:



Personality plays a large role in the way a person interacts with groups and produces work. Understanding a candidate's personality, either through tests or through conversation, helps determine whether they are a good fit for an organization.Leadership—what it looks like and where it comes from—is a rich topic of debate and study within the field of organizational behavior. Leadership can be broad, focused, centralized or de-centralized, decision-oriented, intrinsic in a person’s personality, or simply a result of a position of authority.Power, authority, and politics all operate inter-dependently in a workplace. Understanding the appropriate ways these elements are exhibited and used, as agreed upon by workplace rules and ethical guidelines, are key components to running a cohesive business.




Why Is Organizational Behavior Important?
Organizational behavior describes how people interact with one another inside of an organization, such as a business. These interactions subsequently influence how the organization itself behaves and how well it performs. For businesses, organizational behavior is used to streamline efficiency, improve productivity, and spark innovation to give firms a competitive edge.




What Are the 4 Elements of Organizational Behavior?
The four elements of organizational behavior are people, structure, technology, and the external environment. By understanding how these elements interact with one another, improvements can be made. While some factors are more easily controlled by the organization—such as its structure or people hired—it still must be able to respond to external factors and changes in the economic environment.




What Are the 3 Levels of Organizational Behavior?
The first is the individual level, which involves organizational psychology and understanding human behavior and incentives. The second level is groups, which involves social psychology and sociological insights into human interaction and group dynamics. The top-level is the organizational level, where organization theory and sociology come into play to undertake systems-level analyses and the study of how firms engage with one another in the marketplace.




What Are Some Common Problems that Organizational Behavior Tries to Solve?
Organizational behavior can be used by managers and consultants to improve the performance of an organization and to address certain key issues that commonly arise. These may include a lack of direction or strategic vision for a company, difficulty getting employees on board with that vision, pacifying workplace conflict or creating a more amenable work environment, issues with training employees, poor communication or feedback, and so on.


   The Bottom Line  

Organizational behavior is the study of human behavior in an organizational setting. This includes how individuals interact with each other in addition to how individuals interact with the organization itself. Organizational behavior is a critical part of human resources, though it is embedded across a company.
What Is an Organizational Chart?  

An organizational chart is a diagram that visually conveys a company's internal structure by detailing the roles, responsibilities, and relationships between individuals within an entity. It is one way to visualize a bureaucracy.



Organizational charts are alternatively referred to as "org charts" or "organization charts."





Key Takeaways

An organizational chart graphically represents an organization's structure, highlighting the different jobs, departments, and responsibilities that connect the company's employees to each other and to the management team.Organizational charts can be broad-based, depicting the overall company, or can be department- or unit-specific, focusing on one spoke on the wheel.Most org charts are structured by using the "hierarchical" model, which shows management or other high-ranking officials on top, and lower-level employees beneath them.Other types of charts include the flat org chart, the matrix chart, and the divisional org chart. 


   Understanding Organizational Charts  

Organizational charts either broadly depict an enterprise organization-wide, or drill down to a specific department or unit.



Organizational charts graphically display an employee's hierarchical status relative to other individuals within the company. For example, an assistant director will invariably fall directly below a director on the chart, indicating that the former reports to the latter. Organizational charts use simple symbols such as lines, squares, and circles to connect different job titles that relate to each other.



Regardless of an organization's structure, org charts are extraordinarily useful when an entity is contemplating restructuring its workforce or changing its management complex. Most importantly, org charts let employees transparently see how their roles fit into the overall company structure.


   Hierarchical Organizational Chart  

This most common model situates the highest-ranking individuals atop the chart and positions lower-ranking individuals below them. Organizational hierarchies generally depend on the industry, geographical location, and company size.



For example, a public company typically shows shareholders in the highest box, followed by the following in descending vertical order:



Chair of the board of directors
Vice-chair of the board
Board members
Chief executive officer (CEO)
Other C-suite executives (joined to one another by horizontal lines)



Other job titles that may follow c-suite execs include:



PresidentSenior vice presidentVice presidentAssistant vice presidentSenior directorAssistant directorManagerAssistant managerFull-time employeesPart-time employeesContractors



Many formal organizations are organized hierarchically and can be shown in chart form. These include corporations but also nonprofits, governments, schools & universities, and the military (as the chart below illustrates).















From Army to Squad.
.mil






There is no single correct way to fashion an organization chart, as long as it identifies the officials, employees, departments, and functions of the firm, and how they interact with each other.


   Other Types of Organization Charts  

Flat — also known as a "horizontal" chart, the flat org chart positions individuals on the same level, indicating more power equality and autonomous decision-making ability than is typical with employees in hierarchical corporations.Matrix — This more complicated organizational structure groups individuals by their common skill-sets, the departments in which they work, and the people they may report to. Matrix charts often interconnect employees and teams with more than one manager, such as a software developer who is working on two projects—one with their regular team manager, and another with a separate product manager. In this scenario, the matrix chart would connect the software developer to each manager they are working with, with vertical lines.Divisional — This chart subdivides the company based on some specific criteria. It could be by product lines offered or geographic regions. An example would be an auto manufacturer organizing its company by product type. The respective divisions would have a certain autonomy but this would likely incur additional overhead cost.




What Should an Organizational Chart Show?
An organizational chart should visually show what the hierarchical status of a particular employee relative to other individuals within the company. For example, an assistant director will invariably fall directly below a director on the chart, indicating that the former reports to the latter. 




Why Is an Organizational Chart Important?
Org charts depict an organization's hierarchy, which can clearly identify seniority and lines of authority that ought to be followed. It can also show which roles are responsible for what tasks, divisions, departments, or regions. This can remove ambiguity and improve communication.




What Are the Most Commonly Used Organizational Charts?
The two types of organizational chart formats that are most often used are hierarchical and flat. Hierarchical is the most common and it shows the ranking of individuals based on their role in the company in a descending vertical order. A flat format, also known as a "horizontal" organizational chart, places all individuals on the same level, and is indicative of an autonomous decision-making ability where this power is equally shared.




How Do I Make an Organizational Chart?
There are software packages and web templates available to help make an organizational chart. You can even produce one by hand. The key is to depict the organization's hierarchy, with more senior positions at the top. Underneath each position should be subordinate positions and roles, which may be segregated by division or department. Depending on how the organization is structured in reality, the chart should approximate it.




What Are Other Types of Organizational Charts?
Less commonly used, but still effective in defining roles, are the matrix and divisional organizational charts. The matrix organizational chart groups individuals by their common skill-sets, the departments in which they work, and the people they report to. It is dubbed "matrix" as it shows employees and teams interconnecting with more than one manager. Divisional would show the organization of a company based on some specific criteria, say a product line or geographical area. For example, an auto manufacturer might be organized based on the different types of products they offer.


   The Bottom Line  

Organizational charts allow one to visually understand an organization's structure and hierarchy. This can give an overview of how information and instructions are deployed through organizations, which can range from government bodies to corporations to the military. The most senior positions appear at the top of the chart with subordinate roles falling under them. The chart's appearance and flow will vary depending on an organization's size and how its roles are arranged.
What Is Organizational Economics?  

Organizational economics is a branch of applied economics and New Institutional Economics that studies the transactions occurring within individual firms, as opposed to the transactions that occur within the greater market. Organizational economists study how economic incentives, institutional characteristics, and transaction costs influence the choices made within firms and the structure and market performance of firms.



Organizational economics can include theories from several different streams of economic thought. These include agency theory, transaction cost economics, contract or property rights theory, theories of the firm, strategic management studies, and theories of entrepreneurship. Theory and research in organizational economics often incorporate insights, concepts, and methods from disciplines other than economics, too, including psychology and sociology. Courses in organizational economics are usually taught at the graduate or doctoral level.





Key Takeaways

Organizational economics is used to study transactions within individual firms and determine management approaches to managing resources.It can involve a wide variety of ideas and theories including agency theory, transaction cost economics, and property rights theory.Insights from organizational economics provide a method for causal analysis of critical motivations and decisions in an organization.


   Understanding Organizational Economics  

Organizational economics is useful in developing a firm's human resource management policies; determining how a firm should be organized; analyzing the size, scope, and boundaries of the firm; setting appropriate compensation, pay, and incentives; assessing business risk; and making, analyzing and improving management decisions.



Popular approaches among organizational economists include:



Agency theory: Studying the implications of information asymmetries between owners, managers, and employees of businesses.
Transaction cost economics: Studying the role that transaction costs such as information costs, bargaining costs, contract enforcement costs, and relationship-specific investments play in organizational structure and decisions.
The property rights approach: Studying the distribution of decision rights based on the incompleteness of contracts within and across organizations.


   Organizational Economics and the Deepwater Horizon  

Applying organizational economics can reveal both the weaknesses of a current management approach and ways to effect change. Looking at the subfields that comprise this method offers a way to understand the motivations and decisions that lead to operational decisions within an organization. For example, organizational economics could be used to assess why the 2010 BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was able to occur and how a similar disaster could be prevented in the future.



For instance, drawing in the agency theory subfield, an assessment can be made about the incentives that were in place prior to the 2010 BP oil spill, what drove those choices leading up to the incident, and whether the agents involved felt compelled to operate under those conditions. Furthermore, there can be an examination of why the principals at BP may or may not have been aware of the issues and motivations at play with the agents on the oil rig.



Under the transactions cost economics subfield, an assessment could be made about any transaction costs that might have been made regarding the safe operation of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig and how those choices may have affected the disaster. In this incident, information about the safety and risks of the operations were a factor and the transaction costs of communicating the relevant information between BP and the rig operators may have contributed to the disaster.



Applying the property rights theory subfield, the necessary incompleteness of the relations within BP and between BP and the contractor operating the rig may have played a role. The incompleteness of contracts means that someone has to exercise discretion to decide in matters that are not specified in a contract, so residual control and decision rights matter quite a bit. How these decision rights were distributed and how that distribution matched up with information and incentives of the various players may have played a role.
What Is an Organizational Structure?  

An organizational structure is a system that outlines how certain activities are directed in order to achieve the goals of an organization. These activities can include rules, roles, and responsibilities.



The organizational structure also determines how information flows between levels within the company. For example, in a centralized structure, decisions flow from the top down, while in a decentralized structure, decision-making power is distributed among various levels of the organization. Having an organizational structure in place allows companies to remain efficient and focused.





Key Takeaways

An organizational structure outlines how certain activities are directed to achieve the goals of an organization.Successful organizational structures define each employee's job and how it fits within the overall system.A centralized structure has a defined chain of command, while decentralized structures give almost every employee receiving a high level of personal agency.Types of organizational structures include functional, divisional, flatarchy, and matrix structures.Senior leaders should consider a variety of factors before deciding which type of organization is best for their business, including the business goals, industry, and culture of the company.


   Understanding an Organizational Structure  

Businesses of all shapes and sizes use organizational structures heavily. They define a specific hierarchy within an organization. A successful organizational structure defines each employee's job and how it fits within the overall system. Put simply, the organizational structure lays out who does what so the company can meet its objectives.



This structuring provides a company with a visual representation of how it is shaped and how it can best move forward in achieving its goals. Organizational structures are normally illustrated in some sort of chart or diagram like a pyramid, where the most powerful members of the organization sit at the top, while those with the least amount of power are at the bottom.



Not having a formal structure in place may prove difficult for certain organizations. For instance, employees may have difficulty knowing to whom they should report. That can lead to uncertainty as to who is responsible for what in the organization.



Having a structure in place can help with efficiency and provide clarity for everyone at every level. That also means each and every department can be more productive, as they are likely to be more focused on energy and time.


   Centralized vs. Decentralized Organizational Structures  

An organizational structure is either centralized or decentralized. Traditionally, organizations have been structured with centralized leadership and a defined chain of command. The military is an organization famous for its highly centralized structure, with a long and specific hierarchy of superiors and subordinates. In a centralized organizational system, there are very clear responsibilities for each role, with subordinate roles defaulting to the guidance of their superiors.



There has been a rise in decentralized organizations, as is the case with many technology startups. This allows companies to remain fast, agile, and adaptable, with almost every employee receiving a high level of personal agency. For example, Johnson & Johnson is a company that's known for its decentralized structure.



As a large company with over 200 business units and brands that function in sometimes very different industries, each operates autonomously. Even in decentralized companies, there are still usually built-in hierarchies (such as the chief operating officer operating at a higher level than an entry-level associate). However, teams are empowered to make their own decisions and come to the best conclusion without necessarily getting "approval" from up top.


   Types of Organizational Structures  
  Functional Structure  

Four types of common organizational structures are implemented in the real world. The first and most common is a functional structure. This is also referred to as a bureaucratic organizational structure and breaks up a company based on the specialization of its workforce. Most small-to-medium-sized businesses implement a functional structure. Dividing the firm into departments consisting of marketing, sales, and operations is the act of using a bureaucratic organizational structure.


  Divisional or Multidivisional Structure  

The second type is common among large companies with many business units. Called the divisional or multidivisional (M-Form) structure, a company that uses this method structures its leadership team based on the products, projects, or subsidiaries they operate. A good example of this structure is Johnson & Johnson. With thousands of products and lines of business, the company structures itself so each business unit operates as its own company with its own president.



Divisions may also be designated geographically in addition to specialization. For instance, a global corporation may have a North American Division and a European Division.


  Team-Based  

Similar to divisional or functional structures, team-based organizations segregate into close-knit teams of employees that serve particular goals and functions, but where each team is a unit that contains both leaders and workers.


  Flat (Flatarchy) Structure  

Flatarchy, also known as a horizontal structure, is relatively newer, and is used among many startups. As the name alludes, it flattens the hierarchy and chain of command and gives its employees a lot of autonomy. Companies that use this type of structure have a high speed of implementation.


  Matrix Structure  

Firms can also have a matrix structure. It is also the most confusing and the least used. This structure matrixes employees across different superiors, divisions, or departments. An employee working for a matrixed company, for example, may have duties in both sales and customer service.


  Circular Structure  

Circular structures are hierarchical, but they are said to be circular as it places higher-level employees and managers at the center of the organization with concentric rings expanding outward, which contain lower-level employees and staff. This way of organizing is intended to encourage open communication and collaboration among the different ranks.


  Network Structure  

The network structure organizes contractors and third-party vendors to carry out certain key functions. It features a relatively small headquarters with geographically-dispersed satellite offices, along with key functions outsourced to other firms and consultants.


   Benefits of Organizational Structures  

Putting an organizational structure in place can be very beneficial to a company. The structure not only defines a company's hierarchy but also allows the firm to lay out the pay structure for its employees. By putting the organizational structure in place, the firm can decide salary grades and ranges for each position.



The structure also makes operations more efficient and much more effective. By separating employees and functions into different departments, the company can perform different operations at once seamlessly.



In addition, a very clear organizational structure informs employees on how best to get their jobs done. For example, in a hierarchical organization, employees will have to work harder at buying favor or courting those with decision-making power. In a decentralized organization, employees must take on more initiative and bring creative problem solving to the table. This can also help set expectations for how employees can track their own growth within a company and emphasize a certain set of skills—as well as for potential employees to gauge if such a company would be a good fit with their own interests and work styles.




What Are Some Types of Organizational Structures?
The four types of organizational structures are functional, multi-divisional, flat, and matrix structures. Others include circular, team-based, and network structures.




What Are the Key Elements of an Organizational Structure?
Key elements of an organizational structure include how certain activities are directed in order to achieve the goals of an organization, such as rules, roles, responsibilities, and how information flows between levels within the company.




What Is an Organizational Structure Example?
An example of an organizational structure is a decentralized structure, which gives individuals and teams high degrees of autonomy without needing a core team to regularly approve business decisions. A good example of this decentralized structure is Johnson & Johnson. With thousands of products and lines of business, the company structures itself so each business unit operates as its own company with its own president.




What Is an Organizational Structure Chart?
Organizational structures are normally illustrated in some sort of chart or diagram like a pyramid, where the most powerful members of the organization sit at the top, while those with the least amount of power are at the bottom.




What Is the Best Organizational Structure?
There is no one best organizational structure, as it depends on the nature of the company and the industry it operates in.


   The Bottom Line  

There are entire fields of study based on how to optimize and best structure organizations to be the most effective and productive. Senior leaders should consider a variety of factors before deciding which type of organization is best for their business, including the business goals, industry, and culture of the company.
What Is Organized Labor?  

Organized labor is a strategy of workers joining together to engage in collective bargaining for higher wages, job benefits, or better working conditions. Organized labor associations are also known as unions.





Key Takeaways

Organized labor is a strategy where workers join unions to engage in collective bargaining with their employers.Organized labor has been credited with higher wages, fewer hours, and improved benefits for workers in many industries.In most countries, union formation is regulated by a government agency, such as the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in the United States.In most countries, workers seeking to unionize must collect a set number of signatures before holding a union election in their workplace.Many companies try to discourage workers from joining unions because they will increase the cost of labor.


   How Organized Labor Works  

Workers participate in organized labor by joining a union that negotiates with their employer on their behalf. Because unions represent a large number of workers, they are able to extract higher salaries and benefits than most workers could get by negotiating alone.



In most countries, union formation is regulated by a government agency, such as the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in the United States. Employees who want to organize their workplace must first sign a union card granting the union the right to represent them.



Once a workplace has enough signatures, workers can file for a union election in that workplace. If a majority of non-management employees vote for the union, it will be given the power to negotiate with management on behalf of all employees. There are two types of unions: the horizontal union, in which all members share a common skill, and the vertical union, composed of workers from across the same industry.



The National Education Association (NEA) is the largest labor union in the United States, with nearly three million members. Its goal is to advocate for education professionals and unite its members to fulfill the promise of public education.






Federal law prohibits employers from punishing or retaliating against any employee for union activities.


   History of Organized Labor  

Organized labor grew out of the industrial revolution. As production shifted from agriculture to increasingly-large factories, the pursuit of higher profits led to strenuous working conditions and long hours.



In the early days of industrialization, it was not uncommon for employees to be on the job seven days a week, working shifts of twelve or even fourteen hours. Since workers could be easily replaced, they could not demand better working conditions and were often fired if they were injured on the job. Child labor, wage theft, and other unfair practices were also common.





14 million

There were 14 million unionized workers in the United States in 2021. That's 10.3% of the total workforce.



The first successful unions in the United States organized skilled laborers, such as railway workers. The American Federation of Labor, founded in 1881, sought to bring together the country's nascent trade unions under a single association. At the same time, radical unions like the Industrial Workers of the World sought to organize all workers, regardless of their skill.



Employers fiercely resisted unionization efforts, often using strikebreakers and lockouts to prevent workers from organizing. In some cases, government and police authorities used violence to quell labor unrest.



Ultimately, organized labor was able to win significant improvements, such as the eight-hour day, paid weekends, and job security. The Wagner Act, signed by Franklin Roosevelt in 1935, enshrined the rights of workers to organize and form unions.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Organized Labor  

Organized labor plays an important role in protecting workers' rights. Advocates claim that workers in unionized industries typically enjoy higher salaries, longer vacations, and better benefits than those who are not represented by a union. Even workers who are not members of the union tend to have higher salaries as a result of union activity.



Naturally, companies are less enthusiastic about organized labor. Some say that the increased cost of a unionized workforce increases the price of their products, ultimately making their companies less competitive on the world market. Many point to the decline of the U.S. auto industry, as companies were unable to pivot effectively due to the cost of adhering to their union contracts.



Some companies, such as Starbucks or Amazon, have each spent millions of dollars to defeat union organization efforts. Walmart, for example, claimed that the increased costs of a unionized workforce would require them to increase their prices.



Other retailers used Walmart’s example as leverage to renegotiate with their unions, claiming that they would have to cut salaries or eliminate jobs to remain competitive with Walmart otherwise. This is known as the Walmart effect.




Organized Labor Pros and Cons

Pros

Unions can negotiate higher salaries and benefits than most workers can negotiate on their own.
Union negotiations can result in higher salaries, even for those who are not union members.



Cons

High union salaries increase the cost of company products.
Unionized companies may have to reduce employment numbers in order to remain competitive.







What Is the Main Purpose of Organized Labor?
The main purpose of organized labor is to improve the conditions and economic power of the working class. Unions can negotiate on behalf of their members for higher wages, better benefits, or protection from termination. In addition, they also lobby for better labor laws with legislators and politicians.




Was Organized Labor Successful?
In the United States, organized labor successfully improved the lives of millions of workers in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors. By 1979, union membership was considered a fast ticket to the middle class, and there were over 20 million union members in the United States.




What Caused the Decline of Organized Labor?
In the United States, organized labor began to decline in the 1980s due to anti-union government policies and increased competition from abroad. One of the first acts of the Reagan administration was to fire all 11,300 air traffic controllers who were on strike against the Federal Aviation Administration. In the following decades, free trade agreements and globalization made it easier for companies to outsource their operations to foreign labor markets, thereby reducing the bargaining power of domestic unions.


   The Bottom Line  

Organized labor represents a major political force for the working class. By joining together to advocate for their shared goals, unionized workers can negotiate for better wages and working conditions. However, the strength of organized labor has declined in recent decades, largely due to increased competition from low-wage workers abroad.
What Is Original Cost?  

Original cost is the total price associated with the purchase of an asset. The original cost of an asset takes into consideration all of the items that can be attributed to its purchase and to putting the asset to use. These costs include the purchase price and such factors as commissions, transportation, appraisals, warranties and installation and testing. Original cost can be used to value an asset type, including equipment, real estate and security instruments.



Original cost is also known as an asset's cost basis for tax purposes.


   Understanding Original Cost  

Original cost includes all quantifiable facets of a purchased asset. For example, a company purchases of a piece of equipment with a price tag of $20,000. The purchase also involves $1,000 in fees, $700 in shipping and delivery costs, and $3,000 for installation and warranty. The original cost of this piece of equipment would be $20,000 + $1,000 + $700 + $3,000 = $24,700. Also known as historical cost, a common term in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this is the original cost recorded on the balance sheet. The balance sheet and notes to financial statements will separate historical cost property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and accumulated depreciation of these long-term assets. The difference is known as carrying value.


   Original Cost and Depreciation  

Determining an asset's original cost is important in calculating the asset's tax basis. The original cost of an asset encompasses more than the asset's purchase price, and the costs added together can reduce the potential taxable gain on the sale of the asset. The tax basis can be calculated by taking the original cost and subtracting the accumulated depreciation of the asset.



For the piece of equipment above, suppose accumulated depreciation is $14,700. The carrying value on the company's books would be $10,000 ($24,700 original cost less $14,700 accumulated depreciation). If the company sells the asset for $15,000, it would record a gain on asset sale of $5,000.
What Is an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)?  

An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) is a company whose goods are used as components in the products of another company, known as a value-added reseller (VAR). The VAR works closely with the OEM, which often customizes designs based on the VAR's needs and specifications.





Key Takeaways

An OEM provides components for the finished products of another company, known as a value-added reseller (VAR).OEMs usually focus on business-to-business sales, while VARs sell to the public or other end users.OEM parts often compete with generic, aftermarket, replacement parts. An OEM differs from an original design manufacturer (ODM), a company that customizes its products for resale.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding OEM  

OEMs make parts to sell to VARs. Although some OEMs make complete items for a VAR to market, they usually don't determine the finished product. An OEM may manufacture electronic components for a company like Samsung, the VAR that makes HDTVs. An OEM may sell customized fasteners to Ralph Lauren with the branded monogram RL.



Traditionally, OEMs focus on business-to-business sales, while VARs target the public or end users. Car parts, such as exhaust systems or brake cylinders, are manufactured by OEMs. The OEM parts are then sold to an auto manufacturer, which assembles them into a car. The completed car is then marketed to auto dealers to be sold to individual consumers. However, OEMs may also sell to the general public. An individual can buy OEM parts directly from the manufacturer or a retailer who stocks those parts to make car repairs.


   OEM vs. Aftermarket  

The aftermarket is the market for replacement parts, accessories, and equipment for the care of the original product, such as an automobile, after it has been sold to a consumer. The OEM manufactured the original parts, but the aftermarket equipment is made by another company that a consumer buys as a replacement.






Aftermarket replacement parts are often reverse-engineered to be manufactured close to the original specification of the OEM part. 



A Ford car owner may need to replace a car thermostat manufactured by the OEM ABC Thermostats. The consumer may buy the OEM part, a duplicate of their original ABC thermostat, or an aftermarket or generic part made by another company.



Consumers often choose an OEM part over a generic one for consistency. However, some aftermarket equipment proves more successful than the OEM replacement. Hurst Performance, a manufacturer of gear shifters for automobiles, became known for their superior performance, and car buyers preferred them to the original part. Eventually, Hurst shifters were so trusted that manufacturers chose to install Hurst shifters in their factory designs, effectively turning Hurst into an original equipment manufacturer.


   Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) vs. Original Design Manufacturer (ODM)  

An OEM differs from an original design manufacturing (ODM), a type of private labeling for manufactured parts. An ODM produces a product to meet a client's specifications. The client labels and sells the product under a brand name.



An ODM does not have as much flexibility as an OEM since the client customizes a design. However, original design manufacturing has lower costs for research and development, leading to lower prices for the end consumer. ODM products typically have a lower minimum order quantity, making them more attractive to smaller clients.


   Technology and OEM  

OEM can sometimes be used as an adjective, as in "OEM parts," or as a verb, such as when a manufacturer plans to "OEM" a new product. This evolution can be attributed to the computer hardware industry.



VAR companies such as Dell and Hewlett Packard accepted branded parts from outside sources in their products over time. In the tech industry, OEM became synonymous with companies that rebrand or openly use other manufacturers' products for resale. This reflected a shift in the manufacturing dynamics and defined which company was responsible for warranties, customer support, and other services.



As Dell incorporated Intel processors in its computers, Dell advertised that it had "Intel Inside!" and marketing materials suggested that Intel and Dell were equal partners in the processor and computer design. Dell was considered the OEM, both in the minds of companies and the public.




What Does Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Mean in Cars?
In the auto repair industry, OEM parts are those products used by a car manufacturer. Aftermarket parts are made by a third-party manufacturer but may be compatible with the same vehicles.




What Does Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Mean in Software?
In computer and electronics sales, OEM refers to the software or hardware pre-installed on a new computer or device.




Is It Worth Paying for OEM Parts?
OEM parts tend to be more expensive than third-party manufacturers but are made to a more exact set of specifications. Some third-party products are considered as reliable as OEM parts, and others may be significantly cheaper. When searching for replacements, consumers should research different brands to determine which manufacturer offers the best combination of price and quality.


   The Bottom Line  

An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) provides components for the finished products of a value-added reseller (VAR). OEMs manufacture for business-to-business sales, while VARs sell to the public or other end users. OEM parts often compete with aftermarket replacement parts after the product has been sold to the consumer.
What Is Original Face?  

Original face is the par value of a mortgage-backed security (MBS) at the time it is issued. An MBS is an investment that contains a number of mortgage home loans from various banks in which investors earn income from those loans.



The original face is the total principal amount originally owed on all of the mortgage loans and represents how much the MBS is initially worth. Original face is also referred to as original face value.



The mortgage-backed security's original face value is helpful since it tells investors the initial total of all of the loans within the MBS. However, the original face value does not provide investors with the value of the MBS in the future.





Key Takeaways

Original face is the total outstanding balance of a mortgage-backed security (MBS) at the time it is issued.Over time, the outstanding balance declines as the underlying loans are repaid, resulting in a lower current value versus the original face value.Mortgage-backed securities with the same issue date and original face can have different current values due to the varying pace of loan repayments.


   Understanding Original Face  

Mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) are home loans that are sold by their issuing banks to a government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) or financial company and then bundled together into a single investable security. Unlike most other types of bonds, mortgage-backed securities return both principal and interest to the holder in periodic payments, usually on a monthly basis.



When an MBS is initially structured, the par value given to the pool is called the original face—the total outstanding balance at the time of its inception. Over time, this balance is reduced as borrowers make payments on their loans, resulting in a lower actual value of the MBS versus the original face value.



An MBS can be tailored for a specific need. For instance, if an institutional investor made a request for a particular face value in addition to other characteristics, the issuer would do its best to match that request. 



Because mortgages don't always come in easily rounded numbers, especially when investors are looking for a particular borrower profile, the targeted original face and the actual original face will likely be a bit different. This is referred to as variance. Usually, the variance is fairly minimal, such as a $1 million MBS coming in with a $1,010,000 original face.


   Original Face vs. Current Face   

Once borrowers begin to make payments, the total outstanding balance owed on the MBS decreases, and this value is referred to as the current face value.



While the original face value remains fixed since it represents the initial value of the total loans outstanding within the MBS, the current face value changes over time. The mortgage-backed security's current face value is, in part, driven by borrowers making loan payments or paying off their loans early.


   Original Face and Pool Factor  

The pool factor is a measure of how much of the original loan principal remains and can be calculated by taking the current face and dividing it by the original face value. A newly issued MBS will have a pool factor of one at inception, meaning the original face will equal the current face. If 50% of the mortgages have been paid down, the MBS would have a 0.50 pool factor.



Investors monitor both the current face and the forecasted pool factor of an MBS to determine the predictability of the income stream from the security. Loans that are being paid down early—called prepayments—can accelerate the pool factor and reduce the current face value. Conversely, borrowers who are behind on their payments also impact the pool factor and the current face value.






Mortgage-backed securities start life with an original face value and a pool factor of one, which moves toward zero over time as payments are made on the underlying mortgages.


  Mortgage Refinancing  

When interest rates are low, and it becomes cheaper to borrow, homeowners are incentivized to refinance their mortgages, resulting in higher levels of prepayment of the original loans within the MBS. This increase will show in the pool factor as the outstanding principal balance (current face) shrinks faster than in previous months, and the pool factor drops further than its normal monthly average.


  Interest Rate Risk  

MBS investors generally do not want to see the pool factor dropping faster than planned because it results in a lower overall return for them. When a loan's principal is paid off early, future interest payments will not be paid on that part of the principal.



Quicker repayments as a result of mortgage refinancing also leave investors suddenly finding themselves with money they need to reinvest. If it's a declining interest-rate environment, investors are stuck with lower-yielding assets that pay a lower return than the MBS they had initially purchased.


   Benefits of Original Face  

The original face gives investors the option to choose how much money they potentially want to earn from an investment. Later on down the line, the figure continues to be consulted as a key reference point, enabling investors to establish how an MBS is doing now compared to when it first started out—and determine its return on investment (ROI).



The original face is used by traders and investors in modeling and determining valuations of an MBS over its lifetime. Identifying the original face value of an MBS at its time of inception and then comparing the value to the current face should provide an idea of how reliable those valuation assumptions were at the onset.



Looking at both original and current face values can reveal, for example, whether the assumed prepayment rate was accurate and if the valuation is higher or lower than it should be in light of the actual prepayment risk to date.
What Is an Original Issue Discount (OID)?  

An original issue discount (OID) is the discount in price from a bond's face value at the time a bond or other debt instrument is first issued.



Bonds can be issued at a price lower than their face value—known as a discount. The OID is the amount of discount or the difference between the original face value and the price paid for the bond.



Original issue discounts are used by bond issuers to attract buyers to purchase their bonds so that the issuers can raise funds for their business. Many zero-coupon bonds use large OIDs to entice buyers to their products.





Key Takeaways

The original issue discount (OID) is the difference between the original face value amount and the discounted price paid for a bond.OID bonds have the potential for gains since investors can buy the bonds for a lower price than their face value.OID bonds sold at a discount could indicate an issuer is facing financial difficulty and default is possible.


   How an Original Issue Discount (OID) Works  

Once purchased, the bond's issuer usually pays the bondholder an interest rate—called a coupon—while the investor holds the bond. Periodically, the bondholder receives interest payments based on the rate of the bond. When the bond reaches maturity, the investor gets the return of the face value paid for the bond.



However, some bonds sell for a price less than the face or par value of the note. The OID is the difference between the price paid for a bond and its face value. The OID may be considered interest since the buyer is paid the face value of the bond at maturity even though the purchase price was lower than the face value.



For example, let's say that a bond has a $100 face value, meaning the investor would receive $100 returned at the maturity date. If the investor buys the bond for $95 and receives $100 at maturity, the OID is $5, which is the return on the investment.



As opposed to traditional bonds, the gain from the OID is only realized at maturity when the investor receives the return of the face value principal. In other words, the OID is paid as a total sum at maturity, along with the original amount invested.


   Formula and Calculation of OID  

The OID is the difference between the stated redemption price and the issuance price (the discounted offering price of the debt.)



OID = Redemption Price – Issuance Price



Redemption Price: The par value of the bonds (the amount obligated to be returned on the date of maturity.)Issuance Price: The offering price that the bonds were sold for on the date of sale.


  Example of How to Calculate OID  

Let's say that a company wants to raise $100,000 (redemption price) in the form of debt, but is willing to accept $90,000 in capital (issuance price). Therefore, the OID equals $10,000:



OID = $100,000 - $90,000 = $10,000


   OIDs and Interest Rates  

A company can have a bond that sells at a discount to its face value while it also pays periodic interest. However, the amount of OID tends to correlate with the interest rate on the bond inversely. In other words, the bigger the discount, the lower the coupon rate offered on the bond.



The reason for the negative correlation is that companies might issue a bond at a discount to its face value, so the company does not have to pay a regular, and ongoing higher interest rate to investors. Although interest earned on a bond is income for investors, it's an expense for companies.



Conversely, the higher the rate on a bond, the less it is likely to sell at a discount, and its OID, if any, would be smaller. If a bond's rate is attractive to investors, there will likely be many buyers and demand for the bond, so it's not likely it will sell for much of a discount.



Investors should understand that just because they are buying a bond at a discount, it does not mean it is a bargain. The return received for the OID may end up being less than the interest rate offered on a traditional fixed-rate bond. Comparison is important as the original issue discount plus the total of regular coupon payments must be higher than alternative fixed-rate products to make it a bargain.


   OIDs and Zero-Coupon Bonds  

The bonds with the highest original issue discounts are typically zero-coupon bonds. As the name indicates, these debt instruments do not pay a coupon interest payment. Without this to entice buyers, they must offer deeper discounts as compared to bonds that pay interest and sell at their face values. The only way for investors to earn income from a zero-coupon bond is from the difference between the bond's purchase price, and its face value at maturity.



Zero-coupon bonds save the costs of interest payments for the issuer at the expense of the lower initial selling price. Once the bonds mature, they are redeemed for full face value.



Since they don't pay a coupon, zero-coupon bonds are not affected by interest rate fluctuations. Typically, if interest rates rise significantly, existing fixed-rate bonds become less attractive, and their prices fall as investors sell them for higher-rate bonds elsewhere. Conversely, if interest rates fall significantly, existing fixed-rate bonds become more attractive, and their prices rise as investors rush to buy them.



Without the impact of changes to the market interest rate, some consider these investments low-risk. However, zero-coupon bonds are generally not as liquid, so there will be limited buyers and sellers on the secondary bond market.


   OIDs and Default Risk  

Just like you need to examine a sweater selling for a discount for flaws, the same care must be taken with OID bonds. One that is offering a large OID might be selling at a discount because the bond issuer is in financial distress. Also, a bond selling at a discount might mean there's a lack of investors willing to buy it for some reason. There may be an expectation the company might default on the bond. A default is when an issuer can no longer make interest payments or repay the principal amount that bondholders had initially invested.



If corporate bonds default, investors have little recourse. Although bondholders are paid before common stockholders in the event of a company's bankruptcy, there is no guarantee that the investor will receive the return of the full amount of their investment, if anything at all.



Although investors are compensated somewhat for their risk by being able to buy the bond at a discounted price, they should weigh the risks versus the rewards carefully.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of OID  


Original Issue Discount Pros and Cons

Pros

Investors pay less than the par value for an OID bond.
Zero-coupon bonds use large OIDs to entice investors.
OID bonds are less affected by fluctuations in interest rates.



Cons

Discounted bonds can indicate an issuer is facing financial difficulty.
The OID may not offset rates offered by traditional fixed-rate bonds.
Investors could face an annual tax liability before the bond matures.





   OIDs and Tax Liability  

It's important for investors to contact a tax professional or review the IRS tax code before investing in bonds that are considered original issue discounts. Since the OID on a bond is a type of interest and will serve as a source of income when it reaches maturity, the IRS may expect you to pay taxes on that money (the difference between the discounted purchase price and the face value).



Also, keep in mind that even though some OID bonds don’t pay any interest until they reach maturity, investors still may need to declare a portion of the income earned each year they hold the bond.



Each year, an OID bond’s holder receives a Form 1099-OID from the issuer of the bond if the interest accrued is $10 or more. The form will show how much the bond has accrued that year: that amount must be reported as income on the tax return. Since taxes are paid each year, OID bond holders don't receive a tax bill for the whole amount when the bond reaches maturity.


   Real-World Example of an OID  

As an example, in 2019, KushCo Holdings Inc. (KSHB) sold or floated a senior unsecured note for over $21.3 million. This 18-month note was issued as an original issue discount as stated by the company in its press release: "The Note is being issued at an original issue discount and will not bear additional interest."



The issue was placed with a private placement firm and was not registered under the U.S. Securities Act and as such, cannot be sold in the U.S. The company's stock currently trades over-the-counter.




How Is OID Calculated?
The OID is equal to the difference between the stated redemption price of a bond and the initial price when it was first issued. It can be calculated by subtracting the issuance price from the redemption price.




What Is Interest OID?
OID is a form of interest on a debt instrument such as a bond or note issued at less than its face amount. A debt instrument generally has a discount when it's issued for a price less than its stated redemption price at maturity. For tax purposes, this interest is considered income.




How Do I Report OID on My Tax Return?
Taxpayers should use Form 1099-OID, Original Issue Discount, to report any interest that is taxable OID. This type of interest is generally taxed as ordinary income. However, if a short-term discount obligation is redeemed at maturity, it will should be filed as Form 1099-INT. Brokers and middlemen will typically send the appropriate form to their clients for tax purposes.


   The Bottom Line  

An original issue discount (OID) may be offered by companies when they sell their face value bonds or other debt instruments at a discount. Often bonds are sold at maturity for a sum less than their stated value. The difference between the two prices is the OID, which is considered additional interest income for the buyer.



The OID amount must be reported by the buyer as part of taxable income as it accrues over the remaining life of the bond, regardless of any payments from the issuer during that time. In addition, the buyer may pay taxes on the actual interest income received.
What Is Origination?  

Origination is the multi-step process that every individual must go through to obtain a mortgage or home loan. The term also applies to other types of amortized personal loans. Origination is often a lengthy process that is overseen by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for compliance with Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. A loan origination fee, usually about 1% of the loan, is intended to compensate the lender for the work involved in the process.





Key Takeaways 

The origination process often involves a number of steps and is overseen by the FDIC.Pre-qualification is the first step of the origination process when a loan officer meets with a borrower and obtains all basic data and information relating to income and the property in question.All paperwork and documentation are then run through an automatic underwriting program for loan approval.


   How Originations Work  

Loans help consumers and businesses meet their financial goals and obligations. They can be used to make large purchases, pay off debt, make investments, or buy properties like homes. In order to be approved, they must apply for financing.



Borrowers must submit various types of financial information and documentation to the financial institution or other lender during the origination process. Some of the most common types of information and documents required include:



Tax returns
Payment history
Credit card information
Bank statements and balances



Lenders then use this information to determine the type of loan and the interest rate for which the borrower is eligible. Lenders also rely on other information, especially the borrower’s credit report, to determine loan eligibility.



It isn't uncommon for lenders in the U.S. to charge origination fees. These are upfront charges that borrowers are required to pay the lender as compensation for the application, underwriting, and approval process. Normally ranging between 0.5% to 1% of the loan value, the origination fee can be deducted from or added to the loan balance.






Origination includes pre-qualification of the borrower, as well as underwriting, and lenders typically charge an origination fee to cover the associated costs.


   Origination Steps and Requirements  

Pre-qualification is the first step of the process. The loan officer meets with the borrower and obtains all basic data and information relating to income and the property that the loan is intended to cover.



At this point, the lender determines the type of loan for which the individual qualifies, such as a personal loan. Fixed-rate loans have a continuous interest rate for the entire life of the loan, while adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) have an interest rate that fluctuates in relation to an index or a bond price, such as Treasury securities. Hybrid loans feature interest-rate aspects of both fixed and adjustable loans. They most often begin with a fixed rate and eventually convert to an ARM.



The borrower receives a list of information needed to complete the loan application during this stage. This extensive required documentation typically includes the purchase and sale contract, W-2 forms, profit-and-loss statements from those who are self-employed, and bank statements. It will also include mortgage statements if the loan is to refinance an existing mortgage.



The borrower fills out an application for the loan and submits all necessary documentation. The loan officer then completes the legally required paperwork to process the loan.






Borrowers only pay origination fees if the loan is approved.


   Origination to Approval  

Once the application is complete and the documentation submitted, the process is now out of the borrower’s hands. All paperwork submitted and signed until this point is filed and run through an automatic underwriting program to be approved.



Some files might be sent to an underwriter for manual approval. The loan officer then gets the appraisal, requests insurance information, schedules a closing, and sends the loan file to the processor. The processor may request additional information, if necessary, for reviewing the loan approval.



Some mortgage borrowers might be eligible for government loans, such as those provided by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). These loans are considered non-conventional and are structured in a way that makes it easier for eligible individuals to purchase homes. They often feature lower qualifying ratios and can require a smaller or no down payment, and the origination process can be somewhat easier as a result.


   Example of Origination  

Let's say a consumer wants to purchase their first home. They put in an offer on a property and the seller accepts. The two parties sign a contract and agree to a purchase price of $200,000. The buyer has a total of $50,000 saved up, which means they need to borrow $150,000 to cover the remaining balance.



The buyer goes to their bank, ABC Bank, to see if they prequalify. When they do, ABC Bank asks them to submit a formal application and furnish supporting documents, including their proof of income, tax returns, bank statements, and approval for a credit check. The application and documents are sent to the underwriting department of ABC Bank to assess whether the borrower is a suitable candidate for the mortgage.



After four weeks, the bank approves the loan, contacts the borrower, and arranges a time to sign the paperwork. The borrower is notified of the interest rate and loan terms and also agrees to pay the loan origination fee of 1% or $1,500. This can either be deducted from the loan balance (resulting in the disbursement of $148,500), pay it upfront, or have the seller pay it for them.




How Does a Loan Origination Work?
Loan origination is the process lenders use to assess and approve borrower applications for various forms of debt. These include loans and mortgages. Originations go from the initial application for credit through underwriting and the approval process. In order for the process to work, borrowers need to submit an application and additional documentation, such as tax returns and pay stubs. Lenders normally charge a fee, which is a small percentage of the balance, to compensate them for the work involved in reviewing and approving the application.




Do I Have to Pay an Origination Fee?
Most banks, financial institutions, and lenders charge an origination fee for any type of loan as a form of compensation for the loan process. This includes personal loans, debt consolidation loans, mortgages, home equity loans, and others. Fees generally range between 0.5% to 1% of the loan balance so if you're asking for a $100,000 loan, a 1% fee will be $1,000. Some lenders may be willing to negotiate the fee, which can be deducted from the loan disbursement or it can be paid upfront. Keep in mind that you only pay the fee if you're approved.




Do You Need to Go Through the Origination Process for a Credit Card?
The application and approval process for a credit card isn't as thorough as it is for a loan. In most cases, the origination of a credit card involves filling out an application and getting a credit check done, and you may be approved in a matter of a few days to a few weeks. Lenders don't charge an origination fee for credit cards but they may require a security deposit for anyone who is just establishing their credit or who has a bad credit rating.


   The Bottom Line  

It's a good idea to understand how the loan process works before you apply, whether it's for a personal loan or a mortgage. In the U.S., it's generally called origination. This process sees borrowers go through prequalification, application, underwriting, and approval before any loan funds are disbursed. Keep in mind that many lenders charge an origination fee, which is usually a small percentage of the loan value.
What Is an Origination Fee?  

A mortgage origination fee is an upfront fee charged by a lender to process a new loan application. The fee is compensation for executing the loan. Loan origination fees are quoted as a percentage of the total loan, and they are generally between 0.5% and 1% of a mortgage loan in the United States.



Sometimes referred to as “discount fees” or “points,” particularly when they equal 1% of the amount borrowed, origination fees pay for services such as processing, underwriting, and funding.





Key Takeaways

An origination fee is typically 0.5% to 1% of the loan amount and is charged by a lender as compensation for processing a loan application.Origination fees are sometimes negotiable, but reducing them or avoiding them usually means paying a higher interest rate over the life of the loan.These fees are typically set in advance of the loan execution, and they should not come as a surprise at the time of closing.


   Understanding Origination Fees  

An origination fee is similar to any commission-based payment. A lender would make $1,000 on a $100,000 loan—or $2,000 on a $200,000 loan—if the lender charged a 1% fee for originating the loan. The origination fee represents payment for the lender’s initial services. It sometimes represents a higher percentage of the loan amount on smaller loans, because a $50,000 loan can require the same amount of work for the lender as a $500,000 loan.



Total mortgage fees from lenders can be compared using a mortgage calculator. These fees are typically set in advance, and they suddenly increase at closing. They should be listed on the closing disclosure.


   History of Origination Fees  

Lenders often earned exorbitant origination fees and yield spread premiums (YSPs) during the late 1990s to mid-2000s for selling the borrower a higher interest rate. Borrowers with marginal credit or unverifiable income were particularly targeted by predatory subprime lenders. These lenders often charged origination fees as high as 4% or 5% of the loan amount, and they made thousands of additional dollars in YSPs.



The government passed new laws following the 2007-08 financial crisis. These laws limited how lenders could be compensated. Public pressure provided an incentive for lenders to rein in the practices that had made them rich during the housing boom. Origination fees shrunk to an average of 1% or less.






A borrower is often better off paying a higher origination fee in exchange for a lower interest rate because the interest savings over time will exceed the origination fee.


   How to Save on Origination Fees  

Mortgage origination fees can be negotiable, but a lender cannot and should not be expected to work for free. Obtaining a reduced origination fee usually involves conceding something to the lender. The most common way to lower the fee is to accept a higher interest rate in return.



Effectively, the lender earns its commission from the YSP instead of the origination fee. This is executed through something called "lender credits." They are calculated as negative points on a mortgage. As a general rule, this is a good deal for borrowers only if they plan to sell or refinance within a few years because on longer mortgages what you cumulatively pay in interest will generally outstrip what you would have paid in an origination fee. In the case of the latter, consider working with one of the best mortgage refinance companies to ensure you're getting a good deal.



You can negotiate to have the home seller pay your origination fees. This is most likely to happen in the event that either the seller needs to sell quickly or is having trouble selling the home. You can also negotiate with the lender to have the origination fee reduced or waived. This may not involve accepting a higher interest rate if, for example, you have shopped around and can present evidence of a better offer from a competing lender.



Also, if the mortgage is for a large amount and long term and you have excellent credit and a safe source of income, a lender may find your business attractive enough to go easy on fees.



Finally, always make sure to look at what exactly constitutes the origination fee. Some lenders bundle other fees, such as application and processing fees, into it. If that is the case, ask to have those bundled fees waived.


   How to Pay Loan Origination Fees  

Origination fees may represent just a small part of the closing costs and fees that must be paid when entering into a loan. Specific to a mortgage, there may be a variety of ways to pay this small cost. Note that the ways to cover the origination fees below are not exhausted or listed in any particular order.



Upfront Payment: Borrowers can choose to pay the loan origination fees upfront at the time of closing. This involves writing a check or making an electronic payment to the lender to cover the fees in full.
Rolling into the Mortgage: Another common method, borrowers may have the option to add the loan origination fees to the total loan amount. This increases the principal amount borrowed. By doing this, the borrower can spread out the cost over the life of the loan, but it will also increase the total loan amount and, subsequently, the monthly mortgage payments; an example of this is shown towards the end of the article.
Seller Contributions: In some cases, the seller of the property may agree to contribute a portion or all of the loan origination fees as part of the negotiation process. This is known as a seller's concession and can help reduce the borrower's out-of-pocket expenses at closing.
Lender Credits: Some lenders may offer lender credits as an incentive to borrowers. These credits can be applied toward covering the loan origination fees or other closing costs. However, lenders offering credits may often charge a slightly higher interest rate in exchange for these benefits. In addition, the credits could have gone towards other costs, so note that this means the origination fees weren't necessarily waived.
Builder or Developer Incentives: If the loan is for a new construction home or a property being developed by a builder, the builder or developer may offer incentives to cover a portion of the loan origination fees to attract buyers.
Closing Cost Assistance Programs: Depending on the borrower's financial situation and location, there may be closing cost assistance programs available. These programs may offer grants, low-interest loans, or other forms of financial aid to help cover loan origination fees and other closing costs.
Negotiation with the Lender: Borrowers can try to negotiate with the lender to reduce or waive some of the loan origination fees. This can involve shopping around for multiple lenders and using competing offers as leverage during negotiations. Note that in competitive environments, it may be difficult to have the entire origination fee waived.


   Loan Origination Fees vs. Points  

Discount points and loan origination fees are two charges associated with mortgages or home loans representing different aspects of the loan process. Lenders may come across both as part of their purchase and financing documents.



Points are upfront fees paid to the lender at the time of closing the mortgage expressed as a percentage of the total loan amount. There are two types of points: discount points and origination points. Discount points are optional fees borrowers can pay to reduce the interest rate on the loan. Origination points are fees charged by the lender for processing the loan application and creating the loan, essentially compensating for their services.



Loan origination fees are different. They are specific charges imposed by the lender for processing the loan application and facilitating the mortgage process. Loan origination fees may be a flat fee, usually expressed in dollars, rather than a percentage of the loan amount. These fees are meant to cover administrative costs, paperwork, and other services involved in evaluating the borrower's creditworthiness.


   Example of Origination Fee  

Larry is purchasing his first home and has secured a mortgage through a local bank. The loan amount is $250,000, and the lender charges a loan origination fee of 1.5% of the loan amount. This means the origination fee would be 1.5% of $250,000, which equals $3,750. Even though we discussed many more options above, let's assume Larry only two options in this example:



Option 1: Pay the Loan Origination Fee Upfront. In this scenario, Larry decides to pay the loan origination fee upfront at the time of closing. He writes a check for $3,750 to cover the fee. By paying the fee upfront, it does not impact the loan amount or his monthly mortgage payments.Option 2: Roll the Loan Origination Fee into the Mortgage. Alternatively, Larry can choose to roll the loan origination fee into the mortgage. Instead of paying $3,750 upfront, he requests to add this amount to the total loan amount. As a result, the new loan amount becomes $250,000 (original loan) + $3,750 (loan origination fee) = $253,750.



Assuming Larry opted for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with an interest rate of 4%, Larry's monthly payment for a $250,000 loan over 30 years is approximately $1,193. However, with the increased loan amount of $253,750, the new monthly payment would be approximately $1,208. By rolling the $3,750 loan origination fee into the mortgage, Larry's monthly payment increases by $15.



While this may not seem like a significant increase, it's essential to consider the long-term impact, as he will be paying this additional amount over the entire loan term (360 months).




Are Loan Origination Fees Negotiable?
Yes, loan origination fees are often negotiable. Borrowers can try to negotiate with lenders to reduce or waive some of the origination fees. Shopping around for multiple lenders and obtaining loan estimates can provide leverage during negotiations.




Can I Roll Loan Origination Fees into My Mortgage?
In some cases, borrowers can include loan origination fees in the mortgage amount. This means the fees will be spread out over the life of the loan, but it also increases the total loan amount and the overall interest paid over time. It's essential to discuss this option with the lender and understand the implications before proceeding.




Do Loan Origination Fees Vary Depending on the Type of Loan?
Yes, loan origination fees can vary depending on the type of loan and the lender's policies. Different loan programs such as conventional mortgages, FHA loans, VA loans, or jumbo loans may have different origination fee structures.




Are Loan Origination Fees Tax-Deductible?
In most cases, loan origination fees are not tax-deductible. However, some points paid as part of the loan origination process may be tax-deductible if they meet certain conditions. It's essential to consult with a tax advisor or tax professional to understand the tax implications specific to your situation.


   The Bottom Line  

Origination fees are upfront charges imposed by lenders when obtaining a loan, such as a mortgage. They cover the cost of processing the loan application, underwriting, and preparing necessary documents for closing. Origination fees can be expressed as a percentage of the loan amount or a flat fee, impacting the borrower's upfront costs. Alternatively, they may also be commonly rolled into the mortgage, increasing the total loan amount and monthly payments.
What Are Origination Points?  

Origination is a step-by-step process that every borrower must complete to obtain a mortgage or home loan. Meanwhile, origination points represent the fees that borrowers pay to lenders or loan officers to compensate for evaluating, processing, and approving mortgage loans. They represent a way to pay closing costs and these fees are negotiable among lenders.



Unlike other types of points (e.g., discount points), origination points are not tax-deductible.





Key Takeaways

There are two types of points in a mortgage: discount and origination.Origination points are fees paid for the evaluation, processing, and approval of mortgage loans.The more discount points paid, the lower the interest rate on the mortgage.One point is typically equal to 1% of the mortgage amount.Unlike some other mortgage fees, origination points are not tax-deductible.It can pay to research and ask questions because the number of origination points can vary among different lenders.


   Discount vs. Origination Points  

There are two types of points: discount points and origination points. Discount points represent interest that is prepaid on the loan and these are tax-deductible. The interest rate will be lower depending on the number of points a borrower pays, as the more points paid the lower the interest rate. Depending on how much a borrower wants to reduce their interest rate, they can pay from zero to four points.



While discount points represent prepaid interest, origination points are the costs that the borrower must pay the lender for extending the loan. The cost of the points is tax-deductible if it is used for the mortgage and not for closing costs. According to the IRS, if the fee is for items that appear on a settlement statement, such as inspection or notary fees, the cost is not tax-deductible.



Origination points vary from lender to lender, and a single origination point represents 1% of the mortgage loan. For example, if an individual is borrowing $150,000 and the bank is charging the individual 1.5 origination points, they will pay $2,250 (or 1.5% of $150,000) in origination points. The fees charged by banks to create the loan are typically 1 origination point, or 1% of the amount being borrowed.


   Example of Discount Points to Reduce Payment  

Whether a borrower should pay discount points depends on factors such as how much they have to put down as a deposit at closing and how long the borrower intends to stay in the home. If discount points are paid to lower the interest rate, that's an advantage if the borrower plans to stay in the house for a long time because the mortgage payments will be lower. However, in many cases, it is better to pay zero points and use the money for home furnishings or other investments instead.



Let's consider a hypothetical example using a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage from a hypothetical lender (Lender X) as an example of how paying discount points lowers the interest rate. It assumes that the rate for a 30-year FRM is 4.125%.










Example Mortgage Rates and Points


Rate
Points
APR




3.875%
1.524
4.075%


4.000%
0.461
4.111%


4.125%
0.000
4.197%






If an individual borrows $300,000 for a new home, the interest rate can be reduced to 3.875% by paying 1.524 discount points (i.e., $4,572) or to 4% by paying 0.461 points ($1,383) to the lender. Paying more points will reduce monthly mortgage payments and possibly increase the possibility of having the loan approved.



As for origination points, borrowers should research lenders and inquire about closing costs because they might be able to negotiate the amount paid. Obviously, a borrower wants to minimize the fees, closing costs, and origination points on the mortgage loan.




How Do Origination Points Differ from Discount Points?
Discount points are upfront payments that "buy down" the interest rate on a mortgage, lowering its monthly payments. Origination points are instead used to cover overhead costs for the loan. Origination and discount point fees are both paid at closing. Discount points may be tax-deductible, but origination points are not.




How Much Are Origination Points Usually?
Origination points on residential mortgages tend to be between 0.50% and 1.50%, with 1.00% being the industry average.




How Can I Avoid Paying Origination Points?
Not all lenders charge origination points, so be sure to shop around if this is a concern you have. You might be able to negotiate points lower with your lender in order to close the deal, or request the seller or one of the brokers involved in the deal to pay them on your behalf.
What Is an Orphan Block?  

In blockchain terms, orphan blocks are blocks mined simultaneously as another block but not accepted by the blockchain. Most of the time, this is because there are not enough blocks generated from that block for the network to recognize it as the longest fork. The Bitcoin blockchain discards orphan blocks; however, other blockchains may use them for different purposes.



Technically, orphan blocks are called stale blocks, but because most people refer to them as orphans or uncles, the name orphan (and uncle) block has stuck.





Key Takeaways

An orphan block is a block that has been solved within the blockchain network but was not accepted by the network.There can be two miners who solve valid blocks simultaneously. The network uses both blocks until one chain has more verified blocks. Then, the blocks in the shorter chain are orphaned.Orphan blocks are a regular occurrence in a distributed blockchain such as Bitcoin.


   Understanding Orphan Blocks  

A blockchain consists of a series of blocks, which act as data storage units to store details of the various transactions occurring on the blockchain network. During the standard mining process, miners attempt to generate new blocks by solving the hash—the hexadecimal number that stores the block's information.



The first miner who successfully opens a new block is entitled to the block reward and writes the first transaction on the new block. The newly opened block stores information about the previous blocks and new transactions and is mined to open another block.


  How Does a Block Become Orphaned?  

The series of blocks that create a blockchain are related in that they receive information from the blocks that preceded them. When a block is closed, its data is encoded and passed on to the next block. These two blocks are a parent and child block. If two blocks are opened from the same parent block simultaneously, there are two child blocks. Only one of them can be integrated into the chain.



The network nodes, which validate blocks, decide which block to use by allowing a small fork between the two child blocks. Then, the nodes determine what block they want to accept by reaching a validation consensus.



Each block will have subsequent blocks created, initiating a race to verify the most blocks. The fork with more verified blocks—through proof of work (PoW)—gets accepted into the blockchain. Any verified blocks within the shorter chain are discarded.



The discarded block is called an orphan block (in technical documents, it's called a stale block). Any blocks generated from the orphaned block go back to the memory pool to be validated and added to the new chain.


   How Are Orphan Blocks Different From Stale Blocks?  

As mentioned previously, many people call blocks rejected by the network orphan blocks. In a familial relationship, this is not the correct term. Because blocks are referred to by ancestral relationships for easy reference, an orphan block would technically be a block with unknown parent blocks.






The parent-child relationship in a blockchain stems from its database roots, where data from the parent are included in the child blocks so that values are linked.



A block without a parent block is one with an incomplete block hash. The block hash is an encrypted number and a snapshot of the complete blockchain at the moment the block was created. Parent block information would be included in this hash, so an orphan block would be a strange occurrence in a network that relies on validation and verification of all preceding blocks.



An actual orphan block without any parental block information is likely a block that has been tampered with. However, for simplicity, an unaccepted block is called an orphan block.




Is a Bitcoin a Block?
A block is an encrypted record of all transactions within that block. Bitcoin is the cryptocurrency rewarded for solving the hash—the encrypted hexadecimal number that stores the previous block's information.




What Happens to Orphaned Bitcoin?
Bitcoin is the cryptocurrency awarded for opening a new block in the blockchain. Blocks can become orphaned, but a bitcoin cannot. Orphaned (stale) blocks are discarded.




Is There a Reward for Mining Stale Blocks?
Generally, there is no reward for mining a stale block. However, some blockchains might allow for stale block rewards.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is the Orphan Drug Credit?  

The orphan drug credit is a federal tax credit that gives pharmaceutical companies incentives to develop medications and treatments for rare diseases that affect small populations. The credit is designed to help pharmaceutical companies lower their developmental costs.



The credit is for 25% of qualified clinical testing expenses. A rare disease is one that affects less than 200,000 people in the United States, or one that affects more than 200,000 people but for which there is no reasonable expectation that a treatment can be profitably developed.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Orphan Drug Act gives drug companies incentives to develop treatments for rare diseases, including a 25% tax credit on qualified clinical trials.Other incentives include a rebate on application fees and a seven-year window of drug exclusivity.The act was adopted in 1983 and has led to approvals for more than 780 products to treat more than 250 rare diseases.About half of the approved treatments are in the field of oncology (the treatment of cancer).﻿﻿


   Understanding the Orphan Drug Credit  

The orphan drug credit can be claimed whether the pharmaceutical company performs clinical tests itself or contracts out to a third party. In most cases, testing must take place in the U.S.﻿﻿ Orphan drugs are drugs developed to treat so-called "orphan diseases," which is a term to describe extremely rare medical conditions such as Gaucher's disease, Tourette's syndrome, Huntington's disease, and many other disorders.﻿﻿



Despite being rare, orphan diseases affect a large number of people. An estimated 30 million people in the U.S. suffer from 7,000 rare diseases, yet 95% of these diseases have no treatment or cure.﻿﻿



The orphan drug tax credit is designed to encourage the development of treatments for these rare diseases. Without these tax credits, pharmaceutical companies would be forced to charge high prices that affected patients could never afford.


   History of the Orphan Drug Credit  

In 1982, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recognized the lack of incentive for pharmaceutical companies to develop cures for rare diseases. From this realization, the Orphan Drug Act of 1983 was born.﻿﻿



Before the Orphan Drug Act was passed, pharmaceutical companies and medical researchers were unable and unwilling to invest in treatments for extremely rare diseases. There simply weren't enough patients for each orphan disease for pharmaceutical companies to recover their expenses, let alone make a profit. Clinical trials cost thousands of dollars per patient even when researchers can find enough patients to run trials.



Between 1983 and 2018, the orphan drug tax credit provided a 50% credit for qualified clinical testing costs for drugs tested under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.﻿﻿ A 2017 overhaul of the tax code under the Donald Trump administration reduced the credit from 50% to 25% beginning in 2018.﻿﻿ The National Organization for Rare Disorders and many other advocacy groups campaigned against the move.﻿﻿
What Is an Oscillator?  

An oscillator is a technical analysis tool that constructs high and low bands between two extreme values and then builds a trend indicator that fluctuates within these bounds. Traders use the trend indicator to discover short-term overbought or oversold conditions. When the value of the oscillator approaches the upper extreme value, technical analysts interpret that information to mean that the asset is overbought, and as it approaches the lower extreme, technicians consider the asset to be oversold.





Key Takeaways

Oscillators are momentum indicators used in technical analysis, whose fluctuations are bounded by some upper and lower band.When oscillator values approach these bands, they provide overbought or oversold signals to traders.Oscillators are often combined with moving average indicators to signal trend breakouts or reversals.


   How Oscillators Work  

Oscillators are typically used in conjunction with other technical analysis indicators to make trading decisions. Analysts find oscillators most advantageous when they cannot find a clear trend in a company's stock price easily, for example when a stock trades horizontally or sideways. The most common oscillators are the:



Stochastic Oscillator
Relative Strength (RSI)
Rate of Change (ROC)
Money Flow (MFI)



In technical analysis, investors find oscillators to be one of the most important technical tools to understand, but there are also other technical tools that analysts find helpful in enhancing their trading, such as chart reading skills and technical indicators.



If an investor uses an oscillator, they first pick two values; then, placing the tool between the two, the oscillator oscillates, creating a trend indicator. Investors then use the trend indicator to read current market conditions for that particular asset. When the investor sees that the oscillator moves toward a higher value, the investor reads the asset as overbought. In the opposite scenario, when the oscillator trends towards the lower value, the investors consider the asset oversold.


   Mechanics of an Oscillator  

In technical analysis, an investor measures oscillators on a percentage scale from 0 to 100, where the closing price is relative to the total price range for a specified number of bars in a given bar chart. In order to achieve this, one deploys various techniques of manipulating and smoothing out multiple moving averages. When the market trades in a specific range, the oscillator follows the price fluctuations and indicates an overbought condition when it exceeds 70 to 80% of the specified total price range, signifying a selling opportunity. An oversold condition exists when the oscillator falls below 30 to 20%, which signifies a buying opportunity.



The signals remain valid as long as the price of the underlying security remains in the established range. However, when a price breakout occurs, the signals may be misleading. Analysts consider a price breakout either the resetting of the range by which the current sideways market is bound or the beginning of a new trend. During the price breakout, the oscillator may remain in the overbought or oversold range for an extended period of time.



Technical analysts consider oscillators better suited for sideways markets and consider them more effective when used in conjunction with a technical indicator that identifies the market as being in a trend or range-bound. For example, a moving average crossover indicator can be used to determine if a market is, or is not, in a trend. Once the analysts determine that the market is not in a trend, the signals of an oscillator become much more useful and effective.
What Is the Oscillator of a Moving Average (OsMA)?  

OsMA is an abbreviation for the term oscillator of a moving average (MA). The OsMA is a technical indicator that shows the difference between an oscillator and its moving average over a given period of time.



The MACD is the most common oscillator used in the OsMA indicator, although any oscillator can be used. The MACD has a built-in moving average, which is the signal line. The signal line is an average of the MACD line. The OsMA is the difference or space between these two lines, usually drawn as a histogram. It can provide trend confirmation as well as possible trade signals.





Key Takeaways

The OsMA is a combination of an oscillator and a moving average of that oscillator. It measures the distance between these two values.Any oscillator and any moving average (MA) of it can be used to create an OsMA.MAs (of an oscillator) move slower than the oscillator. Therefore, an increasing OsMA is bullish as prices are rising and vice-versa.When the OsMA goes from negative to positive that may indicate an uptrend is starting.; When the OsMA goes from positive to negative that may indicate a downtrend is starting.Generally, when the OsMA is positive it helps confirm a price uptrend, and when negative helps confirm a downtrend in price.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2021


   Formula for the Oscillator of a Moving Average (OsMA)  

﻿




OsMA = Oscillator Value


−


Moving Average Value



\text{OsMA = Oscillator Value} - \text{Moving Average Value}


OsMA = Oscillator Value−Moving Average Value﻿


  How to Calculate the Oscillator of a Moving Average  

Select an oscillator and the time frame it will be based on.
Select a moving average type and the number of periods in the MA.
Calculate the oscillator value and then calculate the MA of the oscillator. Since moving averages are an average of multiple values, calculate as many oscillator values as needed before calculating the MA. For example, if you select a nine-period simple moving average (SMA) of the oscillator, then you will need at least nine oscillator values before the SMA can be calculated.
Take the difference between the oscillator and the MA to get the OsMA reading. This can be a positive or negative number.
Repeat steps and three and four as each time period ends.


   What Does the Oscillator of a Moving Average (OsMA) Tell You?  

The OsMA is a useful indicator of trends and trend strength. Values above zero, especially a number of periods above zero, help confirm rising prices. Values below zero, especially a number of periods in a row below zero, help confirm falling prices.



Crossovers of the zero line can also be important. A zero-line crossover occurs when the oscillator crosses above or below its MA. If the oscillator value drops below the MA value then the OsMA will record a negative value and shows the price is dropping. If the oscillator rises above the MA the OsMA will be positive and signals the price is rising.



Crossovers may provide the occasional good trade that catches a major price move, but crossovers can also produce loads of bad trades when the price is choppy and the OsMA flutters back and forth between positive and negative values. If using crossovers, it is better to be selective, such as only taking crossovers that align with a longer-term uptrend based on price action or another indicator. As the price is rising, consider buying when the OsMA falls below the zero line and then moves back above it. During a downtrend, consider short trades when the OsMA rises above the zero line and then drops below it. This won't totally eliminate the poor signals but it will get rid of some and will aid in trading in the direction of the trend.



High values (relative to prior readings) on the OsMA indicate a very strong uptrend since the faster moving oscillator line is moving further and further away from the slower moving MA. Low values mean the price is falling rapidly since the faster-moving oscillator is dropping quickly relative to the slower-moving MA.



Such high and low readings are subjective though, as a reading that is too high or low could indicate that the market is near an extreme and is due for at least a short-term correction in the other direction. Looking at the past can reveal extreme on the OsMA. Mark prior high and low points on the OsMA where the price reversed. These levels may be relevant in the future again, although not always.






The MACD is a commonly used oscillator that has a built-in moving average. Therefore, the MACD histogram is an OsMA which shows the difference between the MACD line and the signal line.


   The Difference Between the Oscillator of a Moving Average (OsMA) and the Stochastic Oscillator  

The stochastic oscillator indicator is a type of oscillator. Therefore, it could be used to calculate an OsMA. Like the MACD, the stochastic usually has a moving average applied to it. In this case, it is called %D, and it's a three-period SMA of the stochastic (%K). To calculate the OsMA of the stochastic oscillator, take the difference between %K and %D.


   The Limitations of Using an Oscillator of a Moving Average (OsMA)  

The OsMA is a lagging indicator. That means that it will sometimes provide information that is outdated. For example, a positive crossover above zero may occur but the price has already moved up substantially and thus may no longer be a good candidate. Similarly, the OsMA may show a strong price uptrend with positive values, but the price could still sharply fall. The indicator may be slow to decline or cross below zero, even though the price has fallen substantially already.



False crossovers are also a common problem, especially when the price is choppily moving. The OsMA will move quickly above and below zero, providing little insight beyond confirming that price action is choppy and trendless.
What Is the Oslo Stock Exchange (OSL)?  

The term Oslo Stock Exchange (OSL) refers to Norway's premier stock exchange. Located in the capital city of Oslo, the exchange is the region's major regulated market for securities trading, including equities, bonds, and exchange-traded products (ETPs). The exchange's market capitalization as of May 13, 2022, was roughly $295.55 billion. Founded in 1819, the exchange was acquired by Euronext in 2019. The exchange is part of the NOREX alliance, making it attractive to foreign investment.





Key Takeaways

The Oslo Stock Exchange is the major stock market in Norway and the country's only regulated securities exchange.The exchange was established in 1819 and is also known as Oslo Børs.The OSL was privatized in 2001 but was acquired by Euronext in 2019.Although the majority of companies are Norwegian, listing by foreign companies is encouraged by the exchange.Trading is fully electronic on the Oslo Stock Exchange.


   Understanding the Oslo Stock Exchange (OSL)  

The Oslo Stock Exchange is the major stock market in Norway. It is commonly referred to as Oslo Børs and is Norway’s only regulated securities exchange. As noted above, the OSL is the country's premier exchange and is located in the capital city of Oslo.



A number of different financial products are traded on the exchange, including equities, bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and other ETPs, derivatives, and certain funds. As of May 12, 2022, 348 companies listed equity shares on the exchange. These companies represent a number of different sectors, notably energy, seafood, and shipping. While a majority of the securities listed on the OSL are Norwegian public limited companies, foreign companies also participate in the exchange.



Investors have the opportunity to invest in the Oslo OBX Index through the Oslo Stock Exchange. It is made up of the 25 most liquid securities on the exchange. The OBX Index is revised twice each year, based on the market data on the first Monday after the third Friday each June and December.



The Oslo Stock Exchange is fully electronic. The automated trading system was established in 1999. Trading takes place Monday to Friday between 9:00 a.m. and 4:20 p.m. local time. There are seven national holidays during which the exchange is closed along with one partial trading day each year.






Trading on the Oslo Stock Exchange takes place in Norwegian Krones.


   History of the Oslo Stock Exchange (OSL)  

The OSL was established in 1819 as the Christiana Børs. It was designed to give merchants a place where they could meet and trade news and commercial goods, such as lumber. It wasn't until 1881 that it became an official stock exchange and began to list and trade securities. The exchange changed its name to Oslo Børs in the early 1900s.



As brokerage firms increased in popularity in Norway in the late 1990s, traders lost the need to meet in person to facilitate their transactions. As a result, the OSL went private, becoming a limited liability company (LLC) in 2001. The Oslo Børs VPS Holding ASA, which was established as a result of the merger of the Oslo Børs and VPS Holding, officially assumed ownership of the exchange in 2007.



As part of an effort for Nordic exchanges to attract more international investment, the Oslo Stock Exchange joined the NOREX alliance in 2000. NOREX also includes the stock exchanges of Stockholm, Copenhagen, and Iceland, and provides a common trading platform and streamlined regulations for participants.



The Nasdaq and Euronext put in competing offers to assume control of the Oslo Stock Exchange in a bid to expand their global footprint. Although the exchange's major shareholders supported the bid by Nasdaq, the offer was withdrawn in May 2019 after the country's finance ministry approved a competing bid by Euronext. The acquisition was completed in June 2019.






Companies must meet certain requirements and must disclose data regarding ownership and history, shares, and market value in order to list on the Oslo Stock Exchange.


   Associated Markets  

The Oslo Børs VPS Holding ASA facilitated trading on four other marketplaces in addition to the exchange. These markets are called the Oslo Axess, Merkur Market, Nordic ABM, and Oslo Connect.



Oslo Axess was established in 2007 as a regulated, licensed market under the Oslo Exchange, intended to promote the growth of small companies that do not yet meet the requirements for listing on the Oslo Stock Exchange.



Merkur Market was launched in 2016 as a multilateral trading facility (MTF) for small and medium enterprises, which provides the opportunity for privately-held limited companies and equivalent foreign counterparts to be traded in Oslo. Boasting one of the fastest admission processes in Europe, Merkur Market indicates that a qualified applicant can be trading in their marketplace in as little as two weeks.



In 2005, the OSL established Nordic ABM as an alternative bond market. While Nordic ABM is not a regulated market or multilateral trading facility, Oslo Stock Exchange sets the rules, fees, and registration process for bonds that request to be registered on the Nordic ABM.



Oslo Connect is an over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace that is regulated as a multilateral trading facility. Participants in Oslo Connect must sign an agreement with Oslo Børs and a cooperating clearinghouse.




What Is the Oslo Stock Exchange Called?
The Oslo Stock Exchange can be called the Oslo Stock Exchange, Euronext Oslo, or Oslo Børs.




Is Oslo Stock Exchange an EU Regulated Market?
Yes, since the Oslo Stock Exchange is owned by Euronext and operates in the EU market, the exchange is EU regulated. However, unlike Euronext's other exchanges, the Oslo exchange is not a small or mid-sized company (SME) Growth Market. SMEs are designed to give advantages to companies that otherwise do not meet the criteria for admission into Euronext's regulated markets.




How Many Companies Are on the Oslo Stock Exchange?
As of May 12, 2022, there are 348 companies listed on the exchange. There are three Norwegian companies listed on exchanges in the United States, which are listed below.




How Do I Buy Norwegian Stocks?
The best way to buy Norwegian stocks is if you are able to trade on the Oslo Stock Exchange. These shares will be the most liquid and your orders will fill the fastest. However, you can still trade Norwegian stocks on markets in the United States by purchasing something called an American Depositary Receipt (ADR). An ADR is a certificate that you purchase on a U.S. exchange that represents a specified number of shares of a foreign company's stock. As of May 12, 2022, there are only three Norwegian companies with ADRs listed on U.S. exchanges: Equinor (EQNR), Idex Biometrics (IDBA), and Opera (OPRA).




What Is Euronext Oslo?
Euronext Oslo is another name for the Oslo Stock Exchange. Euronext and NASDAQ entered into bidding for the Oslo Stock Exchange but Euronext was able to secure it in 2019. Euronext is headquartered in Amsterdam and is Europe's largest stock exchange group.


   The Bottom Line  

Although Norway is not an EU member nation, the company that owns the Oslo Stock Exchange, Euronext, is headquartered in Amsterdam. The Oslo Stock Exchange is a regulated EU market and is Norway's only regulated exchange comprising around 340 companies and a number of other financial instruments.
What Is OTC Markets Group Inc.?  

The OTC Markets Group is the owner and operator of the most substantial U.S. inter-dealer electronic quotation and trading system for over-the-counter (OTC) securities. It provides marketplaces for trading more than 11,500 OTC securities.





Key Takeaways

OTC Markets Group Inc. is the largest U.S. marketplace for OTC securities with over 11,500 securities listed as of 2022.OTC Markets Group Inc. provides services in three core areas, namely trading services, market data, and corporate services.OTC securities are listed in three tiers: OTCQX, which has the most stringent listing requirements, the OTCQB, which is the venture market, and the Pink Open Market, which includes companies in financial distress or bankruptcy.Of the three tiers, the Pink Open Market is the largest in terms of the number of companies and trade volume.The handling of most OTC securities trading in the U.S. is on the company’s OTC Link platform, an alternative trading system registered with the SEC.


   Understanding OTC Markets Group Inc.  

OTC Markets Group Inc. provides services in three core areas that are essential for better-informed and more efficient financial markets. The fields are trading services, market data, and corporate services.



Through the trading services division, OTC Markets Group connects broker-dealers together which provides the liquidity and infrastructure for executing trades on the OTC market. The market data division provides data and quote services for more than 11,500 OTC securities. The corporate services division helps companies go public and gain greater visibility through listing in one of OTC Markets Group's three OTC tiers.



The company was preceded by the National Quotation Bureau, which was founded in 1904. Prior to being called the OTC Markets Group Inc., the National Quotation Bureau renamed itself Pink Sheets LLC in 2000 and then Pink OTC Markets Inc. in 2008. The change to the OTC Markets Group name came in 2011.



The handling of most OTC securities trading in the U.S. is on the company’s OTC Link platform, an alternative trading system registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a broker-dealer. OTC Markets Group has its headquarters in New York City and is publicly traded on the OTCQX marketplace under the symbol OTCM.



As of March 7, 2022, the dollar volume is $219 million and the share volume is $1.4 billion. These stats are for all three tiers combined. The OTC Pink is the largest tier in terms of the number of companies listed within it.


   OTC Markets Group Inc. Tier Structure  

The most visible aspect of the OTC Markets Group's stewardship is the breakdown of the OTC market into three tiers, based on the quality and quantity of the listed companies’ information and disclosures. This tiered structure provides different levels of transparency, so investors know what type of information is available for each company they wish to trade.


  OTCQX  

OTCQX is the top tier of the three marketplaces for the OTC trading of stocks. Stocks that trade on this forum must meet more stringent qualification criteria compared to the other levels. Also called the OTCQX Best Market, it includes a large number of blue-chip stocks from Europe, Canada, Brazil, and Russia. These large foreign stocks are frequently global household names. Penny stocks, shell companies, and companies in bankruptcy cannot qualify for a listing on the OTCQX.


  OTCQB  

The middle tier is called OTCQB, also known as the Venture Market, which consists of early-stage and developing U.S. and international companies that are not yet able to qualify for the OTCQX. The company must be current in its reporting, undergo an annual verification, management certification, meet a $0.01 bid test, and must not be in bankruptcy to meet eligibility standards.






The OTC Markets Group has created many financial indexes, such as the OTCQX Banks, OTCQX Dividend, and OTCQX Canada.



Companies listed here report to a U.S. regulator such as the SEC or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The OTCQB replaced the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)-operated OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB) as the main market for trading OTC securities that report to a U.S. regulator. Because it has no minimum financial standards, the OTCQB includes shell companies, penny stocks, and small foreign issuers.


  OTC Pink  

OTC Pink, or Pink Sheets, is the lowest level and most speculative tier of the three marketplaces for the trading of over-the-counter stocks. This marketplace offers trading in a wide range of equities and includes companies in default​​​​​​​ or financial distress.



Because it has fewer disclosure requirements, the categorization of OTC Pink companies is from information provided by the company. Note that as of Sept. 28, 2021, OTC Pink (as well as all other OTC Markets Group lines) will require companies on the platform to provide up-to-date disclosures, pursuant to SEC Rule 15c2-11.




What Does OTCM Stand for?
"OTCM" Stands for over-the-counter market, which is a market where parties transact the buying and selling of securities with one another without a centralized exchange facilitating the process. "OTCM" can also refer to OTC Markets Group, which owns and operates a trading system to facilitate OTC trading.




Who Runs OTCM?
OTCM is run by itself. It is a publicly-traded company that is headquartered in New York. The President and CEO is Cromwell Coulson.




What Is the Difference Between Stock Exchanges and the OTC Market?
The OTC market facilitates the trading of financial securities between two parties without the oversight of an exchange. A stock exchange is an exchange that oversees the buying and selling of stocks. Stock exchanges allow for more liquidity, oversight, and transparency than OTC markets.




Is the OTC Market Safe to Trade?
OTC markets are safe to trade but there are some risks with the process, such as less information available about the securities and less liquidity. Picking companies in the tiers that have stronger financial standards can help reduce the risks in OTC trading.




What Is the Process for Listing a Public Company in the OTC Market?
To be able to trade in the OTC market, a company must be sponsored by a market maker. The market maker will sponsor the issue as market makers are the only ones allowed to apply to have a quote listed.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What are OTC Options?  

OTC options are exotic options that trade in the over-the-counter market rather than on a formal exchange like exchange traded option contracts.





Key Takeaways

OTC options are exotic options that trade in the over-the-counter market rather than on a formal exchange like exchange traded option contracts.OTC options are the result of a private transaction between the buyer and the seller.OTC option strike prices and expiration dates are not standardized, which allows participants to define their own terms, and there is no secondary market.


   Understanding OTC Options  

Investors turn to OTC options when the listed options do not quite meet their needs. The flexibility of these options is attractive to many investors. There is no standardization of strike prices and expiration dates, so participants essentially define their own terms and there is no secondary market. As with other OTC markets, these options transact directly between buyer and seller. However, brokers and market makers participating in OTC option markets are usually regulated by some government agency, like FINRA in the U.S.﻿﻿﻿﻿



With OTC options, both hedgers and speculators avoid the restrictions placed on listed options by their respective exchanges. This flexibility allows participants to achieve their desired position more precisely and cost-effectively.﻿﻿



Aside from the trading venue, OTC options differ from listed options because they are the result of a private transaction between the buyer and the seller. On an exchange, options must clear through the clearing house. This clearing house step essentially places the exchange as the middleman. The market also sets specific terms for strike prices, such as every five points, and expiration dates, such as on a particular day of each month.﻿﻿



Because buyers and seller deal directly with each other for OTC options, they can set the combination of strike and expiration to meet their individual needs. While not typical, terms may include almost any condition, including some from outside the realm of regular trading and markets. There are no disclosure requirements, which represents a risk that counterparties will not fulfill their obligations under the options contract. Also, these trades do not enjoy the same protection given by an exchange or clearing house.﻿﻿



Finally, since there is no secondary market, the only way to close an OTC options position is to create an offsetting transaction. An offsetting transaction will effectively nullify the effects of the original trade. This is in stark contrast to an exchange-listed option where the holder of that option merely has to go back to the exchange to sell their position.


   OTC Option Default Risk  

OTC defaults can quickly propagate around the marketplace. While risks of OTC options did not originate during the financial crisis of 2008, the failure of investment bank Lehman Brothers provides an excellent example of the difficulty of assessing actual risk with OTC options and other derivatives. Lehman was a counterparty to many OTC transactions. When the bank failed, the counterparties to its transactions were left exposed to market conditions without hedges and could not, in turn, meet their obligations to their other counterparties. Therefore, a chain reaction took place, impacting counterparties further away from the Lehman OTC trade. Many of the affected secondary and tertiary counterparties had no direct dealings with the bank, yet the cascading effect from the original event hurt them as well. This is one of the major reasons that led to the severity of the crisis, which ended up causing widespread damage to the global economy.﻿﻿
What Is OTC Pink?  

The OTC Pink, now branded as the Pink Open Market, is the lowest and most speculative tier of the three marketplaces for the trading of over-the-counter (OTC) stocks. All three tiers are provided and operated by the OTC Markets Group. This marketplace offers to trade in a wide range of equities through any broker and includes companies in default or financial distress.



Since it has no disclosure requirements, the categorization of OTC Pink companies is from information provided by the company. OTC Markets Group now markets OTC Pink as the Pink Open Market, but the historical name still persists.





Key Takeaways

OTC Pink, also known as the "pink sheets," is the most speculative of OTC Markets Group's platforms.Companies on OTC Pink are not held to particular disclosure requirements or high financial standards seen with the stocks listed on major exchanges.Due to the wide variety of companies listed on OTC Pink, including dark companies, delinquent companies, and worse, only sophisticated investors with a high risk tolerance should consider it.The terms "Pink Sheets" or "OTC Pink" are considered outdated in the context of today's financial markets.


  Understanding OTC Pink  

The over-the-counter (OTC) market is a decentralized market where securities, not listed on major exchanges, are traded directly by a network of dealers. Instead of providing an order matchmaking service like the NYSE, these dealers carry inventories of securities to facilitate any buy or sell orders. Because information was initially printed on pink paper, the OTC Pink is also referred to as the Pink Sheets.



The OTC Pink, as well as its companion tiers, OTCQX and OTCQB, is run by OTC Link. The link is an electronic inter-dealer quotation and trading system developed by OTC Markets Group. Registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer, OTC Link is also an alternative trading system (ATS).



OTC Link allows broker-dealers not only to post and disseminate their quotes but also to negotiate trades through the system’s electronic messaging capability. This feature enabled it to replace the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), which was a quotation-only system.



On November 8, 2021, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) chose to discontinue the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB), a quotation system it operates between dealers, and remove all OTCBB-associated rules from its rulebook.


   Regulation of the OTC Pink Marketplace  

Because of the variable, self-reporting nature by OTC Pink companies, they are classified based on the quality and quantity of information they provide to investors. Classification is as follows.



Current Information companies are those that follow the International Reporting Standard or Alternative Reporting Standard. These companies make filings publicly available through the OTC Disclosure & News Service.
Limited Information companies include troubled firms in financial distress, bankruptcy, or those with accounting issues. This category also includes companies that are unwilling to meet the OTC Pink Basic Disclosure Guidelines.
No Information companies are those businesses that do not provide any disclosure at all.



All broker-dealers that trade on the OTCQX, OTCQB, and OTC Pink securities have to be Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) members. Further, they must register with the SEC and are subject to state securities regulations. In this way, as with exchange-traded securities, investors trading OTC securities are protected from an unethical broker-dealer’s illegal practices by the same SEC and FINRA rules such as Best Execution, Limit Order Protection, Firm Quotes, and Short Position Disclosure.


   Who Should Invest Through OTC Pink?  

OTC Pink provides for transparent trading and best execution, although there are no financial standards or disclosure requirements. The marketplace trades a wide range of domestic and foreign companies including penny stocks, shell companies, distressed companies, and dark companies that cannot or will not provide company information to investors.



Because of the lack of reporting requirements, only professional and sophisticated investors with a high risk-tolerance should trade here. Investors should perform all the proper due diligence by researching the companies they are considering and reviewing all business activities.


   Terminology Updates  

It should be noted that the terms "Pink Sheets" or "OTC Pink" are considered outdated in the context of today's financial markets. The terminology that was once known as Pink Sheets has evolved into the OTC Markets Group, which operates regulated marketplaces for trading over-the-counter stocks. These include the OTCQX, OTCQB, and Pink markets, each with varying levels of financial standards and regulatory oversight. Thus, referring to these markets collectively as "Pink Sheets" or "OTC Pink" is no longer accurate. However, the terms PINK or Pink market are still in everyday language, as seen in the 2022 Market Data Annual Review.



The Pink market operates as an open marketplace with no obligatory financial standards or disclosure requirements. Companies in this tier are not mandated to register their stock with the SEC. Depending on the quantity and promptness of information they share with investors, these companies can be further divided into categories, such as current, limited, or no public disclosure.



The regulatory structure of the Pink market has changed over the past couple of years. For instance, components such as "dark securities" have been entirely shifted out of the market.




What types of companies generally trade on Pink Markets?
Companies that trade on Pink Markets vary widely. They can include smaller or newer companies that don't meet the listing requirements for major exchanges, foreign entities that wish to trade in the U.S., or companies preferring less regulatory scrutiny.




What are the investment risks associated with Pink Markets?
Investing in Pink Markets carries substantial risk due to the lack of stringent regulatory oversight. Risks include limited financial information, high volatility, low liquidity, and potential for fraud or manipulation.




Have there been any recent developments in the Pink Markets?
Yes, the regulatory structure of Pink Markets has been evolving. For instance, certain types of securities, such as "dark securities," have been removed from the market entirely to increase transparency and reduce risk.




Are Pink Markets the same as major stock exchanges?
No, Pink Markets are not the same as major stock exchanges like the NYSE or NASDAQ. They operate over-the-counter, meaning trades occur directly between parties rather than through a centralized exchange, and they typically involve stocks that do not meet the listing requirements of major exchanges.


   The Bottom Line  

The terminology of former OTC Pink or Pink Sheets has changed, and so have certain regulatory developments. Pink Markets, or Pink Open Market, is an over-the-counter trading platform for stocks not listed on major exchanges, often involving smaller companies, foreign entities, or those seeking less regulation. While it provides opportunities for speculators and investors looking beyond traditional markets, it carries significant risks, including limited financial information, high volatility, and potential for fraudulent activity. Recent regulatory changes aim to increase transparency and reduce risk in this speculative market.
What Is the OTCQB?  

The OTCQB, also called "The Venture Market," is the middle tier of the over-the-counter (OTC) market for U.S. stocks. It was created in 2010 and consists mainly of early-stage and developing U.S. and international companies that are not yet able to qualify for the OTCQX but are not as speculative as the lowest-tier Pink Sheets.



The OTCQB replaced the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)-operated OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB) as the main market for trading OTC securities that report to a U.S. regulator. As it has no minimum financial standards, the OTCQB often includes shell companies, penny stocks, and small foreign issuers.





Key Takeaways

The OTCQB is the mid-tier OTC equity market, which lists primarily early-stage and developing companies in the U.S. and international markets.OTCQB companies must meet certain minimum reporting standards, pass a bid test, and undergo annual verification.The other OTC tiers are the highest quality OTCQX, and the most speculative Pink Sheets.


   Understanding the OTCQB  

The over-the-counter or OTC market is a decentralized market where securities not listed on major exchanges are traded directly by a network of dealers. Instead of providing an order matchmaking service like the NYSE, these dealers carry inventories of securities in order to facilitate any buy and sell orders.



The OTCQB marketplace is run through OTC Link, an inter-dealer quotation and trading system developed by OTC Markets Group. OTC Link is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a broker-dealer and also as an alternative trading system (ATS).



OTC Link enables broker-dealers to not only post and disseminate their quotes, but also negotiate trades through the system’s electronic messaging capability. This feature enabled it to effectively replace FINRA’s OTCBB, which was a quotation-only system.



All broker-dealers that trade OTCQB, OTCQX, and OTC Pink securities have to be FINRA members and registered with the SEC; they are also subject to state securities regulations. As with exchange-traded securities, investors trading OTC securities are protected from an unethical broker-dealer’s illegal practices by the same SEC/FINRA rules such as best execution, limit order protection, firm quotes, and short position disclosure.


   Rules of the OTCQB  

To be eligible, companies must be current in their reporting, undergo annual verification and certification, meet a $0.01 bid test, not be in bankruptcy, have at least 50 beneficial shareholders, each owning at least 100 shares, and a public float in excess of 10% of the total shares outstanding—some flexibility is offered with regard to the latter requirement.



Companies listed here report to a U.S. regulator such as the SEC or FDIC and must follow standards to improve transparency—those who are most likely to be associated with stock promoters and other shady operators will be excluded. The fee for listing on OTCQB markets is $14,000 per annum, with a one-time application fee of $5,000.


   Special Considerations  

Stocks trading in the OTCQB have many of the same protections as more established, larger stocks. However, they are still mainly considered to be speculative penny stocks.



There is also no guarantee that stocks trading in the OTC market are of higher quality than penny stocks trading on different OTC tiers or even different OTC marketplaces. As such, traders would be well served to implement strong due diligence before committing their capital.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the OTCQX?  

The OTCQX is the top tier of the three marketplaces for the over-the-counter (OTC) trading of stocks. The OTCQX is provided and operated by the OTC Markets Group. Stocks that trade on this forum must meet more stringent qualification criteria compared to the other tiers, which are the OTCQB/OTCBB and the Pink Sheets.





Key Takeaway

The OTCQX is the highest quality tier of OTC markets and offers trading in companies that are not listed on traditional exchanges.Companies listed on the OTCQX markets have to follow certain rules and criteria and are subject to SEC regulation. For example, they have to adhere to governance transparency and must not be penny stocks.The two lower-tier venues for OTC trading in the U.S. are the OTCQB (formerly the OTCBB) and the Pink Sheets.


   Understanding OTCQX  

The over-the-counter (OTC) market is a decentralized market where securities, not listed on major exchanges, are traded directly by a network of dealers. Instead of providing an order matchmaking service as with the NYSE, these dealers carry inventories of securities to facilitate any buy or sell orders. Penny stocks, shell companies, and companies in bankruptcy cannot qualify for a listing on the OTCQX.



The OTCQX roster, also called the OTCQX Best Market, includes a large number of blue-chip stocks from Europe, Canada, Brazil, and Russia. These large foreign stocks are frequently global household names.


   Regulation of OTCQX  

Companies trading on the OTCQX must follow standards to improve transparency. The OTCQX excludes companies that are most likely to be associated with stock promoters and other shady operations. The OTCQX sets standards that a company must meet for inclusion. A company must meet high financial standards, be current in its disclosure, and have sponsorship from a professional third-party advisor. Listed companies report to a U.S. regulator such as the Securities and Exchange Committee (SEC) or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).



The OTCQX marketplace is run by OTC Link, an electronic inter-dealer quotation and trading system developed by OTC Markets Group. OTC Link is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer and also as an alternative trading system (ATS). OTC Link enables broker-dealers to not only post and disseminate their quotes, but to also negotiate trades through the system’s electronic messaging capability. This feature allows it to replace the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), which was a quotation-only system.



The OTCQX Marketplace provides some advantages to investors. It separates out the superior companies from the numerous OTC companies that are financially challenged, those involved in questionable activities, or both. It enables investors to participate in the growth of foreign blue chips. Investors may view real-time Level 2 quotes with detailed market data and market depth.



All broker-dealers that trade OTCQX, OTCQB, and OTC Pink securities have to be Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) members. Further, they must register with the SEC and are subject to state securities regulations.



In this way, as with exchange-traded securities, investors trading OTC securities are protected from an unethical broker-dealer’s illegal practices by the same SEC and FINRA rules such as Best Execution, Limit Order Protection, Firm Quotes, and Short Position Disclosure.


   OTCQX Tiers  

The reason large and prestigious companies list on the OTCQX rather than on a major exchange, such as the NYSE, is mainly to avoid the high costs associated with listing shares. Another reason is to bypass the expenses incurred in meeting the stringent ongoing disclosure and legal requirements that come with maintaining their listings. In contrast, the application fee for international and U.S. companies that meet the OTCQX requirements is much smaller.



To be eligible for a listing on the OTCQX U.S. Premier Tier a U.S. company must meet specific and additional requirements. Requirements include a minimum bid price of $1 for the preceding 90 business days and meeting the financial criteria for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market.



The Premier Tier is designed to identify large, high-quality issuers that would qualify to list on a national stock exchange. The comparable OTCQX International Premier tier is for foreign companies that meet specific qualifications of the NYSE’s worldwide standards.



While stocks trading on the OTCQX have many of the same protections as more established, larger stocks, they are still considered to be speculative. There is also no guarantee that any item trading here will be of higher quality than stocks trading on other over-the-counter tiers, or even another OTC marketplace. As such, traders would be well served to implement robust due diligence before committing their capital.
What Is Other Comprehensive Basis of Accounting?  

Other Comprehensive Basis of Accounting (OCBOA) includes financial statements prepared using a system of accounting that differs from GAAP, the most common being tax-basis and cash-basis financial statements. Other Comprehensive Basis of Accounting (OCBOA) systems also includes a statutory basis of accounting such as that used by insurance companies to comply with the rules of a state insurance commission, as well as financial statements prepared using defined criteria that are well-supported in popular literature.





Key Takeaways


Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is a method of creating financial statements based on principles issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB); public U.S. companies must follow GAAP.
Other Comprehensive Basis of Accounting (OCBOA) is a non-GAAP accounting protocol used to generate financial statements.
OCBAOA examples include the income tax basis of accounting, the cash basis of accounting, and the modified cash basis of accounting.
Statements prepared under OCBOA are easier to analyze than those created under GAAP; they also often cost less to prepare.
OCBOA doesn't require a statement of cash flows, versus GAAP, and is perceived as having disclosures that are insufficient.



   Understanding OCBOA  

Two major advantages of financial statements prepared under OCBOA are: they are easier to understand than statements prepared under GAAP, which can be quite complex, and they may cost significantly less to prepare than GAAP-based statements. A key difference between GAAP-basis financial statements and those prepared under OCBOA is that the latter does not require a statement of cash flows.



One criticism of OCBOA statements is that disclosures are not adequate. As a result, it is recommended that comprehensive disclosures be made by a company that has adopted OCBOA, including the basis of accounting used, contingent liabilities, and risks and uncertainties.



Under the Statement on Auditing Standards (United States) No. 62, Special Reports, an OCBOA is any one of:



A statutory basis of accounting (for example, a basis of accounting insurance companies use under the rules of a state insurance commission).Income-tax-basis financial statements.Cash-basis and modified-cash-basis financial statements.Financial statements prepared using definitive criteria having substantial support in accounting literature that the preparer applies to all material items appearing in the statements (such as the price level basis of accounting).


   Special Considerations  

In situations where GAAP-basis statements aren't necessary because of loan covenants, regulatory requirements, or similar circumstances, an OCBOA alternative may be the preferred format.



OCBOA statements may be more useful for certain entities based on who the users are and what they are expecting to see. They may be required by a regulatory agency or may be tied to budgets and management decisions. In addition, costs may be reduced since these audits may require less complex procedures and required disclosures.



Although OCBOA statements deviate from the far more common GAAP standards, they are not without a code of their own. For instance:



Professional standards still apply to OCBOA statements.OCBOA statements may be audited, compiled, or reviewed.A statement of cash flows is not required in OCBOA statements.The basis of accounting used must be disclosed, and all statements must be titled in a manner that is distinguishable from GAAP basis titles.Disclosures should be comparable to those of a GAAP basis statement and, accordingly, should provide either the relevant disclosures required by GAAP or information that communicates the substance of those required disclosures.If modifying an OCBOA basis, modifications cannot be so extensive as to effectively result in a GAAP basis statement with departures.
What Are Other Current Assets (OCA)?  

Other current assets (OCA) is a category of things of value that a company owns, benefits from, or uses to generate income that can be converted into cash within one business cycle. They are referred to as “other” because they are uncommon or insignificant, unlike typical current asset items such as cash, securities, accounts receivable, inventory, and prepaid expenses.



The OCA account is listed on the balance sheet and is a component of a firm's total assets.





Key Takeaways

Other current assets are liquid assets that are characterized as uncommon or insignificant.They are listed on the balance sheet alongside other assets and are convertible into cash within one year.Because these assets are recorded rarely, or are insignificant, the net balance in the OCA account is typically quite small.


   Understanding Other Current Assets (OCA)  

Assets are broken down on the balance sheet as either fixed assets or current assets. Fixed assets are typically long-term tangible pieces of property, such as buildings, computer equipment, land, and machinery, that a firm owns and uses in its operations to generate income. They have useful lives that span over a year and are not liquid. 



Current assets, on the other hand, are all the assets of a company that are expected to be conveniently sold, consumed, utilized, or exhausted through standard business operations. They can easily be liquidated for cash, usually within one year, and are considered when calculating a firm's ability to pay short-term liabilities. Examples of current assets include cash and cash equivalents (CCE), marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventory, and prepaid expenses.



Current assets that are uncommon will not fall into one of the defined categories listed above. Instead, these assets will be lumped together into a generic “other” category and recognized as other current assets (OCA) on the balance sheet.



Sometimes, one-off situations, explained in a company’s 10-K filings, will result in recognizing other current assets (OCA). Because these assets are rarely recorded, or are insignificant, the net balance in the OCA account is typically quite small. Examples of other current assets (OCA) include: 



Advances paid to employees or suppliers
A piece of property that is being readied for sale
Restricted cash or investments
Cash surrender value of life insurance policies


   Real-World Example of Other Current Assets (OCA)  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



For the quarter ending March 31, 2019, Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) recorded total assets of $263.28 billion on its balance sheet. Of this total, 61% were attributed to current assets. As you can see in the table above, other current assets (OCA) made up a small proportion of the $159.89 billion of current assets. They were listed at $7.05 billion, meaning they accounted for just 4% of the company’s liquid assets.


   Special Considerations  

Microsoft did not provide a clearer breakdown of its other current assets (OCA) in its latest 10-Q and 10-K statements. Because they represent a limited source of liquidity for a company and may not have a significant impact on a business’s overall financial situation, not adding more detailed information on them is common.



When other current assets (OCA) are discussed, information will be provided in the footnotes to the financial statements. Explanations may be necessary, for example, when there is a notable change in other current assets (OCA) from one period to the next.



Other current assets (OCA) are expected to be disposed within a year or to mature into another form. Thus, the value of a company's other current assets (OCA) may vary greatly from year to year, depending on the health of the company and how it spends its money. 






It is useful to determine how material these assets are, as they may distort a firm's liquidity.



If the funds in OCA grow to a material amount, it may include one or more assets that would need to be reclassified into one or more of the major defined current assets accounts. In effect, when funds in OCA grow to a significant level, the account becomes important enough to be listed separately and added to one of the major current accounts on the balance sheet. This provides insight for anyone reviewing the company’s balance sheet since the nature of the recorded items will be better understood.
What Are Other Current Liabilities?  

Other current liabilities, in financial accounting, are categories of short-term debt that are lumped together on the liabilities side of the balance sheet. The term "current liabilities" refers to items of short-term debt that a firm must pay within 12 months. To that, companies add the word "other" to describe those current liabilities that are not significant enough to identify separately on their own lines in financial statements, so they are grouped together as "other current liabilities."



Other current liabilities may be contrasted with other current assets, found on the assets side of the balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

The term, other current liabilities is a line item on the balance sheet.The word "other" means that these current liabilities are not significant enough to occupy their own line.They are grouped together for the sake of simplicity and readability.


   Understanding Other Current Liabilities  

Before you can understand the concept of other current liabilities, you must know what the term current liabilities means.






Other current liabilities are simply current liabilities that are not important enough to occupy their own lines on the balance sheet, so they are grouped together.


  Current Liabilities  

The current liabilities section of the balance sheet lists the debt obligations that a company must pay within 12 months, as opposed to long-term liabilities, which a company may pay down over time. In addition to the popular accounts payable item, examples of current liabilities consist of things like short-term loans from banks, including a line of credit; notes payable; dividends and interest payable; bond maturity proceeds payable; consumer deposits; reserves for taxes; and accrued benefits and payroll.​


  Other Current Liabilities  

Depending on the company and its industry, you will see many kinds of items listed under other current liabilities. Usually, you can find explanations of these "other" liabilities somewhere in the company's annual report or Form 10-K; they also may be detailed in the footnotes to the financial statements.



Often, you can discern the meaning of the other current liability entry by its name. For example, if a business lists commercial paper or bonds payable as a current liability, you can be fairly confident that the amount listed is what will be paid to the company's bondholders in the short term. The same is true for accrued benefits and payroll; these categories are monies owed to employees as bonuses and salaries, which the company has not yet paid but needs to pay within the year.


   Why Use Other Current Liabilities?  

Financial statements can become quite complex. If every asset and liability account were listed by line item, the balance sheet could balloon to many pages, which would be less useful to readers. So some companies aggregate their balance sheet accounts for the sake of simplicity; citing other current liabilities on one line as a catch-all for liabilities coming due within the next-12 months that do not fit neatly into any other descriptive line item.



Accounts that require greater transparency often become a single line item, and accounts that are not essential to a firm's core operations may be grouped together as "other."


   Special Considerations  

Although the footnotes to the balance sheet contain much detail concerning the other current liabilities, these should not be confused with off-balance-sheet financing activities, whose disclosures are also included in the footnotes. Because off-balance-sheet financing adds the potential for manipulating financial statements, these entries in the footnotes are often subject to intense scrutiny by auditors and investors.



Using other current liabilities as a category is standard practice and does not need the level of review often seen with off-balance sheet items.
What Are Other Long-Term Liabilities?  

Other long-term liabilities are a line item on a balance sheet that lumps together obligations that are not due within 12 months. These debts that are less urgent to repay are a part of their total liabilities but are categorized as “other” when the company doesn’t deem them important enough to warrant individual identification.





Key Takeaways

Other long-term liabilities are debts due beyond one year that are not deemed significant enough to warrant individual identification on a company's balance sheet.Other long-term liabilities are lumped together on the balance sheet rather than broken down one by one and given an individual figure.Some companies may disclose the composition of these liabilities in the footnotes to their financial statements if they believe they are material.


   Understanding Other Long-Term Liabilities  

Liabilities are debts that a company owes. They appear on the balance sheet and are categorized as either current—they must be paid back within a year—or long-term—they are not due for at least 12 months, or the length of a company’s operating cycle. 



Then there are other liabilities. In financial statements, companies use the term “other” to refer to anything extra that is not significant enough to identify separately. Because they aren’t deemed particularly noteworthy, such items are grouped together rather than broken down one by one and ascribed an individual figure.



Other long-term liabilities can be defined as the rest of the debts that a company is required to pay back in a period of a year or more that are not separately accounted for and identified in the company's balance sheet.





Important

Some companies disclose the composition of these liabilities in their footnotes to the financial statements if they believe they are material.



In many cases, it is just a matter of presentation preference whether or not to itemize these material liabilities on the balance sheet or aggregate them under "other long-term liabilities” and break the entry down in the notes. Indeed, it is often possible to determine what makes up the specifics of other long-term liabilities on a balance sheet by consulting the footnotes within the company's 10-K filing or annual report. However, this isn’t always strictly necessary, meaning that not all companies will provide additional details of these particular obligations.


   Types of Other Long-Term Liabilities  

Other long-term liabilities might include items such as pension liabilities, capital leases, deferred credits, customer deposits, and deferred tax liabilities. In the case of holding companies, it can also contain things such as intercompany borrowings—loans made from one of the company's divisions or subsidiaries to another.


   Special Considerations  

Lumping together a group of debts without identifying the nature of the debt might sound like a potential red flag. In reality, this practice is normal and shouldn’t raise concern, provided that the obligations in question are relatively small compared to the company's total liabilities. They should also be comparable to how the company has operated in the past—sometimes, year-to-year comparisons of other long-term liabilities are provided in financial statement footnotes.



If the amount of other long-term liabilities as a percentage of total liabilities (as displayed on the balance sheet) is high enough to merit investigation, and there is no associated note, the analyst could call the investor relations (IR) contact to ask questions.


   Example of Other Long-Term Liabilities  

Ford Motor Co. (F) reported approximately $28.4 billion of other long-term liabilities on its balance sheet for fiscal year (FY) 2020, representing around 10% of total liabilities. In the notes to the financial statements, the main components were broken down into pension liabilities, other post-retirement employee benefits, employee benefit plans, dealers' customer allowances and claims, and others.
What Are Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB)?  

Other post-employment benefits (OPEB) are the benefits, other than pension distributions, that employees may begin to receive from their employer once they retire. Other post-employment benefits can include life insurance, health insurance, and deferred compensation. These benefits are also referred to as "other post-retirement benefits."





Key Takeaways

Other post-employment benefits (OPEBs) are benefits, other than pension distributions, that some employers provide to retirees.OPEBs can include paid health insurance, life insurance, and deferred compensation.OPEBS are not guaranteed unless plan documents specifically state that the employer cannot change or discontinue them.


   Types of Other Post-Employment Benefits  

The main types of other post-employment benefits are generally health insurance, life insurance, and deferred compensation. Here are more details about those benefits you may receive from your employer.


  Health insurance  

Retiree health insurance is generally provided as part of a group plan, much as it probably was when the employee was still working. The group plan may be the same one offered to current employees, or it may be a separate plan just for retirees.



In many cases, if the retiree has enrolled in Medicare, the retiree coverage will be secondary. That is, Medicare will pay its portion of medical bills and the retiree coverage will pick up some part of the remainder. But terms can vary widely from plan to plan, so retirees should check their employer's Summary Plan Description (SPD) for details.


  Life insurance  

Like health insurance, the life insurance that employers may provide to retirees is typically part of a group plan and generally comes in the form of term life insurance. Typically, your coverage ends when your employment ends, such as if you leave, retire, or are terminated.


  Deferred compensation  

Deferred-compensation arrangements, which are also considered a post-employment benefit, pay the employee a salary or lump sum at some predetermined time, typically after they retire. These plans come in two distinct types—qualified and non-qualified—but serve the same basic purpose, which is to defer taxes while the employee is still working and provide income in the future, ideally when that person is in a lower marginal tax bracket.


  Other "other" benefits  

In addition to those other post-employment benefits, some employers may provide their retirees with dental and vision care, legal services, and tuition reimbursement, among other benefits.


   Which Businesses Offer Other Post-Employment Benefits?  

Businesses and other organizations that may provide benefits to employees after they retire include private sector companies; state, county, and municipal governments; and religious and educational institutions.



Although these benefits are mostly employer-paid, retired employees may have to share a portion of the costs through copayments and deductibles, as well as making contributions to the plan back when they were still working. Labor unions may also provide other post-employment benefits to their members.


   How Are Other Post-Employment Benefits Taxed?  

Whether retirees must pay income taxes on their OPEB depends on the type of benefit. Health insurance coverage is generally not taxable. Employer-paid life insurance premiums may be partially taxable if the death benefit exceeds $50,000.



Deferred compensation arrangements come in many different permutations, in part depending on whether the employer is a for-profit business or a government or not-for-profit entity. Either way, the income from such an arrangement is generally taxed in the year that the retiree receives it.






Most employers require that people who are 65 or older and eligible for retiree health benefits enroll in both Medicare Part A and Part B, according to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.


   Are Other Post-Employment Benefits Guaranteed?  

Retirees who receive other post-employment benefits should note that unless there is a clear and specific agreement in writing, their employer can often change or eliminate those benefits at its discretion, according to the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL).



For that reason it's worth checking the Summary Plan Description (SPD) the employer or plan administrator must provide to see exactly how it refers to other post-employment benefits, such as health coverage.



If in the SPD your employer has reserved the right to change the terms of your health plan, you may lose coverage at any time during your retirement, according to the Department of Labor.



If your employer agreed to provide specific health care benefits for a definite period of time or for life, and they did not reserve the right to change the plan in any formal written plan document, you should be covered.


   Implications for Employers  

Other post-retirement benefits can be expensive for employers to fund and administer. As with many forms of retirement compensation, they also involve stringent reporting requirements.



Among other useful resources, the rules governing how companies should report pension costs and other post-employment obligations are covered by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined Benefit Plans—General (Subtopic 715-20).



The American Society of Pension Professionals & Actuaries (ASPPA) also offers advice for actuaries and others on how to comply with the required disclosure process.




What Is the Biggest Other Post-Employment Benefit?
The most significant Other Post-Employment Benefit (OPEB) is generally medical insurance, but life insurance and and other benefits are also included in this term.




How Does Deferred Compensation Work?
With deferred compensation, the plan withholds a portion of your pay until a specific date, usually when you retire. It is part of your salary that is not paid or taxed until the future. Deferred compensation is usually used as an incentive to hold onto key employees.




Can Employer Cut Your Retiree Health Benefits?
If your employer provided you with health benefits in your retirement years, be aware that they could potentially cut those benefits under some circumstances. Private sector employers are not required to provide health benefits in retirement years, and if they do they may legally cut back on those benefits unless they promised in writing not to do so.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding your Other Post-Employment Benefits can help you better prepare for your retirement years. Consider consulting with a professional financial advisor to review your overall retirement plan and how any post-retirement benefits you receive from an employer will play a role.
What Are Other Post-Retirement Benefits?  

Other post-retirement benefits are benefits, other than pension distributions, paid to employees during their retirement years. Post-retirement benefits may include life insurance and medical plans, or premiums for such benefits, as well as deferred-compensation arrangements.



Although these benefits are mostly employer-paid, retired employees often share in the cost of these benefits through co-payments, payment of deductibles, and making employee contributions to the plan when required. Other post-retirement benefits may also be referred to as "other post-employment benefits (OPEB)."





Key Takeaways

Other post-retirement benefits include benefits that employees are paid when they retire that are not pension distributions.Employees often share the cost of these benefits through co-payments.Other post-retirement benefits might include dental, legal services, and tuition credit.


   Understanding Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

The benefits that fall within this category are all of the non-cash payment benefits available to employees, including dental, vision care, legal services, and tuition credits. These additional benefits, along with traditional pension benefits, can be a large expenditure for companies offering these plans, especially if the plans are fully funded by the company.



The costs of these plans can be found in a company's financial statements, usually in the notes, which will also disclose the size of the obligation along with how well funded the fund is.



Post-retirement benefits may be provided by local and federal government agencies, private and public companies, and nonprofit institutions, such as charities, religious groups, colleges, and universities. Such benefits may be paid for (in full or in part) by the employer, the retiree, or a combination of the two.


   Other Post-Retirement Benefits and Cost  

Direct contributions that pay for any post-employment benefits can expose an employer to certain risks and liabilities. For example, take the example of a former worker who is granted health insurance coverage at the cost/premium rates as current employees.



Typically, a retired worker will be older than the average current employee, and will, therefore, be more likely to incur higher medical expenses. There is also the potential that the health insurance coverage they are offered will not cover the costs of their care, possibly leaving gaps in coverage.



As with other forms of retirement compensation, other post-retirement benefits can come with stringent reporting requirements due to their costs to an organization, as well as for the overall return on investment compared to the value of the work employees have performed before retirement.


   Other Post-Retirement Benefits and Compliance  

The rules governing how companies report pension costs and obligations, as well as the disclosure of pension assets and obligations, are covered under Accounting Standards Codification Section 715 (ASC 715), formerly called the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 87/88/158. The American Society of Pension Professionals & Actuaries (ASPPA) provides a guide on how to manage the ASC 715 process, which describes the disclosure information for a client’s financial reports, as well as lists the methodology used to complete the required actuarial calculations.
What Is Other Real Estate Owned (OREO)?  

Other Real Estate Owned (OREO) is a bank accounting term that refers to real estate property assets that a bank holds, but that are not part of its business. Oftentimes, these assets are acquired due to foreclosure proceedings. A large quantity of OREO assets on a bank balance sheet may raise concerns about the overall health of the institution.


   Understanding Other Real Estate Owned  

When a real estate property is deemed "real estate owned," it means that the property is now owned by a lender because the borrower defaulted on their mortgage, and the property did not sell at foreclosure auction. Banks are not typically in the business of owning real estate, and end up in that position when something goes wrong with their borrower (usually foreclosure). A former premise of a bank that has not yet sold would be another example of a bank's OREO assets, since the property is no longer income-producing. Since the real estate is not being held as an income-producing asset, it is treated differently in the bank's accounting records and reporting. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) regulates banks' holdings of OREO assets.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Most OREO assets are available for sale by the banks who own them. Many states have laws that regulate the acquisition and maintenance of OREO properties. Banks are generally required to maintain, keep insurance on, pay taxes on, and actively market them.﻿﻿



Increasing OREO on a bank’s balance sheet may indicate that the institution’s credit is deteriorating while its non-earning assets are growing. Since real estate is not a liquid asset, high levels of OREO can harm a bank's liquidity.﻿﻿
What Are Out-of-Pocket Expenses?  

Out-of-pocket expenses are costs that an individual is responsible for paying that may or may not be reimbursed later. The term is most often used to describe an employee's work-related expenses that the company later reimburses. It also is used to indicate a health insurance policyholder's nonreimbursable share of medical expenses such as deductibles, copays, and coinsurance.





Key Takeaways


An out-of-pocket expense is a payment you make with your own money that may be reimbursed later by an employer.
Work-related out-of-pocket expenses are usually reimbursed by the employer.
In health insurance, out-of-pocket expenses are your share of the medical costs you incur and may include deductibles, copays, and coinsurance.
Health insurance plans have legally-mandated out-of-pocket maximums that cap the total amount you must pay each year for covered healthcare expenses.
Some out-of-pocket expenses can be deducted from your income taxes. However, those expenses must add up to a substantial percentage of income if they are to exceed the current standard deduction.



   Understanding Out-of-Pocket Expenses  

Employees often spend their own money on business-related expenses, especially if they travel on behalf of a company. These out-of-pocket expenses are typically reimbursed by the employer, using a company-approved process. Common examples of work-related out-of-pocket expenses include airfare, car rentals, taxis or ride-sharing fares, gas, tolls, parking, lodging, and meals, as well as work-related supplies and tools.



The term is also used in health insurance policies to refer to the portion of a medical cost that the insurance company doesn't cover. Out-of-pocket healthcare expenses include deductibles, copays, and coinsurance.



Health insurance plans have out-of-pocket maximums that are set by federal law. These are caps on the amount of money that a policyholder must spend each year on healthcare expenses. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) requires all group and individual plans to stay within annually updated guidelines for out-of-pocket maximums.



For 2022, the out-of-pocket limits are $8,700 for individual coverage and $17,400 for family coverage. For 2023, the out-of-pocket limits increase to $9,100 for an individual and $18,200 for a family. Plans can't have out-of-pocket maximums that exceed these limits, but many offer lower maximums.


   Out-of-Pocket Maximums vs. Deductibles  

In health insurance, the deductible is the amount you pay each year for covered costs before the insurance coverage kicks in. When the deductible is met, the policyholder "shares" the costs with the insurance plan through coinsurance. With an 80/20 plan, for example, the policyholder pays 20% of the cost while the plan picks up the remaining 80%.



The amount you pay for coinsurance—as well as your copays and deductible—all count toward the out-of-pocket maximum for the year. When you reach your out-of-pocket maximum, the plan pays 100% of covered costs for the rest of the year.



Some plans have higher deductibles than others. Typically, the lower the premium you pay, the higher the deductible, and the higher the premium you pay, the lower the deductible.


  High-Deductible Health Plans (HDHPs)  

A high deductible health plan (HDHP) can save you money in the form of lower monthly premiums. You also may get a tax break on medical expenses through a health savings account (HSA).



According to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules, for the 2022 tax year, an HDHP is a health insurance plan with a deductible of at least $1,400 for an individual plan or at least $2,800 for a family plan. For 2023, the numbers rise to $1,500 for an individual plan and $3,000 for a family plan.



For 2022, out-of-pocket costs may not exceed $7,050 for an individual or $14,100 for a family. For 2023, the figures are $7,500 for an individual and $15,000 for a family.



An HDHP provides 100% coverage for preventive services from in-network providers before you meet your deductible.



For individuals who don’t anticipate many medical expenses for the upcoming year, it makes sense to minimize premiums and choose an HDHP, since you probably won't need enough healthcare to get past the high deductible. If you anticipate significant medical expenses, a plan with a lower deductible but a higher premium would be preferable so that the insurance reimbursement kicks in earlier.



An HDHP allows the holder to contribute to an HSA. Policyholders in the 24% federal tax bracket who incur $3,000 in medical expenses can use an HSA to pay for them with pretax dollars.



HSAs have annual contribution limits as well:



For the 2022 tax year, the maximum allowable contribution is $3,650 for an individual plan or $7,300 for a family plan. People ages 55 and older can contribute an additional $1,000 a year.



For the 2023 tax year, the maximum allowable contribution is $3,850 for an individual plan or $7,750 for a family. The "catch-up" provision still applies.






When deciding whether to choose a plan with a high or low deductible, estimate your likely medical expenses for the year and research the premiums, deductibles, and out-of-pocket maximums for the available plans.


   Examples of Out-of-Pocket Expenses  

Here's an example of work-related out-of-pocket expenses. Assume an employee has a meeting with a potential client. The employee spends $250 on airfare, $50 on Uber rides, $100 on a hotel, and $100 on meals—all charged to their own credit card. After the trip, the employee submits an expense report for $500 for their out-of-pocket expenses. The employer then issues a reimbursement check for $500 to the employee.



One example of out-of-pocket health expenses is prescription medications. Many health insurance plans cover prescriptions, but the amount you pay depends on your deductible responsibilities. If you have not met your deductible amount, you will have to pay out of pocket for any prescription medications until you have.



However, some health insurance plans allow generic drugs to be purchased at discounted rates regardless of whether the annual deductible has been met. Some medical plans have a combined medical and prescription deductible.



Here's an example:



Lisa has a $2,500 combined deductible. She has already paid $2,350 in out-of-pocket expenses toward her deductible and now needs to purchase $150 worth of prescription medicine. Lisa's out-of-pocket cost will be $150. However, her combined deductible will now be met for the year.



When you have met your deductible, you may still have to pay an amount for each prescription. For example, a plan might state that you must pay $10 for each refill of generic drugs or prescription medicine, meaning your out-of-pocket cost will be $10 for each prescription.


   Other Types of Out-of-Pocket Expenses  

In the real estate industry, out-of-pocket expenses refer to any expenses above and beyond the mortgage itself that the buyer incurs during the sale process. These costs vary depending on local property and real estate, but they typically include the cost of a home inspection, appraisal fees, and escrow account deposits as well as closing costs, which can include loan origination fees, attorney fees, and property taxes.


   Out-of-Pocket Expenses and Tax Returns  

Some out-of-pocket expenses can be deducted from your personal income taxes. For example, income tax deductions are still available for expenses related to charitable donations and unreimbursed medical expenses.



Since the passage of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017, individuals can no longer deduct unreimbursed business expenses.



Though tax deductions don't represent a direct reimbursement, there is an ancillary benefit to them because claiming these expenses as a deduction can lower your tax burden for the year.


  Moving and Relocation Expenses  

Moving expenses, according to the IRS, are costs the taxpayer incurs as a result of relocating for a new job or transferring to a new location. However, the TCJA eliminated the deduction of moving expenses for tax years 2018 through 2025, except for members of the military on active duty who move as the result of a military order.






Members of the armed forces can use IRS Form 3903 to claim the cost of moving expenses as federal income tax deductions.



Active-duty members of the U.S. military can deduct moving expenses if they incurred them in response to a military order that requires a permanent change of station. The expenses that qualify include the cost of packing, crating, hauling, in-transit storage, and insurance.



If the government provides and pays for any of your moving or storage expenses, you should not claim these expenses as a deduction on your taxes.




What Does Out-of-Pocket Mean?
An out-of-pocket expense is a payment you make with your own money, whether or not it is reimbursed. It could be a business expense, such as paying for a flight that is reimbursed by your employer, or a health expense that you pay before your total outlay reaches the insurance deductible.




What Is the Difference Between a Deductible and an Out-of-Pocket Expense?
A health insurance plan's deductible and its out-of-pocket limit both represent points at which the insurance company pays for all or some of your subsequent health costs. However, they are two different things:The deductible is the amount of money you have to pay on your own every year for your covered medical expenses before your insurance company starts picking up the bills.The out-of-pocket limit is the maximum amount of your own money you will have to pay for all of your insured healthcare during the year.The out-of-pocket limit is your total expenditure in the year, including your deductible payments, your coinsurance, and your copayments (if your plan has them) up to a total dollar amount.The out-of-pocket limit is set by federal law. For the 2022 tax year, your costs may not exceed $7,050 for an individual or $14,100 for a family. For 2023, the figures rise to $7,500 for an individual and $15,000 for a family.




What Is Not an Example of an Out-of-Pocket Expense?
The monthly premium you pay for your healthcare plan does not count as an out-of-pocket expense.Out-of-pocket costs include deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments for covered services, plus all costs for services that aren't covered. 




Is It Better to Pay Out-of-Pocket or Use Health Insurance?
It is tempting to get a high-deductible plan, choosing to pay out-of-pocket for routine healthcare in return for lower monthly premiums.That can work if you don't have considerable medical expenses. It could get expensive if you unexpectedly need substantial medical care.


  The Bottom Line  

When choosing a healthcare plan, it is wise to estimate what your healthcare costs may be each year before deciding on a low deductible-high premium or high deductible-low premium plan.



Also consider that your healthcare needs will change as you age, when you have a family, and when your income changes. All these factors will affect how much coverage you need and what level of out-of-pocket costs you can afford.
What Is an Out-of-Pocket Maximum?  

An out-of-pocket maximum is the most you have to pay per year for covered healthcare services. When you have spent this amount in your plan year on deductibles, copayments, and coinsurance for in-network care and services, your health insurer will pay for 100% of your healthcare services.



An out-of-pocket maximum helps you to control the cost of your healthcare because you know the maximum you will ever have to pay in a year. The out-of-pocket maximum for marketplace plans can't be above a set amount each year. For the 2022 plan year, this amount is $8,700 for an individual and $17,400 for a family.



Out-of-pocket maximums help individuals and families avoid major financial problems associated with high healthcare costs in years when they need a lot of treatment. There are some exceptions, though, so make sure you understand what is and isn't covered. Otherwise, you may end up with a nasty surprise.





Key Takeaways

An out-of-pocket maximum, also referred to as an out-of-pocket limit, is the most a health insurance policyholder will pay each year for covered healthcare expenses.When this limit is reached, your health plan will cover 100% of your qualified expenses.You can generally choose from a range of plans with different out-of-pocket limits. However, plans with lower out-of-pocket maximums normally have higher premiums, and those with higher out-of-pocket maximums have lower premiums.Some individuals (or families) may qualify for lower out-of-pocket maximums if they earn under certain income thresholds or meet other requirements.


   Understanding Out-of-Pocket Maximums  

In general, an out-of-pocket maximum is the most you have to pay per year for covered healthcare services. When you have spent up to this amount on your healthcare in a year, your healthcare insurer will pay for 100% of your healthcare costs. Deductibles, copayments, and coinsurance all count toward your out-of-pocket maximum under the Affordable Care Act.



In practice, however, it's a little more complicated than that.



For example, there are some costs that aren't included in your out-of-pocket maximum. These include:



Your insurance premiums
Anything you spend for services your plan doesn't cover
Out-of-network care and services
Costs above the allowed amount for a service that a provider may charge



These exceptions mean that even when you reach your out-of-pocket maximum for the year, you will still have to pay your premiums to stay covered. You should also be careful to use in-network healthcare providers if you want to control the costs of your healthcare, because out-of-network costs don't count toward your out-of-pocket maximum.



Also, costs that aren't considered covered expenses don't count toward the out-of-pocket maximum. For example, if the insured pays $2,000 for an elective surgery that isn't covered, that amount will not count toward the maximum. This means that you could end up paying more than the out-of-pocket limit in a given year.


  Out-of-pocket maximum limits  

The highest out-of-pocket maximum you will have to pay is controlled by federal law. The government has set limits that control how much healthcare insurers can charge for covered services per year. These are:



For the 2022 plan year: The out-of-pocket limit for a Marketplace plan can’t be more than $8,700 for an individual and $17,400 for a family.For the 2021 plan year: The out-of-pocket limit for a Marketplace plan can’t be more than $8,550 for an individual and $17,100 for a family.


  Choosing an out-of-pocket maximum  

Different healthcare plans have different out-of-pocket maximum limits, so you may have a choice when it comes to your out-of-pocket maximum.



In general, you should choose the plan with the lowest out-of-pocket maximum. This will keep the maximum amount you spend per year as low as possible. However, insurance companies balance the out-of-pocket maximums they offer against the premiums they charge.



This means that plans with low out-of-pocket maximums have high premiums and vice versa. For example, Health Insurance Marketplace Bronze and Silver health plans generally have lower monthly premiums and higher out-of-pocket limits. The Gold and Platinum plans, which have higher monthly premiums, typically have lower out-of-pocket limits.


  Cost-sharing reductions  

Lower-income individuals and families may qualify for reduced out-of-pocket maximums through cost-sharing reduction discounts. To be eligible, you must meet income requirements and enroll in a Health Insurance Marketplace plan in the Silver category.



Cost-sharing reductions offer a range of benefits:



You'll have a lower deductible. For example, if a particular Silver plan has a $750 deductible, and you qualify for cost-sharing reductions, your deductible for the same plan could be $300 or $500, depending on your income.You'll have lower copayments or coinsurance. These are the payments you make each time you get care—for example, $30 for a doctor visit.You'll have a lower out-of-pocket maximum. Instead of $5,000, your out-of-pocket maximum for a particular Silver plan could be $3,000.



These are just examples, though. In order to see how cost-sharing reductions can affect how much you pay for healthcare, shop for Silver plans in the Marketplace.



There are also special cost-sharing reduction rules for American Indians and Alaska Natives.


   Out-of-Pocket Maximum vs. Deductible  

An out-of-pocket maximum is different from a plan's deductible.



The money you pay for covered services goes toward your deductible first. The deductible is the amount you must pay before your insurance kicks in. Then, when you've met the deductible, you may be responsible for a percentage of covered costs (this is called coinsurance). These payments count toward your out-of-pocket maximum. When you reach that amount, the insurance plan pays 100% of covered expenses.


   Out-of-Pocket Maximum Example  

Here's an example of how out-of-pocket maximums work. Suppose your out-of-pocket maximum is $6,000, your deductible is $4,500, and your coinsurance is 40%.



If you have covered surgery that costs $10,000, you'll first pay your $4,500 deductible, which then leaves a $5,500 bill. Because your coinsurance is 40%, you would owe another $2,200, and the insurance company would cover the remaining $3,300—that is, if you didn't have an out-of-pocket maximum.



However, your annual expenses are capped at $6,000. You've already paid $4,500, so you pay only $1,500 of the $5,500 balance. The insurance company picks up the remaining $4,000. Your total cost for the surgery is $6,000, and follow-up visits with your in-network doctor are paid by your insurance because you've already met your out-of-pocket maximum for the year.


   The Bottom Line  

An out-of-pocket maximum is, in general, the maximum you will pay for healthcare in a year. However, there are important exceptions, so make sure you understand what is and isn't covered in your out-of-pocket maximum.



Lower-income individuals and families may qualify for reduced out-of-pocket maximums through cost-sharing reduction discounts. To be eligible, you must meet income requirements and enroll in a Health Insurance Marketplace plan in the Silver category.
What Is Out of the Money (OTM)?  

"Out of the money" (OTM) is an expression used to describe an option contract that only contains extrinsic value. These options will have a delta of less than 0.50.



An OTM call option will have a strike price that is higher than the market price of the underlying asset. Alternatively, an OTM put option has a strike price that is lower than the market price of the underlying asset.



OTM options may be contrasted with in the money (ITM) options.





Key Takeaways

Out of the money is also known as OTM, meaning an option has no intrinsic value, only extrinsic value.A call option is OTM if the underlying price is trading below the strike price of the call. A put option is OTM if the underlying's price is above the put's strike price.An option can also be in the money or at the money.OTM options are less expensive than ITM or ATM options. This is because ITM options have intrinsic value, and ATM options are very close to having intrinsic value.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Option Basics  

For a premium, stock options give the purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying stock at an agreed-upon price before an agreed-upon date. This agreed-upon price is referred to as the strike price, and the agreed-upon date is known as the expiration date.



An option to buy an underlying asset is a call option, while an option to sell an underlying asset is called a put option. A trader may purchase a call option if they expect the underlying asset's price to exceed the strike price before the expiration date. Conversely, a put option enables the trader to profit on a decline in the asset's price. Because they derive their value from that of an underlying security, options are derivatives.



An option can be OTM, ITM, or at the money (ATM). An ATM option is one in which the strike price and price of the underlying are equal or very close to equal.


   Out of the Money Options  

You can tell if an option is OTM by determining what the current price of the underlying is in relation to the strike price of that option. For a call option, if the underlying price is below the strike price, that option is OTM. For a put option, if the underlying price is above the strike price, then that option is OTM. An out of the money option has no intrinsic value but only possesses extrinsic or time value.



Being out of the money doesn't mean a trader can't make a profit on that option. Each option has a cost, called the premium. A trader could have bought a far out of the money option, but now that option is moving closer to being in the money (ITM). That option could end up being worth more than the trader paid for the option, even though it is currently out of the money. At expiration, though, an option is worthless if it is OTM. Therefore, if an option is OTM, the trader will need to sell it prior to expiration in order to recoup any extrinsic value that is possibly remaining.



Consider a stock that is trading at $10. For such a stock, call options with strike prices above $10 would be OTM calls, while put options with strike prices below $10 would be OTM puts.






OTM options are typically not worth exercising, because the current market is offering a trade level more appealing than the option's strike price.


   Out of the Money vs. In the Money  

An option is said to be "in the money" (ITM) when the current market price of the underlying asset is above the strike price for a call option, or below the strike price for a put option. For example, if the market price of a stock is $60 per share and the strike price of a call option is $50 per share, then the option is ITM because the holder of the option can exercise it and buy the stock at $50 per share, which is below the current market price. Similarly, if the market price of the stock is $40 per share and the strike price of a put option is $50 per share, then the option is ITM because the holder of the option can exercise it and sell the stock at $50 per share, which is above the current market price.



An option is said to be "out of the money" (OTM) when the current market price of the underlying asset is below the strike price for a call option, or above the strike price for a put option. For example, if the market price of a stock is $40 per share and the strike price of a call option is $50 per share, then the option is OTM because the holder of the option cannot exercise it profitably at this time. Similarly, if the market price of the stock is $60 per share and the strike price of a put option is $50 per share, then the option is OTM because the holder of the option cannot exercise it profitably at this time.



Options that are ITM generally have higher premia than options that are OTM, because they give the holder the right to buy or sell the underlying asset at a favorable price. However, it's important to note that the value of an option is also affected by other factors such as the





Moneyness and Option Delta

Delta is a risk measure that estimates the change in an option's price given a $1 change in the underlying security.
OTM options have deltas that are less than 0.50 in absolute value, while ITM options have deltas that are greater than 0.50. An option whose strike price is just at or very close to the underlying market price is said to be "at the money" (ATM). ATM options have a delta close to 0.50.


   Out of the Money Options Example  

A trader wants to buy a call option on Vodafone stock. They choose a call option with a $20 strike price. The option expires in five months and costs $0.50. This gives them the right to buy 100 shares of the stock before the option expires. The total cost of the option is $50 (100 shares times $0.50), plus a trade commission. The stock is currently trading at $18.50.



Upon buying the option, there is no reason to exercise it because by exercising the option, the trader has to pay $20 for the stock when they can currently buy it at a market price of $18.50. While this option is OTM, it isn't worthless yet, as there's still potential to make a profit by selling the option rather than exercising.



For example, the trader just paid $0.50 for the potential that the stock will appreciate above $20 within the next five months. Prior to expiration, that option will still have some extrinsic value, which is reflected in the premium or cost of the option. The price of the underlying may never reach $20, but the premium of the option may increase to $0.75 or $1 if it gets close. Therefore, the trader could still reap a profit on the OTM option itself by selling it at a higher premium than they paid for it.



If the stock price moves to $22—the option is now ITM—it is worth exercising the option. The option gives them the right to buy at $20, and the current market price is $22. The difference between the strike price and the current market price is known as intrinsic value, which is $2.



In this case, our trader ends up with a net profit or benefit. They paid $0.50 for the option and that option is now worth $2. They then net $1.50 in profit or advantage. But what if the stock only rallied to $20.25 when the option expired? In this case, the option is still ITM, but the trader actually lost money. They paid $0.50 for the option, but the option only has $0.25 of value now, resulting in a loss of $0.25 ($0.50 - $0.25).




What Happens to an Out of the Money Option at Expiration?
At expiration, out of the money options expire worthless.




Why Do Out of the Money Options Have Value Prior to Expiration?
Out of the money options still have time (extrinsic) value. This is because there is some probability that the option will finish in the money come expiration. Thus, the longer until expiration, the more valuable an out of the money will be, all else equal, since with more time, there are more chances for the underlying to move favorably.




What Is the Most Out of the Money Option?
An option with a zero delta would be the most OTM option, since it has effectively zero chance of finishing in the money. Such an option would also probably be very close to worthless. It will also have a delta very close to zero.


   The Bottom Line  

Out of the money (OTM) refers to options that do not have any intrinsic value; they only have extrinsic, or time value. For a call option to by OTM, it will have a strike price that is above the current market level. An OTM put with have a strike price that is below the current market price. At expiration, if an option is out of the money, it will expire worthless. OTM options can be contrasted with in the money (ITM) or at the money (ATM) options.
What Is Outcome Bias?  

Outcome bias arises when a decision is based on the outcome of previous events, without regard to how the past events developed. Outcome bias does not involve analysis of factors that lead to a previous event, and instead de-emphasizes the events preceding the outcomes and overemphasizes the outcome. Unlike hindsight bias, outcome bias does not involve the distortion of past events.


   Understanding Outcome Bias  

Outcome bias can be more dangerous than hindsight bias in that it only evaluates actual outcomes. For example, an investor decides to invest in real estate after learning a colleague made a big return on an investment in real estate when interest rates were at a different level. Rather than look at other factors that could have resulted in the colleague’s success, such as the health of the overall economy or performance of real estate, the investor is focusing on the money made by the colleague.



Gamblers also fall prey to outcome bias. While statistically, casinos come out ahead far more regularly, many gamblers use anecdotal "evidence" from friends and acquaintances to justify their continued playing. This outcome bias: that continuing to play could result in winning a large amount of money prevents the gambler from leaving the casino.



In business settings, an overemphasis on "performance" is increasingly creating an outcome-centric culture which often exacerbates people’s fears by creating up a zero-sum game in which people are either succeeding or losing and “winners” quickly get weeded out from “losers.”



As an example, few would argue with the impressive growth of social media companies. During this growth, only a handful of individuals cautioned against the methods by which growth was generated. Upon learning personal and private user data was a significant driver of growth, the outcome bias of social media is on full display. In effect, ethical lapses are generally overlooked during successful outcomes. However, bad outcomes are far more likely to produce active condemnation.
What Is an Outlay Cost?  

An outlay cost is a cost incurred in order to execute a strategy or acquire an asset. Outlay costs are also paid to vendors to acquire goods such as inventory or services, such as consulting or software design. They are concrete expenses that are actually incurred in order to achieve a goal. 





Key Takeaways

Outlay costs are any costs incurred to acquire an asset or execute a strategy, but can also be costs paid to vendors for goods or services. For corporations, outlay costs for new projects include start-up, production, and asset acquisition costs.Outlay costs do not include foregone profits or benefits—also known as opportunity costs. Total costs include both the outlay cost and opportunity cost.Outlay costs reduce earnings immediately with cash accounting, while with accrual accounting they are split across all periods the expense applies and matched to related revenues.


   How Outlay Costs Work   

Outlay costs are easy to recognize and measure because they have actually been paid to outside vendors, as opposed to opportunity costs which are not actually incurred and paid to outside parties by the company. 



For corporations, outlay costs for new projects include start-up, production, and asset acquisition costs. They can also include hiring costs for strategies or projects that require an addition to the workforce in order to be carried out.


   Special Considerations  

Outlay costs include the expenses paid by a business in order to manufacture a product or provide a service, and also include fees paid to outside parties to acquire assets or services. In cash accounting, outlay costs immediately reduce earnings. In accrual accounting, outlay costs are split across all the periods that the expense applies to and matched to related revenues. 



Outlay costs do not include foregone profits or benefits—such costs are known as opportunity costs and are hidden, but an important component of a business's profitability.


   Outlay Cost vs. Total Cost  

Outlay costs, sometimes referred to as explicit costs, are direct expenses paid. These expenses can be one-time, such as repair bills, or recurring—e.g. subscription services. Direct costs can also be predictable, e.g. rent, or vary, such as utility bills. 



Meanwhile, the total cost is both the outlay cost and opportunity cost. So while outlay costs include direct payment, total costs include any indirect losses or missed benefits. That is, opportunity costs are those benefits a business misses out on by choosing one option over another. 


   Example of an Outlay Cost  

For example, if XYZ Manufacturing Company wants to purchase a new widget press they will not only have to pay for the widget press but for the fees associated with transporting the widget press to their facility, as well as the costs for getting the widget press up and running and possibly expenses for training workers to use the new widget press. All of these are outlay costs associated with acquiring a new widget press.



Then there are the implied costs of choosing one widget press over another. In addition, the other opportunity costs include choosing the widget press over another type of equipment or method.
What Does Outperform Mean?  

In financial news media outperform is commonly used as a rating given by analysts who publicly research and recommend securities. If they change their rating on a particular security to "outperform" from "market perform" or even "underperform," then something has changed in their analyses that makes them believe the security will produce higher returns, for the foreseeable future, than the major market indexes.



Another common usage of this term is as a description of how the returns of one investment compare to another. Between two investment choices, the one with better returns is said to outperform the other. This is most commonly applied to a comparison between one investment and the market in general. Investment professionals almost always compare investment returns with a benchmark index, such as the S&P 500 index, so the term is often used in reference to whether a particular investment has outperformed the S&P 500.





Key Takeaways

Outperform is often used as an analyst rating.On a scale of 1 (best) and 5 (worst), outperform is likely to be a 2.Another use of the term is simply as a comparison of performance between two securities: the better of the two outperforms the other.Companies typically outperform their peers when they manage their production and marketing efforts more efficiently.


   What Makes a Company Outperform?  

An index is composed of securities from the same industry or of companies that have a similar size in terms of market capitalization. Any factor that helps a company generate proportionally more revenue and more profit than its peers in an industry grouping will see its share price appreciate faster. This outperforming appreciation can happen for a variety of reasons: excellent management decisions, market preferences, network connections, or even luck.



Any decisions made by senior management that help a company grow revenue and earnings faster than its competitors are highlighted as a sign of excellence. These characteristics help the company build a reputation for being more likely to bring a new product to market quickly and capture more market share. Analysts identify these conditions and use them to forecast price appreciation for high-performing companies.



For example, if an investment fund uses the Standard & Poor's 500 Index as a benchmark, and if the portfolio manager of that fund analyzes stocks with a market capitalization similar to securities in the index and forecasts that 15 particular stocks will generate a higher rate of earnings per share (EPS) than the average for the index. Based on this analysis, the mutual fund increases its holdings in the 15 stocks that are expected to outperform the index.


   Examples of Analyst Ratings  

A rating is an analyst’s opinion on the rate of return for a particular company’s stock, which includes the stock’s price appreciation and dividends paid to shareholders. The investment industry does not have a standard method that is used by all analysts to rate stocks. A higher rating means that the stock’s price will outperform similar companies over a specified period.



The most common use of outperform is for a rating that is above a neutral or a hold rating and below a strong buy rating. Outperform means that the company will produce a better rate of return than similar companies, but the stock may not be the best performer in the index. An analyst’s performance is evaluated based on how stocks actually perform after a rating is assigned.


   How Portfolio Managers Are Ranked  

If a portfolio manager consistently picks stocks that outperform the benchmark, the investment fund they work for will produce a higher rate of return and those in the financial media will take notice. Money managers are ranked based on the portfolio rate of return and how those returns compare to the benchmark.



Financial sites such as Morningstar group funds by benchmark and rank every fund in order according to its performance relative to the index. Financial sites also compare the return generated by a fund to the volatility of the portfolio over time.
What Is Outplacement?  

Outplacement is any service that assists a departing employee with obtaining a new job or transitioning to a new career. Access to outplacement services is offered by some employers as an employee benefit for their staff. Outplacement services can be beneficial for all parties monetarily, professionally, and emotionally and, more often than not, ensure a peaceful end to a working relationship.





Key Takeaways

Outplacement is a service that helps a terminated employee with the transition to a new job, which can include resume writing, job search, and job coaching.Outplacement can have benefits and costs for both employers and employees, as a part of the total compensation cost of a company's labor force.Outplacement can reduce stress and turmoil for transitioning employees and mitigate risk for the employer.


   Understanding Outplacement  

No one likes to be fired or laid off from a job or to deliver the news to someone else, but going above and beyond a severance package by providing outplacement services can help both parties through an often-rough transition.



Sometimes services are offered in-house by the company that’s letting an employee go; others hire a third party when it's necessary to keep expenses lower or if tensions or awkwardness are particularly high. Outplacement services were traditionally provided at an outplacement firm so that the former employee could have access to office tools (such as a phone and computer) that they needed in order to write resumes and cover letters and find new employment. Today, many employees have home offices and may only need to visit an outplacement firm for career counseling, if at all, since counseling may also be done over the phone.



Either way, the services remain the same: resume and cover letter writing, coaching, market analysis, fine-tuning interviewing skills, salary negotiation, and other services designed to give an ex-employee the best opportunity for finding another job as quickly as possible.


   Benefits of Outplacement Services  

From an employee’s perspective, the outplacement certainly lightens the emotional load that comes with a job loss. It’s often overwhelming enough to find a pink slip on your desk. Outplacement services can often help with feelings of insecurity, embarrassment, anger, or fear of the unknown, which make a job search that much more difficult.



On the other hand, employees should recognize that employer-paid outplacement services will, in the end, be incorporated into the employer’s total labor cost. That means that any money the employer pays for outplacement could be made up by lowering total compensation in other ways. Some employees may prefer to have more cash so that they can self-insure against the possibility of job loss, or for other uses if they know that their job is secure.



From an employer’s perspective, providing outplacement services can show that the company truly cares about the person as a human being and could go a long way toward thwarting any revenge. Insurers who provide insurance against the risk of wrongful termination lawsuits look favorably at firms that have a solid outplacement plan, as it can reduce the risk of costly legal problems. Compassionate outplacement may also reduce the risk of workplace violence and active shooter situations.



It’s also a way to keep an ongoing relationship with an employee. That’s particularly important if it involves a layoff due to downsizing, not poor performance or behavior, or the person leaves on their own accord. It’s in a company’s best interest to be encouraging and supportive if it has an eye on possibly rehiring the person at a future time if conditions change.



The other aspect of providing outplacement services that bodes well for companies is the possibility of saving money on unemployment claims. While companies do not pay extra when a former employee files a claim that’s approved, the annual tax rate they pay to the state toward unemployment can be affected. That’s because that rate in some states is determined by the number of claims past employees make in a year.



On the cost side, employers should consider the normal and expected rate of turnover in their labor force. Frequent or large layoffs can considerably increase the cost of providing outplacement service. Employers should plan ahead and budget the expected cost of outplacement into their total labor cost.
What Is an Output Gap?  

The term output gap refers to the difference between the actual output of an economy and the maximum potential output of an economy expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP). A country's output gap may be either positive or negative. A negative output gap suggests that actual economic output is below the economy's full capacity for output while a positive output suggests an economy that is outperforming expectations because its actual output is higher than the economy's recognized maximum capacity output.





Key Takeaways

An output gap is a difference between an economy's actual output and its maximum potential output expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product.The output gap is a comparison between actual GDP (output) and potential GDP (maximum-efficiency output).A positive or negative output gap is an unfavorable indicator of an economy's efficiency.Policymakers often use the output gap to determine inflationary pressure so they can make policy decisions.Although it's an important economic indicator, the output gap isn't always reliable because the potential output must be estimated.


   How an Output Gap Works  

The output gap is a comparison between actual GDP and potential GDP or output and maximum-efficiency output. This is difficult to calculate because you can't estimate an economy's optimal level of operating efficiency. There is little consensus among economists about the best way to measure potential GDP but most agree that full employment is a key component of maximum output.



One method that can be used to project potential GDP is to run a trend line through actual GDP over several decades or enough time to limit the impact of short-term peaks and valleys. By following the trend line, you can estimate where GDP currently sits or what it will be at a particular point in the near future.



Determining the output gap is a simple calculation of dividing the difference between the actual and potential GDP by the potential GDP.






Because potential output isn't observable, it's often determined using historical data.


   Positive and Negative Output Gaps  

An output gap is an unfavorable indicator of an economy's efficiency, regardless of whether it's positive or negative.



A positive output gap indicates a high demand for goods and services in an economy, which may be considered beneficial for an economy. But the effect of excessively high demand is that businesses and employees must work beyond their maximum efficiency level to meet the level of demand. A positive output gap commonly spurs inflation in an economy because both labor costs and the prices of goods increase in response to the increased demand.



A negative output gap, on the other hand, indicates a lack of demand for goods and services in an economy and can lead to companies and employees operating below their maximum efficiency levels. This type of output gap points to a sluggish economy and portends a declining GDP growth rate and potential recession as wages and prices of goods typically fall when overall economic demand is low.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Output Gap  

The output gap is a very important economic indicator. While there are distinct advantages to using this metric, its use does come with certain drawbacks. We've listed some of the most common benefits and limitations to using the output gap below.


  Advantages  

Because the output gap relies on the gross domestic product in its calculation, it helps provide a picture of how the economy is doing. More specifically, it can be used as a way to determine whether the economy is underperforming or is growing too quickly. That's because this gap can help determine the rate of inflation in an economy.



The output gap can help policymakers come up with solutions to move the economy in a more favorable direction. Therefore, it plays a very key role in how they make their decisions. about both fiscal and monetary policy. For instance, the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates to curb inflation and vice versa.



Because the output gap is used by both economists and analysts on the street, the general public can also use it to make informed decisions about their finances and investments. For example, a homeowner may decide to hold off on refinancing their mortgage if the output gap means there's a chance that interest rates will increase.


  Disadvantages  

One of the main problems with the output gap is that it is hard to measure. The level of actual output is easy to determine because we know what's happening. But potential output isn't that easy to calculate because we can't determine it. The latter is a figure that can only be predicted or estimated.



How the potential output is measured can be problematic. In fact, there isn't just one way to do so. Analysts and economists may use different filters or models to do so. For instance, some experts may compute the potential output as the trend output while others consider it as the trend growth.



Another limitation to the output gap lies in how intertwined relationships are within the economy. For example, a less active workforce will lead to a drop in output. Similarly, distressed small businesses and corporations and tighter lending standards during tough economic times can also have a big impact on the potential output.





Pros

It provides a picture of how the economy is doing.
Policymakers are able to use output gap to help make decisions.
Consumers and investors can make informed decisions about their finances and investments.



Cons

Output gap is hard to measure because we can't observe potential output.
There is no uniform way to measure potential output.
Potential output relies heavily on relationships that are intertwined in the economy.





   Real-World Example of an Output Gap  

The actual GDP in the U.S. was $21.48 trillion through the fourth quarter of 2020, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. According to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, the potential GDP for the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2020 was $19.41 trillion, meaning the U.S. had a positive output gap of about 10.7% (projected GDP subtracted from actual GDP/projected GDP).



Keep in mind that this calculation is just one estimate of potential GDP in the U.S. Other analysts may have different estimates, but the consensus is that the U.S. was facing a positive output gap in 2020.



Not surprisingly, the Federal Reserve Bank in the U.S. has consistently been raising interest rates since 2016, in part in response to the positive gap. Rates were at less than 1% in 2016 and hit as high as 1.25% in the early part of 2020. The global financial crisis, though, forced the Fed to drop rates back down below 1% in mid-March 2020.


   Potential Output FAQs  
  What Is Potential Output?  

Potential output is what an economy can produce if it operates at full-employment-GDP. This is generally the highest level if and when the economy is doing very well. Unlike actual output, which is what currently happens, potential output cannot be measured and, therefore, relies on estimation.


  How Can an Economy's Output Deviate From Its Potential?  

An economy's output gap can deviate from its potential in one of two ways. A positive output indicates the economy is performing well above expectations. That's because the actual output is higher than its potential. It may also be negative when the output is below full capacity.


  What Would Help a Government Reduce an Inflationary Output Gap?  

Governments may find that reducing government spending as well as cutting down transfer payments and their bond and security issues can help reduce an inflationary output gap.


  What Happens to the Output Gap When the Economy Is in Recession?  

When an economy is in recession, it means that its actual output gap is lower than the potential output gap.


  What Can the Government Do to Move the Economy Back to Potential GDP?  

Governments can move the economy back to its potential GDP by taking a number of steps, including (but not limited to) reviewing tax rates and rebates, making moves on interest rates, and cutting or increasing government spending. The direction they choose depends on whether the actual output is positive or negative.
What Is an Outright Forward?  

An outright forward, or currency forward, is a currency contract that locks in the exchange rate and a delivery date beyond the spot value date. It is the simplest type of foreign exchange forward contract and protects an investor, importer or exporter from exchange rate fluctuations.





Key Takeaways

An outright forward, or currency forward, is a currency contract that locks in the exchange rate and a delivery date beyond the spot value date.It is the simplest type of foreign exchange forward contract and protects an investor, importer or exporter from exchange rate fluctuations.The price of an outright forward is derived from the spot rate plus or minus the forward points calculated from the interest rate differential.


   Understanding Outright Forwards  

An outright forward contract defines the terms, rate and delivery date, of the exchange of one currency for another. Companies that buy, sell or borrow from foreign businesses can use outright forward contracts to mitigate their exchange rate risk by locking in a rate that they deem to be favorable.



For example, an American company that buys materials from a French supplier may be required to provide payment for half of the total value of the euro payment now and the other half in six months. The first payment can be paid for with a spot trade, but in order to reduce currency risk from the possible appreciation of the Euro vs. the U.S. dollar, the American company can lock in the exchange rate with an outright forward purchase of Euros.



The price of an outright forward is derived from the spot rate plus or minus the forward points calculated from the interest rate differential. A point to note is that the forward rate is not a forecast of where the spot rate will be on the forward date. A currency that is more expensive to purchase for a forward date than for spot date is considered to be trading at a forward premium while one that is cheaper is said to be trading at a forward discount.



The spot foreign exchange market generally settles in two business days with the exception of the USD/CAD, which settles on the next business day. Any contract that has a delivery date that is longer than the spot date is termed a forward contract. Most currency forward contracts are for less than 12 months, but longer contracts are possible in the most liquid currency pairs. Foreign exchange forward contracts can also be used to speculate in the currency market.


   Settlement  

An outright forward is a firm commitment to take delivery of the currency that was purchased and make delivery of the currency that was sold. The counterparties must provide each other with instructions as to the specific accounts where they take delivery of currencies.



An outright forward can be closed out by entering into a new contract to do the opposite which can result in either a gain or loss versus the original deal, depending on market movements. If the close out is done with the same counterparty as the original contract, the currency amounts are usually netted under an International Swap Dealers Association agreement. This reduces the settlement risk and the amount of money that needs to change hands.
What Is an Outright Futures Position?  

An outright futures position is an unhedged futures trade that is taken on its own and is not part of a larger or more complex trade.





Key Takeaways

An outright futures position is a single directional bet position on a futures contract and is not part of a larger or more complex strategy.An outright position exposes the trader to greater risk than a hedged position, although the outright position has theoretically greater profit potential.If a hedge or offsetting position is added to an outright position, then it is no longer an outright position, but rather a hedged or partially-hedged position.


   Understanding Outright Futures Positions  

An outright futures position is a long or short trade that is not hedged from market risk. Both the potential gain and the potential risk are greater for outright positions than for positions that are covered or hedged in some way. An outright position is one that stands on its own and is not part of a larger or more complex trade. A profit is made from a long outright futures position if the price rises following the purchase, or from a short trade if the price falls after the short is initiated.



An outright position is one that is a pure long or short bet on the direction of the futures contract. Hedging or offsetting that position with another position means it is no longer an outright position.



Outright futures are also called naked futures because they leave the investor exposed to market fluctuations. To reduce risk, the investor may choose to purchase a protective offsetting option, an offsetting position in the futures' underlying security, or an opposite position in a related market. Hedging or offsetting the risk means it is no longer an outright futures position.



An outright futures position is inherently risky because there is no protection against an adverse move. Most traders do not consider trading liquid futures contracts to be excessively risky, especially because in most cases it is easy to cover or to sell the position back to the market. Most speculative positions in the futures market are outright positions.



However, a declining market for an investor holding a long position in a futures contract still has the potential to deliver significant losses. In this case, holding a put option against the long futures position could cap losses to a manageable amount. The trader's profit potential would be reduced by the premium, or cost, of the option. Consider it to be an insurance policy the trader hopes not to use.



Traders selling futures short without a hedge face even greater risk since the upside potential for most futures markets is theoretically unlimited. In this case, owning a call on the underlying futures contract would limit that risk.



Another alternative to an outright futures position that can sometimes carry less risk is to take a position in a vertical spread trade. This caps both profit potential and risk for loss, and it would be a good choice for a trader that only expects a limited move in the underlying security or commodity.



While all the above limit risk, they also tend to limit or reduce profit. Many speculative traders prefer outright futures positions because of their simplicity (one position) and the ability to generate larger profits when a trade is well-timed and takes advantage of an ensuing price move.


   Outright Futures Position Example  

Assume a trader believes that the S&P 500 is going to rise over the next several months. It is currently July, so the trader buys a December contract of the E-Mini S&P 500 listed on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) under the symbol ES.



The trader uses a limit order to enter a position at $4321, buying one contract. This particular futures contract moves in 0.25 increments, with four increments—called ticks—to each point. Each tick is worth $12.50 in profit or loss, and each point is worth $50 (4 x $12.50).



This position is a pure directional bet on the price of the futures contract rising. The trader is not taking any other positions to offset the risk or magnify the profits associated with the position. Therefore, this is an outright futures position.



Assume that in one month the price of the contract is at $4351. The trader is up 30 points or $1500 ($50 x 30 points), less commissions. Subsequently, the price drops to $4311. The trader is down ten points, or $500 ($50 x 10 points).



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Outright Option?  

An outright option is an option that is bought or sold individually. This option is not part of a spread trade or other types of options strategy where multiple different options are purchased.





Key Takeaways

An outright option is one that is purchased individually and is not part of a multiple-leg options trade.An outright option, which can include calls and puts, can refer to any basic option purchased on a single underlying security.Outright options trade on an exchange similar to security assets, like stocks.


   Understanding the Outright Option  

An outright option, which can include calls and puts, can refer to any basic option purchased on a single underlying security. They are the most basic form of options trading.



Outright options trade on an exchange similar to security assets, like stocks. In the United States, there are numerous exchanges listing all types of outright options for investors. Thus, the options market will see activity from both institutional and retail investors alike.



Institutional investors may use options to hedge the risk exposure in their portfolios. Managed funds may use options as the central focus of their investment objective. Many leveraged bullish and bearish strategies also rely on the use of options.



Retail investors may choose to use options as an advanced strategy or as a cheaper alternative relative to investing directly in the underlying asset. Gaining access to options trading is generally more complex and requires additional brokerage permissions. Most brokerage platforms will require a margin account and a minimum deposit, commonly in excess of $2,000, to trade options.



Both institutional and retail investors using outright options will generally focus on either calls or puts. Calls and puts are typically contracted in 100 share increments. This means one option controls 100 shares of the underlying stock. Option premiums are quoted on a per-share basis; a $0.50 option will cost $50 to buy ($0.50 x 100 shares).



Spreads and exotic options involve more advanced use of option trading instruments and are not considered to be outright options. Spread strategies involve the use of two or more options contracts in a unit trade. Exotic option strategies can be constructed in a multitude of ways. Exotic options can include a contract based on a basket of underlying securities with a variety of different option contract conditions.


   Outright Call and Put Options  

An outright option is either a call or put. The trader either buys or sells one or the other, but not both, as a directional bet on where the underlying asset is going, or to hedge another non-option position. The purchase of an option is also called a "long option," whereas selling one is also called a "short option." Taking on more than one type of option for the same trade doesn't qualify as an outright options trade.



A long call option gives the buyer the right to buy an underlying security at a specified strike price. With an American option, the buyer can exercise the option at any time up until the expiration date. The strike price is the price at which the buyer can take ownership of the underlying, and exercising is taking advantage of that opportunity. In exchange for this right, the option buyer pays a premium to the option seller. The option seller gets to keep the premium but is obliged to sell the underlying security to the call buyer at the strike price if the buyer exercises their option.



Conversely, a long put option gives the buyer the right to sell an underlying security at a specified strike price. In exchange for this right, the put option buyer pays a premium to the option seller. The option seller gets to keep the premium but is obliged to buy the underlying from the put buyer at the strike price if the buyer exercises their option.



Call and put options have an expiry date. American options can be exercised any time up until expiry, while European options can only be exercised at expiration.


   Outright Option Example  

Assume an investor is bullish on Apple Inc. (AAPL) and believes that the stock price will appreciate over the next few months. If the investor wants to buy an outright option, they would purchase a call option. The call option gives the call buyer the right to buy Apple at a specified price.



Assume the stock is currently trading at $183.20 on May 22. The investor believes that by August the stock could be trading north of $195.



Looking at the available call options, the trader has to choose how they want to proceed.















Call Option Chain for Apple Inc. (AAPL).
 Yahoo!Finance



They could buy an option that is already in the money. For example, they could buy the $170 strike price August call for $19.20 (ask price). This would cost the investor $1,920 ($19.20 x 100 shares). If the stock price does reach $195, the option will be worth approximately $25, netting the option buyer a profit of $580 (($25 - $19.20) x 100 shares). They could also exercise their option, receiving the shares at $170 and then selling them for the current market price which in this case is theoretically $195.



The risk is that the trader could lose up to $1,920 if the price of Apple stock falls. The biggest loss would occur if it fell to $170 or below. The trader would lose their full premium. Although, they could sell the option before that happened to recoup some of the option's cost.



Another possibility is to buy a near the money or out of the money call option. These cost less but come with their own drawbacks and opportunities.



Assume the trader buys a $185 strike price option for $9.90 (ask price). This cost them $990.



If the stock is trading near $195 at expiry, the option should be worth about $10. This nets the trader a profit of $10, which (less commissions) means they likely lose a bit of money. Put a different way, the trader could exercise the option and take control of the shares at $185. They could then sell them at $195 on the stock market for a profit of $1000 ($10 x 100 shares), but they paid $990 for the option, so their net profit is $10.



In order to make money on this trade, the price will need to rise above $195 before or at expiry. If it goes to $200, the trader nets a profit of $510. The option will be worth $15 ($200 - $185), but they paid $9.90 for it. That leaves $5.10 in profit per share, or $510 ($5.10 x 100 shares). The price needs to move up more than in the previous example.



Comparing the two scenarios, the first one obviously costs a lot more. The first option will be worth something at expiry unless the stock price falls below $170. That means the trader can likely recoup some of the cost of the option even if the price doesn't rise as expected (or falls).



On the other hand, the second option will continue to lose value, and be worth nothing at expiry if the price of the stock doesn't rise above the $185 strike. Even if the stock does rise above the strike price, the trade may still lose money even if the price reaches its $195 target. The price will need to move above $195 in the order for the trader to make money in the second scenario.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Outside Days?  

Outside days are days where a security’s price is more volatile than the previous day. On an outside day, a security's price will reach a higher high and a lower low than the previous day. Outside days are a two-day price pattern; the difference between the open and close on the second day is larger than the first day when the open and close of the second day are outside the range of the first day.



The term is commonly used among market technicians and swing traders who look at short-term price patterns that play out over several days or weeks. The opposite of an outside day is an inside day.





Key Takeaways

An outside day is a daily price action that has a higher high and a lower low than the prior price bar.An outside day also has an open and close that both fall outside the prior open and close. When the price bars move in opposite directions, it's called an outside reversal.Context is important when trading outside days: This includes volume, overall trend direction, the direction of the price bars within the outside day pattern, and the direction of the price bar following the pattern.


   Understanding Outside Days  

Outside days are a two-bar chart pattern that occurs when the current day’s price bar has a higher high and a lower low than the prior bar, and the open and close of the second day fall outside the open and/or close of the first day. Unlike bullish or bearish engulfing patterns, outside days look at an entire price bar, including both the high and low and the open and close.



An outside day shows that volatility is on the rise. The longer body (the difference between open and close) of the second bar shows greater conviction on the part of the buyers or sellers, and provides clues as to the future direction of the security. If the second price bar heads lower, it shows sellers were in control and the price may continue down. If the second price bar was up, it shows buyers were in control and the price may continue to rise.



Outside days often serve as part of a continuation pattern in the direction of the last few price bars. For example, a bullish outside day occurring during an uptrend is a signal that the uptrend is expected to continue. A bullish outside day is when the price heads higher on the second day, and meets the general criteria of an outside day: higher high, higher low, and longer body.



However, depending on the context, outside days can also act as reversal patterns. An outside reversal is an outside day pattern in the opposite direction of the prior price bar. For example, if the prior price bar was up, an outside reversal would be a down bar with a longer range (both in terms of highs and lows and the open and close).


   Trading Outside Days  

An outside day can manifest in several ways based on whether the first bar is up or down, and whether the second bar is up or down. Here are the combinations:



First bar up, second bar upFirst bar down, second bar upFirst bar up, second bar downFirst bar down, second bar down



While all of these combinations are outside days, when the bars are moving in different directions, those patterns are referred to as outside reversal patterns.



For additional context, traders don't typically look at only the two price bars. They look at the surrounding price action as well.



The price may be rising into the patternThe price may fall and then form the patternThe pattern may also be in a range and then form the pattern



If the pattern is in a range when the outside day forms, it may not be a significant development—unless the outside day occurs when the price is breaking out of the range. An outside day within a range could just mean a continuation of the choppy trading already seen.



In an uptrend, if both bars point up (or just the second bar), it could mean a continuation of the uptrend. If both of the bars, or even only the second one, are pointed down, it could mean the uptrend is stalling and the price may head lower.



In a downtrend, if both bars are pointed down (or just the second one), it could mean a continuation of the downtrend. If both of the bars, or even only the second one, are pointed up, the price may start heading higher.



Instead of guessing what the price will do, traders will often wait until the following day—the third day—to see where the price goes. If the pattern and context suggest a move higher, then if the price starts moving higher on the third day a trader may consider entering a long position. If the pattern and context suggest a move lower, and the price moves lower on the third day, then the trader may consider exiting long positions or entering a short position.



One other thing to consider is volume. An outside day with a larger-than-average volume shows more interest and conviction than a low-volume outside day. Some traders may disregard a low volume outside day and wait for a more compelling trade signal to act on.






Outside days are short-term patterns. They don't indicate how far the price will move after the pattern. Sometimes the pattern may kick off a new large trend, while other times the price may falter soon after the pattern completes.


   Example of an Outside Day  

Outside days are a fairly common pattern. If you are looking at a one-year daily chart, there will typically be many examples of outside days.



Several outside days have been highlighted on the following Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) chart.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



These were not high-volume outside patterns. As you can see, the price continued to drift in the direction of the overall trend. The left-most circled pattern was an outside reversal pattern (although it failed to halt the advance). This is why it is important to wait for confirmation. While the reversal pattern signaled a possible move lower, the price gapped higher the following (third) day (therefore, nullifying the signal).



The patterns were also all fairly small—there were no wide-ranging days. With the price moving higher, and no strong conviction selling days to warn of a reversal, the latter two patterns could have been used as continuation patterns. The price moved higher following the pattern on those two occasions.
What is an Outside Director  

An outside director is a member of a company's board of directors who is not an employee or stakeholder in the company. Outside directors are paid an annual retainer fee in the form of cash, benefits and/or stock options. Corporate governance standards require public companies to have a certain number or percentage of outside directors on their boards.﻿ In theory outside directors are more likely to provide unbiased opinions.



An outside director is also referred to as a "non-executive director."


   BREAKING DOWN Outside Director  

In theory, outside directors are advantageous for the company because they have less conflict of interest and may see the big picture differently than insiders. The downside of outside directors is that since they are less involved with the companies they represent, they may have less information upon which to base decisions and fewer incentives to perform. Also, outside directors can face out-of-pocket liability if a judgment or settlement occurs that is not completely covered by the company or its insurance. This occurred in class-action suits against Enron and WorldCom.﻿﻿﻿



Board members with direct ties to the company are called "inside directors." These can be from the ranks of a company’s senior officers or executives, as well as any person or entity that beneficially owns more than 10% of a company's voting shares.﻿﻿﻿


   Outside Directors and the Example of Enron  

Outside directors have an important responsibility to uphold their positions with integrity and protect and help grow shareholder wealth. In the case of Enron (as mentioned above), many accused the company’s outside directors of being negligent in their oversight of Enron. In 2003, plaintiffs and Congress accused Enron's outside directors of allowing the company’s former CEO Andrew S. Fastow to enter into deals that created a significant conflict of interest with shareholders as he concocted a plan to make the company appear to be on solid financial footing, despite the fact that many of its subsidiaries were losing money.﻿﻿﻿


   Outside Directors and Corporate Governance  

As the Enron example showed, it’s important to set and support clear corporate governance policies to mitigate the risk of such fraud. Corporate governance is a comprehensive system of rules that control and direct a company. These protocol balance the interests of a company's many stakeholders, including shareholders, management, customers, suppliers, financiers, government and the community. They also help a company attain its objectives, offering action plans and internal controls for performance measurement and corporate disclosure.
What Is an Outside Reversal?  

An outside reversal is a price pattern that indicates a potential change in trend on a price chart. The two-day pattern is observed when a security’s high and low prices for the day exceed the high and low of the previous day’s trading session. Outside reversal is also known as either a bullish engulfing (after a downward price move) or a bearish engulfing pattern (after an upward price move) when observed on candlestick charts.





Key Takeaways

Outside reversal is a two-day price pattern that implies a reversal if it runs counter to the existing trend.The first day is typically a small range day and the second is a larger range day.This pattern is known as an engulfing pattern in candlestick studies.


   Understanding an Outside Reversal pattern  

Outside reversal is a two-day price pattern that shows when a candle or bar on a candlestick or bar chart falls “outside” of the previous day’s candle or bar. This chart pattern is commonly employed by technical analysts who seek to identify points in the price action which imply a bullish or bearish reversal of an existing trend.



An outside reversal pattern is typically one of the more precise candlestick patterns; however, these patterns require a strict definition to be useful forecasting tools. Technical analysts and experienced traders prefer to build trading signals using this identification in conjunction with other information such as trend, support and resistance or technical studies.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



On occasion, traders see volume or support and resistance levels as a way to corroborate the outside reversal. For example, a stock price that undergoes a bearish outside reversal when it approaches trend-line resistance on high bearish volume is considerably more reliable than a stock that is moving sideways and has a bearish outside reversal on lower-than-average volume.


   Bullish Outside Reversal  

A bullish outside reversal, also called a bullish engulfing, happens when the second candle is a move higher. For instance, a stock may make a small move lower on the first day, then open even lower than the prior day, but rally sharply higher by the end of the second day. The indication is that bears had control over the market, but then bulls took over and overwhelmed them, signifying a change in the prevailing trend.













In the chart above, Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN​) shares appeared to be consolidating before a bullish outside reversal marked a renewal of the uptrend. Its stock price continued to rise the subsequent days as the trend reversal took hold.


   Bearish Outside Reversal  

A bearish outside reversal, also called a bearish engulfing, transpires when the second candle is a move lower. For instance, a stock may have a small move higher on the first day, climb even higher the second day, but then sharply decline by the second day’s end. This demonstrates that the bulls had control over the market before the bears took the reins in a meaningful way, signaling a shift in the overall trend.













The stock price of Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO​) rose for three consecutive days before a bearish outside reversal. Share prices plunged the day after the outside reversal as the overall trend did an about-face.
What Are Outside Sales?  

Outside sales refer to the sales of products or services by sales personnel that physically go out into the field to meet with prospective customers. Outside sales professionals tend to work autonomously outside of a formal office setting or a formal team environment. They often travel to meet customers face-to-face, as well as to maintain relationships with existing customers.





Key Takeaways

Outside sales consists of sales professionals that are physically active in the field, outside of the office, to bring in business for a company.The professional characteristics of an outside sales force does not include those of a typical office job with specific working hours or an office setting.Outside sales professionals are often on the road, meeting with clients, entertaining potential customers, and constantly available for when a client needs assistance.The costs of an outside sales professional include travel, such as car rentals or plane tickets, accommodation in hotels, and a budget for entertainment expenses.Because of the nature of the job, an outside sales workforce is more costly than an inside sales workforce; however, an outside sales workforce also brings in more business.Given advancements in technology, such as video conferencing, inside sales and outside sales jobs are becoming more of a hybrid nature.


   Understanding Outside Sales  

Outside sales employees, also known as "field sales," tend to work without a formalized schedule, which may offer flexibility but may also mean that a salesperson is always on call to meet the demands of a customer.



This type of work entails maintaining a schedule of client meetings and having to meet and adjust to their demands and changes, such as delays and cancellations. Outside sales professionals also must manage their own travel, which may be subjected to unexpected delays or other issues. In addition, since outside sales professionals must meet face-to-face with potential customers, they have to pay close attention to their appearance and must be prepared to entertain clients and network at all times.



Maintaining an outside sales force can be expensive since companies typically have to compensate outside sales personnel for miles traveled, housing, food, and entertainment. In some industries, outside sales forces are the norm because customers will not move forward with a purchase solely through inside sales strategies.



Though an outside sales workforce tends to cost more than an inside sales workforce, it also tends to out earn an inside sales workforce by 12% to 18%. Outside sales professionals are often compensated via commission on the business that they bring in. As such, the dollar amount of the business they bring in must always be weighed against the dollar cost of the nature of their profession.


   Outside Sales vs. Inside Sales  

When defining outside sales, it is helpful to consider its analog, inside sales. Inside sales professionals tend to work inside an office environment during set hours while utilizing the telephone or a variety of other communications technologies, such as email, video conferencing, social media, or screen shares. They rarely travel to meet clients, if at all. However, given the significant advancement in technology, there is now a trend towards a hybrid inside/outside model of employment, which only requires outside sales when necessary, rather than as an essential function of bringing in business. This is particularly beneficial when a company needs to reduce costs.



Inside sales personnel tend to work within a team, with more direct supervision. They must be comfortable with cold calling to earn new business and conversant enough to be able to explain a product or service inside out with few or no visual aids or prototypes. The widespread adoption of communications technologies has seen inside sales grow by leaps and bounds compared to outside sales. One estimate has it that for every one outside sales professional that is hired, 10 inside sales people are brought onboard.



Outside sales tends to be more strategic in nature, meaning that it can entail meeting with C-level decision-makers to help them devise and implement business strategies. Outside sales is more likely to be utilized when selling more complex and expensive goods and services. The orders placed from the outside sales process also tend to be larger than those made by way of inside sales. Inside sales, in practice, is more of a function of the quantity of interactions over the depth of those interactions.
What Is Outsourcing?  

Outsourcing is the business practice of hiring a party outside a company to perform services or create goods that were traditionally performed in-house by the company's own employees and staff. Outsourcing is a practice usually undertaken by companies as a cost-cutting measure. As such, it can affect a wide range of jobs, ranging from customer support to manufacturing to the back office.



Outsourcing was first recognized as a business strategy in 1989 and became an integral part of business economics throughout the 1990s. The practice of outsourcing is subject to considerable controversy in many countries. Those opposed argue that it has caused the loss of domestic jobs, particularly in the manufacturing sector. Supporters say it creates an incentive for businesses and companies to allocate resources where they are most effective, and that outsourcing helps maintain the nature of free-market economies on a global scale.





Key Takeaways


Companies use outsourcing to cut labor costs, including salaries for their personnel, overhead, equipment, and technology.
Outsourcing is also used by companies to dial down and focus on the core aspects of the business, spinning off the less critical operations to outside organizations.
On the downside, communication between the company and outside providers can be hard, and security threats can amp up when multiple parties can access sensitive data.
Some companies will outsource as a way to move things around on the balance sheet. 
Outsourcing employees, such as with 1099 contract workers, can benefit the company when it comes to paying taxes. 













Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Outsourcing  

Outsourcing can help businesses reduce labor costs significantly. When a company uses outsourcing, it enlists the help of outside organizations not affiliated with the company to complete certain tasks. The outside organizations typically set up different compensation structures with their employees than the outsourcing company, enabling them to complete the work for less money. This ultimately enables the company that chose to outsource to lower its labor costs.



Businesses can also avoid expenses associated with overhead, equipment, and technology.



In addition to cost savings, companies can employ an outsourcing strategy to better focus on the core aspects of the business. Outsourcing non-core activities can improve efficiency and productivity because another entity performs these smaller tasks better than the firm itself. This strategy may also lead to faster turnaround times, increased competitiveness within an industry, and the cutting of overall operational costs.






Companies use outsourcing to cut labor costs and business expenses, but also to enable them to focus on the core aspects of the business.


   Examples of Outsourcing  

Outsourcing's biggest advantages are time and cost savings. A manufacturer of personal computers might buy internal components for its machines from other companies to save on production costs. A law firm might store and back up its files using a cloud-computing service provider, thus giving it access to digital technology without investing large amounts of money to actually own the technology.



A small company may decide to outsource bookkeeping duties to an accounting firm, as doing so may be cheaper than retaining an in-house accountant. Other companies find outsourcing the functions of human resource departments, such as payroll and health insurance, as beneficial. When used properly, outsourcing is an effective strategy to reduce expenses, and can even provide a business with a competitive advantage over rivals.


   Criticism of Outsourcing  

Outsourcing does have disadvantages. Signing contracts with other companies may take time and extra effort from a firm's legal team. Security threats occur if another party has access to a company's confidential information and then that party suffers a data breach. A lack of communication between the company and the outsourced provider may occur, which could delay the completion of projects.


   Special Considerations  

Outsourcing internationally can help companies benefit from the differences in labor and production costs among countries. Price dispersion in another country may entice a business to relocate some or all of its operations to the cheaper country in order to increase profitability and stay competitive within an industry. Many large corporations have eliminated their entire in-house customer service call centers, outsourcing that function to third-party outfits located in lower-cost locations.




What Is Outsourcing?
First seen as a formal business strategy in 1989, outsourcing is the process of hiring third parties to conduct services that were typically performed by the company. Often, outsourcing is used so that a company can focus on its core operations. It is also used to cut costs on labor, among others. While privacy has been a recent area of controversy for outsourcing contractors, it has also drawn criticism for its impact on the labor market in domestic economies.




What Is an Example of Outsourcing?
Consider a bank that outsources its customer service operations. Here, all customer-facing inquiries or complaints with concern to its online banking service would be handled by a third party. While choosing to outsource some business operations is often a complex decision, the bank determined that it would prove to be the most effective allocation of capital, given both consumer demand, the specialty of the third-party, and cost-saving attributes. 




What Are the Disadvantages of Outsourcing?
The disadvantages of outsourcing include communication difficulties, security threats where sensitive data is increasingly at stake, and additional legal duties. On a broader level, outsourcing may have the potential to disrupt a labor force. One example that often comes to mind is the manufacturing industry in America, where now a large extent of production has moved internationally. In turn, higher-skilled manufacturing jobs, such as robotics or precision machines, have emerged at a greater scale.


   The Bottom Line  

While outsourcing can be advantageous to an organization that values time over money, some downsides can materialize if the organization needs to retain control. Outsourcing manufacturing of a simple item like clothing will carry much less risk than outsourcing something complex like rocket fuel or financial modeling. Businesses looking to outsource need to adequately compare the benefits and risks before moving forward.
What Is an Outstanding Check?  

An outstanding check is a check payment that is written by someone but has not been cashed or deposited by the payee. The payor is the entity who writes the check, while the payee is the person or institution to whom it is written. An outstanding check also refers to a check that has been presented to the bank but is still in the bank’s check-clearing cycle.



An outstanding check represents a liability for the payor. The payor must be sure to keep enough money in the account to cover the amount of the outstanding check until it is cashed, which could take weeks or sometimes even months. Checks that are outstanding for a long period of time are known as stale checks.





Key Takeaways


An outstanding check is a financial instrument that has not yet been deposited or cashed by the recipient.
An outstanding check is still a liability for the payor who issued the check.
Checks that remain outstanding for long periods of time run the risk of becoming void.
Be mindful of outstanding checks you've written before spending down your bank account.
Outstanding checks have the added benefit of cash float, meaning the payor holds onto cash for longer or has extra time to save up enough cash to make payment.



   How Outstanding Checks Work  

One of the ways of making payment for a transaction is by check. A check is a financial instrument that authorizes a bank to transfer funds from the payor’s account to the payee’s account. When the payee deposits the check at a bank, it requests the funds from the payor’s bank, which, in turn, withdraws the amount from the payor’s account and transfers it to the payee’s bank. When the bank receives the full amount requested, it deposits it into the payee’s account.



A check becomes outstanding when the payee doesn't cash or deposit the check. This means it doesn't clear the payor's bank account and doesn't appear on the statement at the end of the month. Since the check is outstanding, this means it is still a liability for the payor. Once the payee deposits the check, it is reconciled against the payor's records.



Checks that remain outstanding for long periods of time cannot be cashed as they become void. Some checks become stale if dated after 60 or 90 days, while others become void after six months.


   Risks of Outstanding Checks  

Outstanding checks aren't necessarily inherently bad; however, there are some risks and downsides to have checks linger.



An overdraft occurs when the account holder who wrote a check that is still pending does not have enough money in their account to cover the amount of the check when it is eventually submitted for payment. This can result in the account becoming overdrawn. At the time the check was written, there might have been enough cash; however, if spending on the account occurs between when the check is written and when the check is deposited, the account is at risk for non-sufficient funds status.



Outstanding checks also have the risk of being used in fraudulent conduct. Someone else could be able to change the payee name or the amount if a check is misplaced or stolen before it is taken to the bank. All else being equal, it is safest if a check is deposited as fast as possible to avoid tampering with the instrument.



Accounting inconsistencies may arise if outstanding checks are not reported and tracked in the appropriate manner. Because of this, keeping correct financial records can be difficult, and it may lead to problems during audits or when reconciling finances. For example, payments may show as being paid but if the cash has not yet been debited from the account, there may be inconsistencies worth reconciling.



Last, outstanding checks might have an impact on management of the cash flow. If a corporation has a substantial number of checks that have not yet been cashed, it may create ambiguity over the amount of cash that is available, making it difficult to efficiently plan for and manage expenses.






Outstanding checks that remain so for a long period of time are known as stale checks.


   Benefits of Outstanding Checks  

There are actually some benefits to have checks outstanding as well, though. Writing checks makes it possible for organizations and individuals to make payments without requiring instantaneous cash or electronic transactions to be completed. Checks that linger only buy the company more time to gather up enough resources for payment to clear if more time is needed.



Tracking of payments can be accomplished through the use of checks, which provide both a paper trail and evidence of payment. Through the use of the check, the sender and the recipient of the payment are able to retain a record of the transaction, which includes the date, the amount, and the payee. In this context, an outstanding check need not be outstanding for long; it may simply be the short period of time between when a check is mailed and when it is received.



Outstanding checks also provide the opportunity for payment delays, which can be advantageous when it comes to managing cash flow. The person who writes a check that is not immediately presented for payment is able to maintain control over the timing of the withdrawal of funds from their own account if the check is not immediately offered for payment. Even if the checkwriter has sufficient funds, any delay from the depositor simply means higher interest revenue on the capital balance waiting to be drawn down.


   How to Avoid Outstanding Checks  

Forgotten outstanding checks are a common source of bank overdrafts. One way to avoid this occurrence is to maintain a balanced checkbook. This can help prevent any unnecessary NSFs if the payee decides to cash the check at a later date.



You can also call or write to remind the payee that the check is outstanding. This may encourage them to deposit or cash the check. If they haven't received the payment, this may nudge them to notify you to reissue the check.



With banking activity becoming increasingly electronic, another way to avoid writing a check and forgetting about it is to use the checking account’s online bill pay service. This should provide real-time information about the total dollar amount of checks outstanding and the total dollar balance present in the account.


   Outstanding Business Checks  

When a business writes a check, it deducts the amount from the appropriate general ledger cash account. If the funds have not been withdrawn or cashed by the payee, the company’s bank account will be overstated and have a larger balance than the general ledger entry.



To reconcile the bank statement so the company’s cash account in its financial statements is consistent with the cash in its bank account, the company must adjust its “balance per bank,” which refers to the ending cash balance on a bank statement.


   Communicating Outstanding Checks to Payee  

As businesses have to abide by the unclaimed property laws, any checks that have been outstanding for a long time must be remitted to the state as unclaimed property. As such, there is no incentive to wish for an outstanding check to permanently never be cashed as the payment is subsequently owed to the government for holding.



It is imperative for an issuer to provide payees with timely communication regarding the issuance of a check as well as any pertinent details as soon as possible. This makes it easier to set expectations and gives them the opportunity to plan properly. Be mindful of post office conditions and potential delays for seasonality, weather, or staffing issues.



Make sure that payees have access to the right contact information so that they can get in touch with you or your designated representative regarding any questions, issues, or changes relating to the overdue check. Check to see that the contact information is correct, as checks may go missing simply because of an incorrect mailing address.



Maintain a record of every communication pertaining to outstanding checks, and make sure to document all conversation. This includes communications such as emails, phone calls, and any other forms of correspondence. In many cases, companies send statements for invoices past due; always check these against payments made in the system in case checks have been lost, not applied correctly, or mismanaged.




What Happens If a Check Is Outstanding for Too Long?
If a check remains outstanding for an extended period, it may become stale-dated, and the bank may refuse to honor it. The payee should contact the issuer to request a new check if this occurs.




How Do I Reconcile Outstanding Checks with My Bank Statement?
To reconcile outstanding checks with your bank statement, compare the checks issued but not yet cleared with the information provided on the statement, ensuring that both records align. On your reconciliation sheet, outstanding checks are often subtracted from your balance per bank because these withdrawals have not yet happened but are simply a timing matter.




What Are the Consequences of Bouncing an Outstanding Check?
Bouncing an outstanding check can lead to financial consequences, such as fees imposed by the bank, damage to your credit rating, and potential legal actions from the payee. Be mindful of what outstanding checks you've written before drawing down your bank balance.




What Are Some Best Practices for Managing and Clearing Outstanding Checks?
Best practices for managing and clearing outstanding checks include regular bank statement reconciliation, promptly voiding or canceling unused checks, and maintaining proper record-keeping. Also, always maintain in communication with payees about payments not fully processed.


   The Bottom Line  

Outstanding checks are checks that have been issued but not yet presented for payment or cleared by the bank. They represent pending transactions where the funds have not yet been deducted from the issuer's account. These checks can pose risks such as overdrawing the account, potential fraud, accounting discrepancies, and delayed financial reporting.



Proper management of outstanding checks involves tracking, reconciliation, timely communication, and ensuring sufficient funds are available to honor the checks when presented for payment.
What Is Outward Arbitrage?  

Outward arbitrage is a type of arbitrage that multinational, American-based banks engage in, taking advantage of differences in interest rates between the United States and other countries. Although it is almost always large banks that engage in arbitrage, smaller non-bank depositors and nonbank borrowers also engage in the practice, using much less capital.



Outward arbitrage occurs when interest rates are lower in the United States than abroad, and banks will borrow in the United States at a low rate, and then lend that money abroad at a higher rate, pocketing the difference as profit.





Key Takeaways

Outward arbitrage is a type of arbitrage in which multinational, American-based banks engage to take advantage of interest rate differences between the U.S. and other countries.Outward arbitrage occurs when interest rates are lower in the United States than abroad, so banks borrow in the United States at a low rate, then lend abroad at a higher rate, profiting from the difference.Inward arbitrage is the opposite, and occurs when domestic rates are higher than those abroad.Outward arbitrage was a phrase coined in the middle of the twentieth century, because of strong demand for savings accounts abroad that were denominated in U.S. dollars.Arbitrage occurs when there are minor fluctuations or discrepancies regarding interest rates.


   How Outward Arbitrage Works  

Outward arbitrage is a key concept in modern finance. Modern financial theory is based on the idea that pure arbitrage, a system whereby an investor or company can take advantage of price differentials to make money without fail, doesn’t actually happen for sustained periods.



Academic finance suggests that a true arbitrage opportunity would disappear almost instantly as investors enter that market and compete over these easy profits. But the real world does not always follow economists’ models, and some arbitrage opportunities do occur in the actual markets, as the result of imperfect competition.



For instance, it is not easy for just any bank to scale up to the point that it can take advantage of cross-border differences in interest rates, due to regulation and imperfect markets for financial services. This lack of competition makes it possible for outward arbitrage opportunities to persist for those banks already in the position to leverage significant assets into what they consider to be profitable arbitrage dealings.


   Outward Arbitrage and the Eurodollar Market  

Outward arbitrage was a phrase coined in the middle of the twentieth century, because of the strong demand for savings accounts abroad that were denominated in U.S. dollars. These savings deposits were referred to as eurodollars because all of the foreign, dollar-denominated accounts were at that point housed in Europe.



Today, however, eurodollars can be purchased in many countries around the world outside of Europe. The eurodollar market took off after 1974, when the United States lifted capital controls that hampered lending across borders. Since that time, the eurodollar market has become an important source of funding and profits for U.S. banks.



Due to the lack of requirements for eurodollars, having a large supply can be extremely valuable in the outward arbitrage market, especially when traditionally leveraged assets like CDs experience low liquidity. Banks can also dip into the eurodollar market to borrow funds to engage in outward arbitrage if the reserve requirements or interest rates are more desirable in the eurodollar market when compared to domestic sources of funding.


   An Example of Outward Arbitrage  

Let’s say that a large American bank wants to make money through outward arbitrage. Let’s also assume that the going rate for one-year certificates of deposit in the United States is 2%, while dollar-denominated certificates of deposit are paying 3% in France.



The large American bank could decide to make money by accepting certificates of deposits in the United States, and then taking the proceeds to issue loans in France at a higher rate. Inward arbitrage is possible when the situation is reversed and interest rates are higher in the United States than abroad.


   Outward Arbitrage vs. Inward Arbitrage  

Outward arbitrage differs fundamentally from inward arbitrage. Inward arbitrage can be considered the opposite side of outward arbitrage. When higher rates exist abroad, a bank would engage in outward arbitrage. When the domestic rates are higher, a bank would then borrow the money from the international market, depositing it domestically in order to take advantage of the rate discrepancy.






Banks will engage in both outward and inward arbitrage based on the fiscal environment and ability to profit at incredibly low risk.



Due to the near-zero tolerance for risk when considering inward arbitrage, a certificate of deposit (CD) is usually the preferred method of fund transfer. CDs, despite their low interest rates when compared to other investment vehicles, are some of the safest investments to make. When banks engage in arbitrage, they are doing so with significant amounts of money. Therefore, the appetite for risk is extremely low.




What Is Covered Interest Arbitrage?
Covered interest arbitrage is when someone engaging in arbitrage purchased a forward currency contract in order to hedge risk regarding exchange rate fluctuations. Due to purchasing a forward contract to offset risk, the financial gains of covered interest arbitrage transactions tend to be lower than those of outright arbitrage. This style of trading usually demands a high volume of trades to be markedly profitable.




What Is an Arbitrage Transaction?
An arbitrage transaction is when someone purchases and sells a product simultaneously, usually in separate markets, in order to profit from the price differences in that asset's price. Arbitrage opportunities typically do not last for long once they are discovered due to their fairly risk-averse method of ensuring profit. Arbitrage trades are commonly seen being made with stocks, currencies, and commodities.




How Is Arbitrage Related to Interest Rates?
An arbitrage trade can be directly tied to interest rates. If, for example, Investment A has an interest rate of 3% and Investment B has a rate of 4%, the person engaging in arbitrage would purchase A and sell B, pocketing the 1% difference. Interest rates are in a state of constant flux so traders are always looking for interest rate disparities to take advantage of via arbitrage.




What Is the Risk in Arbitrage Trades?
One of the most significant risks when engaging in arbitrage trades is a fluctuation of the asset price. An interest rate could change and although the percentage change may be minimal, arbitrage trades are usually highly leveraged and exposure to such an event could result in a significant loss. If there are no willing buyers, that is another problem, as someone needs to purchase the asset for sale if the trader is going to make a profit.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Outward Direct Investment (ODI)?  

An outward direct investment (ODI) is a business strategy in which a domestic firm expands its operations to a foreign country.



ODI can take many different forms depending on the company. For example, some companies will make a green field investment, which is when a parent company creates a subsidiary in a foreign country. A merger or acquisition can also occur in a foreign country (and so may be considered an outward direct investment). Finally, a company may decide to expand an existing foreign facility as part of an ODI strategy. Employing ODI is a natural progression for firms if their domestic markets become saturated and better business opportunities are available abroad.



ODI is also called outward foreign direct investment or direct investment abroad. It can be contrasted with foreign direct investment, or FDI, which occurs in the opposite funding direction.





Key Takeaways

An outward direct investment (ODI) is a business strategy in which a domestic firm expands its operations to a foreign country.Employing outward direct investment (ODI) is a natural progression for firms if their domestic markets become saturated and better business opportunities are available abroad.American, European, and Japanese firms have long made extensive investments outside their domestic markets.China has emerged as a large ODI player in recent years.


   Understanding Outward Direct Investment (ODI)  

The extent of a nation's outward direct investment can be seen as an indication that its economy is mature. ODI has been shown to increase a country’s investment competitiveness and has proven to be crucial for long-term, sustainable growth. American, European, and Japanese firms, for example, have long made extensive investments outside their domestic markets.



Because of their more rapid growth rates, emerging market economies often receive large amounts of ODI, as China has for the past two decades. The International Monetary Fund lists the top five countries as the United States, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, China, and the United Kingdom. But even some emerging market countries have begun to make investments abroad.


   ODI and China  

In 2015, Chinese overseas investment exceeded foreign direct investment (FDI) in China for the first time ever. In 2016, China's ODI peaked: Chinese companies invested over $180 billion overseas. Starting in 2017, ODI began a downtrend that has continued. In 2018, China's inflow of foreign direct investment (FDI) exceeded its ODI once again (making the country a net debtor once again). In 2020, China’s ODI increased to nearly $154 billion, from around $137 billion in 2019.



The majority of China's ODI is inflows to leasing and business services, wholesale, retail, and IT. Starting in 2016, Beijing started tightening its capital controls. As a result, many of China's overseas projects have been scaled back. These restrictive measures were intended to curb capital flight—when assets or money rapidly flow out of a country. At the same time, the domestic economic downturn in China, primarily due to the lingering impacts of the trade war with the U.S., has also hindered Chinese ODI.



Because of sluggish domestic growth, investment in foreign assets became less appealing. Previously, foreign investment by Chinese firms has been a significant driver of global asset prices, mostly as a result of the sale of property and mergers and acquisitions.





ODI vs. FDI

It is important to make a distinction between outward direct investment (ODI) and foreign direct investment (FDI). FDI occurs when a non-resident invests in the shares of a resident company. ODI occurs when a resident company invests in a non-resident country as part of a strategy to expand their business.
What Was the Over-55 Home Sale Exemption?  

The over-55 home sale exemption was a tax law that provided homeowners over age 55 with a one-time capital gains exclusion. Individuals who met the requirements could exclude up to $125,000 of capital gains on the sale of their personal residences.



The over-55 home sale exemption has not been in effect since 1997. This exclusion was intended to stimulate the real estate market and reward homeowners for the purchase and subsequent sale of their homes. It was replaced by other exclusions for everyone who profit from selling their principal residences regardless of age.





Key Takeaways

The over-55 home sale exemption was a tax law that provided homeowners over the age of 55 with a one-time capital gains exclusion.The seller, or at least one title holder, had to be 55 or older on the day the home was sold to qualify.Following the passage of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, the exemption was replaced.As of 1997, there are new per-sale exclusion amounts for all homeowners regardless of age.The passage of the 1997 law, allows an excludable gain of $250,000 per taxpayer or $500,000 on a joint return filed by a married couple.


   Understanding the Over-55 Home Sale Exemption  

The over-55 home sale exemption was put into place to give homeowners some relief from the tax implications of selling their homes. The exemption no longer exists as it was replaced by new rules when the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 was ratified into law. This act was one of the largest tax reduction acts to be put into place by the United States government.



Under the old rule, qualifying taxpayers could avoid making tax payments on the sale of their homes provided it was a primary residence. Taxpayers who took the over-55 home sale exemption would complete Form 2119 with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The form was used even if the taxpayer postponed all or part of the gain to another tax year. Taxpayers were required to report losses that resulted from the sale of their home on Form 2119. However, according to the IRS, taxpayers could not deduct the loss from their tax burden.



At the time, home sellers had an alternative to the exemption. To avoid tax payments, sellers could use the proceeds from the sale for the purchase of a more expensive home within a two-year window.


   Qualification of the Over-55 Exemption  

When the exemption was in effect, there were several criteria for homeowners to qualify. The seller, or at least one title holder, had to be 55 or older on the day the home was sold. For married couples, just one spouse was required to meet this term. That spouse also had to be the titleholder on the date of the title transfer for the exemption to be applied. Only one exemption was allowed per married couple, which would preclude one spouse from claiming the exemption for one sale and the other spouse makes a claim for a later sale.



But there was a loophole. If a primary home was co-owned by two or more unmarried people, it was possible for more than one title holder of the appropriate age to qualify for the exemption. For the home to qualify, the titleholder had to own and use the property as a principal residence for at least three out of the five years immediately prior to selling the house. There were personal allowances for time spent away for vacations or medical care.






Prior to 1997, in order to receive the exemption, the seller, or at least one title holder, had to be 55 or older on the sale date to qualify for it.


   Special Considerations  

Following the passing of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, the new home sale tax burden eased for millions of residential taxpayers regardless of their age. The rollovers or once-in-a-lifetime options similar to the over-55 home sale exemption were replaced with new per-sale exclusion amounts.



Homeowners can qualify to exclude all or part of the gains received from the sale of their main residence from their income. The act raised the amount of excludable gain to $250,000 per taxpayer or $500,000 on a joint return filed by a married couple. The law also permitted more than one exclusion per taxpayer per lifetime. The taxpayer, however, can not exclude the gain from another home sale during the two-year period ending on the sale date.



Post-1997, homeowners are required to pass ownership and use tests if they wish to qualify for these exemptions. To satisfy the ownership test, taxpayers must have owned the home for at least two years. The use test, on the other hand, requires sellers to live in the home as their main residence for at least two years. Both tests must be satisfied during the five-year period up to the date of the sale. Homeowners who use their homes for business or rental income may also qualify. They must pass the homeownership and use tests also.


   Example of a Home Owner's Exemption  

For example, if an individual purchased a property in 2000 and lived there until 2001. The owner then rented the property for the following two years. The owner decided to move back once the tenant left and lived there until 2005. The owner then sold the property. In this case, the owner can still qualify for the exemption because the property was used as a primary residence for at least two of the five years leading up to the sale.




Can I File an Over-55 Home Sale Exemption?
Prior to the passage of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, qualifying homeowners age 55 or older weren't required to pay taxes on the sale of their primary home. When the act passed, it stripped the age requirement out of the home sale exemption.




Do Seniors Get Exemptions on the Sale of Their Homes?
Seniors, along with anyone, can receive a tax exemption on the amount of money they earn from selling their home if they meet specific criteria, such as having owned and lived in their home for two years before they sold.




What Is the Taxpayers Relief Act of 1997?
The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 was ratified into law and contained various tax reductions to help stimulate the American economy. Among the items were reduced tax rates and tax credits like the Roth IRA and tax credits for children.
What Is Over and Short?  

Over and short—often called "cash over short"—is an accounting term that signals a discrepancy between a company's reported figures (from its sales records or receipts) and its audited figures. The term also is the name of an account in a company's general ledger—the cash-over-short account.



This term pertains primarily to cash-intensive businesses in the retail and banking sectors, as well as those that need to handle petty cash. If a cashier or bank teller errs by giving too much or too little change, for example, then the business will have a "cash short" or "cash over" position at the end of the day.





Key Takeaways

In accounting, over and short—or "cash over short"—implies a disparity between a firm's reported figures and its audited figures.It's also the name of the account where the firm records these cash discrepancies.Being over and short occurs most often in retail and banking.


   An Example of Over and Short  

Assume that I work as a cashier at a sporting goods shop. I rang up a $95 pair of yoga pants correctly for $95, but I miscounted the cash I received for the pants. The customer unwittingly gave me $96 for the purchase, an error we both failed to catch. The accounting system will show $95 in posted sales but $96 of collected cash. The one-dollar difference goes to the cash-over-short account. The journal entry for this sale would debit cash for $96, credit sales for $95, and credit cash over short for $1.



The opposite is true for transactions that produce cash shortages. Assume the same situation except that I receive $94 instead of $96 for the sale. Now cash is debited for $94, the sales account is credited for $95, and cash over and short is debited for $1.


   What Causes Cash-Over-Short Incidents?  

Internal tampering could cause a business to be over and short in its accounting. Usually, however, the cause results from simple human error. An employee ringing up a sale incorrectly or making another error, like miscounting cash, can generate a disparity between the sales price of the merchandise, the amount collected, and the amount recorded in the accounting system.


   The Function of a Cash-Over-Short Account  

A firm should note instances of cash variances in a single, easily accessible account. This cash-over-short account should be classified as an income-statement account, not an expense account because the recorded errors can increase or decrease a company's profits on its income statement.



A company may use the data in the cash-over-short account to determine why cash levels are in discord and try to reduce the number of cash-over-short occurrences by using better procedures, controls, and employee training. Thus, this account serves primarily as a detective control—an accounting term for a type of internal control that aims to find problems, including any instances of fraud, within a company's processes.
What Is Over-Hedging?  

Over-hedging is a risk management strategy that uses an offsetting position which exceeds the size of the original position being hedged. The result may be a net position in the opposite direction of the initial position.



Over-hedging may be inadvertent or purposeful.





Key Takeaways

Over-hedging occurs when an offsetting position is established that exceeds the original position.Whether intended or not, over-hedging results in a net opposing position to the original one.Like under-hedging, over-hedging is generally an inefficient use of a hedging strategy.


   Understanding Over-Hedging  

When over-hedged, the hedge put on is for a greater amount than the underlying position initially held by the one entering into the hedge. The over-hedged position essentially locks in a price for more goods, commodities, or securities than is required to protect the position. When one is over-hedged, it impacts the ability to profit from the original position.


  Example of Over-Hedging  

Over-hedging in the futures market can be a matter of improperly matching contract size to need. For example, let's say a natural gas firm entered into a January futures contract to sell 25,000 mm British thermal units (mmbtu) at $3.50/mmbtu. However, the firm only has an inventory of 15,000 mmbtu that they're trying to hedge. Due to the size of the futures contract, the firm now has excess futures contracts that amount to 10,000 mmbtu.



That 10,000 mmbtu in over-hedging actually opens up the firm to risk, as it becomes a speculative investment if they don't have the underlying deliverable in hand when the contract comes due. They would have to go out and get it on the open market for a profit or a loss depending on what the price of natural gas does over that time period. 



Any drop in the price of natural gas would be covered by the hedge, protecting the company's inventory price, and the company would get an additional profit by delivering the excess amount at a higher contract price than what it can purchase on the market. An increase in the price of natural gas, however, would see the company make less than market value on its inventory and then have to spend even more to fulfill the excess by buying it at the higher price. 






Over-hedging is often done by mistake; but for many companies, a lack of any hedge is a far bigger risk. 


   Over-Hedging versus No Hedging  

As shown above, over-hedging can actually create additional risk rather than remove it. Over-hedging is essentially the same thing as under-hedging in that both are improper uses of the hedge strategy.



There are, of course, situations where a poorly set-up hedge is better than no hedge at all. In the natural gas scenario above, the company locks in its price for its entire inventory and then speculates on market prices by mistake. In a down market, the over-hedging helps the company, but the important point is that a lack of a hedge would mean a deep loss on the firm's entire inventory.
What Is an Over-Limit Fee?  

An over-limit fee is a penalty charged by credit card companies when cardholders’ purchases exceed their credit limit. Previously, credit card companies would decline the transaction if the consumer made a purchase over their limit; however, credit card companies moved to a practice of allowing the transaction to go through but charging a fee. This practice has stopped since the passing of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (CARD) Act in 2009.





Key Takeaways

An over-limit fee is a penalty charged to credit card customers who breach their credit limits.In the past, companies had discretion as to the size of their over-limit fees but now cannot charge higher than the amount that was exceeded.The passing of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (CARD) Act in 2009 put in laws that protect consumers from unexpected or high fees.Today, customers need to “opt-in” to the ability to exceed their credit limit, in which case they can be charged over-limit fees.﻿﻿Since the passing of the CARD Act, over-limit fees have virtually disappeared.


   How an Over-Limit Fee Works  

Over-limit fees are one of the ways that credit card companies seek to manage their risks. Since credit cards are an unsecured form of debt, credit card companies do not have recourse to any collateral if the cardholder defaults.



For this reason, credit card companies seek to discourage customers from engaging in financially risky behaviors such as spending more than their prescribed credit limit. By charging an over-limit fee in response to such transactions, credit card companies can disincentivize this behavior while also generating additional revenues.



In the past, many credit card companies would automatically enroll customers into programs whereby they could exceed their credit limits and trigger an over-limit fee. However, the passage of the CARD Act in 2009 added new regulations to this process. Today, customers are unable to exceed their credit limits unless they manually opt-in to do so.﻿﻿ 






Paying off your entire credit card balance every month is the most cost-effective strategy that avoids not only over-limit fees but also high-interest rate charges.



In other words, credit card customers can choose to subject themselves to potential over-limit fees in exchange for the right to exceed their credit limits. At the same time, however, the CARD Act also imposed limits on the size of the over-limit fees themselves. Today, credit card companies are restricted from charging fees greater than the amount by which the customer exceeded their credit limit. For example, if a customer exceeds their credit limit by $50, then $50 would be the maximum over-limit fee permitted by law.


   Managing Over-Limit Fees  

When a credit card is issued, it comes with a maximum amount that can be utilized. This threshold is different for every individual and depends primarily on the customer's credit history.



For example, person A with a good credit history applies for a credit card and has a maximum spend limit of $10,000. Person B, on the other hand, with poor credit history, applies for the same credit card and has a maximum spend limit of $2,000. These limits are in place to minimize the risk of the credit card company.



It's important to check your credit card statement often to know where your current balance is and how close you are to your threshold. Over-limit fees are charged whenever the balance goes above the threshold, regardless of if the increased amount was due to a purchase, interest charge, late fee, or any other fee.



It is safer to not opt-in to be able to exceed your credit limit and be charged a fee. This avoids any unwanted costs. If you do not opt-in and exceed your credit limit, then your transaction will be denied. This is a good way to avoid fees and to be made aware that you are at your credit limit.



It's also worth noting that if you do not opt-in and your credit card company allows a transaction to go through, then they cannot charge you an over-limit fee. In this instance, if you notice a fee on your statement, notify your credit card company to remove it.


   How Much Is an Over-Limit Fee?  

As noted by the CARD Act, a credit card company cannot charge you more than the amount you exceeded your limit. Your card company can also not charge you an over-limit fee more than once in one payment cycle. If your balance remains over the limit, then your card company cannot charge you more than twice consecutively.



As of 2021, the first over-limit fee should be no more than $27, and the second fee should be no more than $38 if it occurs within six months of the first. That being said, since the passing of the CARD Act, over-limit fees have virtually disappeared. For example, American Express has not charged an over-limit fee since 2009.



Though over-limit fees have virtually disappeared, there are other penalties that a consumer can incur by constantly exceeding their credit limit. These penalties can include increased interest rates, a reduction in the credit limit, earlier payments, higher minimum payments, and even a cancellation of the card.
What Is an Over-Line?  

In the insurance industry, the term “over-line” refers to the portion of an insurance company’s coverage that exceeds the normal amount of coverage that they provide. Over-line coverage can occur when an insurer underwrites more policies than normal, or when a reinsurer accepts a larger amount of liabilities through a reinsurance contract than is typical for that firm.





Key Takeaways

Over-line coverage refers to the amount of insurance that exceeds an insurer’s normal capacity.It occurs when an insurance company underwrites more policies than normal, including through reinsurance arrangements.Elevated over-line levels can attract scrutiny from state insurance regulators.


   How Over-Lines Work  

Insurance companies make money by collecting premiums in exchange for indemnifying their customers against certain risks. Of course, in order to insure these risks, insurance companies must ensure that they have sufficient financial capacity to do so. The amount of capacity an insurer has depends on its financial strength and excess capital, or funds not currently used to cover policy-related liabilities. An insurer with excess capacity can underwrite new policies, and thus bring in more premiums.



In addition to providing insurance to individual customers, insurance companies also provide insurance to one another through reinsurance contracts. For example, if Insurer A has excess capacity—that is, more money than it needs in order to cover its existing liabilities—it can use that capacity to sell additional insurance coverage, such as by selling reinsurance to Insurer B. At times, this can lead insurers to have covered a larger overall amount than is typical for their operations. This excess level of coverage is referred to as the firm’s “over-line.”



State insurance regulators pay close attention to the amount of liability that insurance companies take on through their underwriting activities. Insurers are required to report their financial position to state regulators, who use these reports to determine whether an insurer is in good financial health or if there is a risk of insolvency. For this reason, companies with significant levels of over-line coverage might attract scrutiny from insurance regulators, who may wonder whether the insurer has assumed responsibility for an unsustainable level of risk.


   Example of an Over-Line  

Emma is the manager of an insurance company. Looking over her company’s financial metrics, she notes that her firm’s financial performance has been unusually strong in the past 12 months, leading to an excess of cash reserves. She estimates that, if the claims on her existing contracts play out in line with projections, she will be left with roughly 20% excess capacity.



To deploy this capital and improve her bottom line, Emma decides to take on reinsurance contracts, accepting the risk held by other insurers in exchange for additional premiums. Although Emma believes that her new contracts are likely to be both profitable and safe, the additional reinsurance contracts raise her firm’s overall coverage level above its historical average. For this reason, it is possible that the new over-line coverage level will attract the attention of the state insurance regulator, requiring Emma to explain the change and demonstrate that the new policies are financially sound.




What Is Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance?
Excess and surplus lines insurance, which is also called surplus lines insurance, or E&S insurance, covers financial risks that are not commonly covered by standard insurance companies. E&S Insurance covers high risk, complicated or unusual risks and falls under the category of property and casualty insurance. This type of insurance can by bought by an individual or by a company.




What Is the Difference Between Allied Lines and All-risk insurance?
Allied lines refers to property-casualty insurance that is closely connected to fire insurance and is often taken out in conjunction with a standard fire insurance policy. It is used to cover damage such as tornado, windstorm, or water damage. All-risk insurance, which is also called open peril, covers a variety of risks that are not explicitly left out of the policy.




What Is Homeowners Insurance?
Homeowners Insurance is a kind of property insurance that that covers damage to a residence, as well as furnishings and other property in the home. It also provides liability coverage in the case of any accidents that occur in the home or on the property.
What Is Over-Selling?  

Over-selling occurs when a salesperson continues their sales pitch after the customer has already decided to make a purchase. This mistake can sometimes annoy the customer and could potentially cause the customer to change their mind, resulting in the deal falling through. Over-selling also means trying to upsell a customer on more than they need or want; this may also have the effect of making the customer unconformable.





Key Takeaways

Over-selling is continuing with a sales attempt after the customer is already willing to purchase, or attempting to sell a customer more than they need or want.Over-selling can hurt the bottom line of a company, ruin the trust between a customer and a salesperson, hurt repeat business, and result in customers walking away from the deal.Over-selling may have a short-term benefit to the salesperson because they get a sale, but it often comes at the expense of repeat business and customer sanctification.


   Understanding Over-Selling  

Over-selling may be an effort to convince a customer that an extra item would enhance what they are looking to buy, or that a more expensive version might be a better option.



Over-selling is most common in retail outlets where associates work on a commission basis or through sales-linked bonuses. The salesperson has an incentive to sell as much as possible, regardless of the customers' needs.



Car dealerships are often accused of over-selling. Their sales associates sometimes fail to recognize that they can generate significantly more revenue through return customers and referrals than they can by misleading customers into paying for extras that they neither need nor want. Some associates at car dealerships are willing to sacrifice long-term brand equity for short-term sales by selling customers on anything and everything. 


   Disadvantages of Over-Selling  

Although it may be done with good intentions, over-selling usually does more harm than good. Great salespeople know when the customer is ready to buy and, thus, when they should close the sale.



Over-selling can have a negative impact on a company’s bottom line. This is because it can raise doubts in the mind of a buyer, often at the precise moment when the customer is looking for a reason to believe that they are making the right choice. Raising this doubt in the customer's mind, because they no longer trust the salesperson, could blow the sale.



Over-selling gives a buyer a reason to pause and ask themselves if they are paying too much, or if the item is more than what they need. Even if the buyer doesn't backpedal in an over-sell situation, the salesperson risks creating false expectations that can never be met, in which case they could be damaging their credibility as a trusted salesperson.



There are reasons to believe that the pitfalls associated with over-selling have become worse over time. This is because buyers are becoming increasingly more informed and better educated; with virtually unlimited access to information and alternatives on the Internet, buyers have likely done their share of research beforehand and may have even made up their mind before ever speaking with a sales professional.



This access to information has changed the sales dynamic; sales representatives are no longer a consumer’s only source of information. Often, salespeople would benefit from a soft-sell approach, or through presenting various options to customers. Need-based selling, or adaptive selling, is usually a preferable alternative to over-selling.


   Example of Over-Selling  

Suppose there is a college student without a lot of money. They need a used, cheap, and reliable car for getting to and from a part-time job. They only have $1,500 to spend on the car and they tell the salesperson this upfront.



Immediately the salesperson starts showing them cars priced at $5,000 to $10,000, telling the student they can get "...easy financing to afford these much better cars." The student, who already has a bunch of student loans doesn't like the idea of taking on more debt. They relay this information to the salesperson, who continues to talk about how the low the interest rate is, and how filling out the forms will only take a few minutes.



The student, uncomfortable with the overselling, leaves and goes to another dealership or to another salesperson who will show them what they are asking for.
What Is Over-the-Counter (OTC)?  

Over-the-counter (OTC) is the process of trading securities via a broker-dealer network as opposed to on a centralized exchange like the New York Stock Exchange.



Over-the-counter trading can involve stocks, bonds, and derivatives, which are financial contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset such as a commodity.



When companies do not meet the requirements to list on a standard market exchange such as the NYSE, their securities can be traded OTC but may still be subject to some regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.





Key Takeaways

Over-the-counter (OTC) securities are traded without being listed on an exchange.Securities that are traded over-the-counter may be facilitated by a dealer or broker specializing in OTC markets.OTC trading helps promote equity and financial instruments that would otherwise be unavailable to investors.Companies with OTC shares may raise capital through the sale of stock.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Over-the-Counter (OTC)  

Stocks that trade via OTC are commonly smaller companies that cannot meet the exchange listing requirements of formal exchanges. Many other types of securities also trade OTC.



Stocks that trade on exchanges are called listed stocks, whereas stocks that trade via OTC are called unlisted stocks.



Trade transactions can take place through OTC Markets Group's electronic matching platforms: the OTCQX; OTCQB; and the Pink Open Market, also known as OTC Pink or "Pink Sheets".






FINRA ran an OTC exchange known as the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB), but FINRA officially ceased operations of the OTCBB on Nov. 8, 2021.


   Types of OTC Securities  
  Stocks  

The equities that trade via OTC are often small companies prohibited by the $295,000 cost to list on the NYSE and up to $75,000 on Nasdaq. Some well-known large companies are listed on the OTC markets, such as Allianz SE, BASF SE, Roche Holding Ag, and Danone SA.


  Bonds  

Bonds do not trade on a formal exchange but banks market them through broker-dealer networks and they are also considered OTC securities.


  Derivatives  

Derivatives are private contracts arranged by a broker and can be exotic options, forwards, futures, or other agreements whose value is based on that of an underlying asset, like a stock.


  ADRs  

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), sometimes called ADSs or bank certificates that represent a specified number of shares of a foreign stock. 


  Foreign Currency  

Foreign currencies that trade on the Forex, an over-the-counter currency exchange.


  Cryptocurrency  

Cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin and Ethereum trade on the OTC market. 






   OTC Markets  

The OTC Markets Group operates some of the most well-known networks, such as the Best Market (OTCQX), the Venture Market (OTCQB), and the Pink Open Market. Although OTC networks are not formal exchanges such as the NYSE, they still have eligibility requirements determined by the SEC.


  OTCQX  

The OTCQX does not list the stocks that sell for less than five dollars, known as penny stocks, shell companies, or companies going through bankruptcy. The OTCQX includes only 4% of all OTC stocks traded and requires the highest reporting standards and strictest oversight by the SEC.



It includes foreign companies that list on foreign exchanges and some U.S. companies that plan to list on the NYSE or the Nasdaq in the future.


  OTCQB  

The OTCQB is often called the "venture market" with a concentration of developing companies that have to report their financials to the SEC and submit to some oversight.


  Pink Sheets  

OTC Pink Sheets is the riskiest level of OTC trading with no requirements to report financials or register with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some legitimate companies exist on the Pink Sheets, however, there are many shell companies and companies with no actual business operations listed here.






Although Nasdaq operates as a dealer network, Nasdaq stocks are generally not classified as OTC because Nasdaq is considered a stock exchange. 


   Pros and Cons of the OTC Market  

Bonds, ADRs, and derivatives trade in the OTC marketplace, however, investors face greater risk when investing in more speculative OTC securities. The filing requirements between listing platforms vary and business financials may be hard to locate. Most financial advisors consider trading in OTC shares as a speculative undertaking.



Stocks trading OTC are not, generally, known for their large volume of trades. Lower share volume means there may not be a ready buyer when it comes time to trade shares. Also, the spread between the bid price and the asking price is usually larger as these stocks may make volatile moves on any market or economic data.



The OTC marketplace is an alternative for small companies or those who do not want to list or cannot list on the standard exchanges. Listing on a standard exchange is an expensive and time-consuming process and outside the financial capabilities of many smaller companies. Companies may also find that listing in the OTC market provides quick access to capital through the sale of shares. 





Pros

OTC provides access to securities not available on standard exchanges such as bonds, ADRs, and derivatives.
Fewer regulations on the OTC allows the entry of many companies who can not, or choose not to, list on other exchanges.
Through the trade of low-cost, penny stock, speculative investors can earn significant returns.



Cons

OTC stocks have less trade liquidity due to low volume which leads to delays in finalizing the trade and wide bid-ask spreads.
Less regulation leads to less available public information, the chance of outdated information, and the possibility of fraud.
OTC stocks are prone to make volatile moves on the release of market and economic data.







Is the OTC Market Safe?
The OTC market is generally considered risky, with lenient reporting requirements and lower transparency associated with these securities. Many stocks that trade OTC have a lower share price and may be highly volatile. While some stocks in the OTC market are eventually listed on the major exchanges, other OTC stocks fail. As with any investment, it is important to research the stocks and companies as much as thoroughly as possible.




What Is an Example of an Over-the-Counter Market?
An over-the-counter market is a market where financial securities are traded through a broker-dealer network as opposed to on a financial exchange. An over-the-counter market is not centralized and occurs between two parties, such as a trade that occurs between two individuals that buy and sell a share of a company that is not listed on an exchange. An over-the-counter market can consist of any security, such as equities, commodities, and derivatives.




How Do an Investor Buy a Security on the OTC Market?
To buy a security on the OTC market, identify the specific security to purchase and the amount to invest. OTCQX is one of the largest and most well-respected marketplaces for OTC stocks. Most of the brokers that sell exchange-listed securities also sell OTC securities and this can be done electronically on a broker's platform or via a telephone.




What Is an Over-the-Counter Derivative?
An over-the-counter derivative is any derivative security that is traded in the OTC marketplace. A derivative is financial security whose value is determined by an underlying asset, such as a stock or a commodity. An owner of a derivative does not own the underlying asset but in the case of certain derivatives, such as commodity futures, it is possible to take delivery of the physical asset after the derivative contract expires. In addition to futures, other derivatives include forwards and swaps.




What is Otcmkts?
Otcmkts, or OTC markets (over-the-counter markets), are markets where securities trade that are not listed on major exchanges in the U.S. OTC securities trade instead through a broker-dealer network often because they do not meet the requirements of the major exchanges.


   The Bottom Line  

Over-the-counter (OTC) is trading securities via a broker-dealer network as opposed to on a centralized exchange like the New York Stock Exchange. Although OTC networks are not formal exchanges, they still have eligibility requirements determined by the SEC. An investor can trade stocks, bonds, derivatives, and foreign exchange currency on the OTC marketplace.
What Was the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB)?  

The over-the-counter bulletin board (OTCBB) was an electronic quotation service provided by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) to its subscribing members for over-the-counter (OTC) trade data for U.S. stocks. Unlike other OTC platforms, OTCBB was a quotation-only service. In 2020, FINRA announced it was winding down the OTCBB, as the bulk of OTC stock trading occurred on OTC Markets Group's platforms. FINRA officially ceased operations of the OTCBB on Nov. 8, 2021.





Key Takeaways

The over-the-counter bulletin board (OTCBB) was a regulated quotation service for over-the-counter (OTC) securities provided by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).It offered up-to-the-minute quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information.All companies listed on the platform had to file current financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or another relevant federal regulator.Only a select few OTCBB stocks successfully moved from the OTC market to a major exchange.In 2020, FINRA decided to wind down the OTCBB services, as the platforms provided by OTC Markets Group had taken the lion's share of U.S. OTC stock trading and data.


   Understanding the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB)  

The OTCBB offered traders and investors up-to-the-minute quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information for equity securities traded OTC. All companies listed on this platform had to file current financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or another relevant federal regulator.



The OTCBB was created in 1990 after the Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 stipulated that the SEC must develop some type of electronic quotation system for stocks that could not be listed on one of the major exchanges. Stocks that traded OTC were traded between individuals and market makers using computers and telephones.



OTC stocks on the OTCBB were not part of any major exchanges. This was primarily because OTC stocks tend to be small and volatile, which made meeting listing requirements difficult.



More importantly from the trading standpoint, the bid-ask spread is typically larger for these stocks as they typically trade with less frequency than exchange-listed stocks. Only a select few OTCBB stocks successfully moved from the OTC market to a major exchange.






The pink sheets are a privately held company, while FINRA provided the OTCBB service.


   Special Considerations  

For those small companies that could not meet the listing requirements to trade their securities on national exchanges, the OTCBB, and nowadays the current offerings of OTC Markets Group, offered an important alternative.



Small companies need financing from investors to grow, even though their total market value might never rival a mid-cap stock. Investors, in turn, are attracted to the outsized returns that can still occur on the OTC market as some of these firms do find ongoing success and outsized profits.



While these companies use the OTC markets in place of one of the major exchanges, investors need to remember that the OTCBB and OTC Markets Group are not, in fact, actual exchanges but quotation services. All securities traded OTC are, in reality, traded by a web of market makers who input different quotes and trades through a secure computer network that can only be accessed by those who subscribe.


   Phasing Out the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB)  

As mentioned above, pretty much all OTC stock quotes and trades are now conducted on OTC Markets Group's platforms, including OTCQX, OTCQB, and the Pink Open Market.



FINRA filed a rule change in 2020 with the SEC that outlined its proposal to cease the operations of the OTCBB, which became effective Nov. 8, 2021. The OTCQB, in particular, effectively replaced the OTCBB as the main market for trading OTC securities that report to a U.S. regulator. As it has no minimum financial standards, the OTCQB often includes shell companies, penny stocks, and small foreign issuers.


   OTCBB vs. Pink Sheets  

The OTCBB and pink sheets are both quotation services for stocks that trade OTC. The OTCBB was operated by FINRA, while the pink sheets are operated by a private company. The listing standards are generally laxer for the pink sheets. That is, some pink sheet stocks might not have been eligible for listing on the OTCBB. 



Stocks listed on the OTCBB were usually registered with the SEC (except for those not legally required to do so). Meanwhile, stocks on the pink sheets might not file regular reports and might not list with the SEC. Beyond the OTCBB and pink sheets, there are other quotation services. It’s also possible to buy stocks not listed on either directly from a broker.






The lack of filing requirements for pink sheets stocks make them inherently riskier.




How Did You Trade in OTCBB Penny Stocks?
Penny stocks didn't trade on the OTCBB. Penny stocks trade for less than $1 per share but they trade through a brokerage. The OTCBB helped track prices for penny stocks but did not facilitate penny stock trading.




Which App Allowed You to Trade on the OTCBB?
No app allowed you to trade on the OTCBB. The OTCBB was a price-quoting service. Investors traded stocks via brokerage apps that had their prices quoted on the OTCBB.




Were OTC Stocks Publicly Traded?
OTC stocks were traded without a broker or central exchange as they were generally too small to be listed on a formal exchange. Some OTC stocks were considered publicly traded, though some companies on the OTC market were private companies.




What Was Listed on the OTCBB?
Securities that were listed on the OTCBB included those that traded on the OTC market, such as stocks, warrants, units, and ADRs.




Is It Safe to Buy OTC Stocks?
There are two key risks to trading OTC stocks: the first is the poor liquidity, as they are thinly traded; and the second is the lack of reliable information available about the company.




Can I Buy OTC Stocks on RobinHood?
OTC stocks are not available on RobinHood, although the trading app does allow the trading of certain penny stocks.



Correction—Nov. 26, 2021: A previous version of this article misstated the company name for OTC Markets Group.
What Is the Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI)?  

The Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI) is an electronic stock exchange based in India that consists of small- and medium-sized firms aiming to gain access to overseas capital markets, including electronic exchanges in the U.S. such as the NASDAQ. There is no central place of exchange, and all trading occurs through electronic networks.





Key Takeaways

The Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI) is an Indian electronic stock exchange composed of small- and mid-cap companies.The purpose of the OTCEI is for smaller companies to raise capital, which they cannot do at the national exchanges due to their inability to meet the exchange requirements.The OTCEI implements specific capitalization rules that make it suited for small- to medium-sized companies while preventing larger companies from being listed.The key players in the OTCEI include brokers, market makers, custodians, and transfer agents.


   Understanding the Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI)  

The OTCEI is based in Mumbai, India, and operates solely over a computer network. The exchange is recognized by India's Securities Contract Regulation Act, meaning all listed stocks on the OTCEI benefit equally as other listed securities on other exchanges in India.



The exchange was established in 1990 to provide investors and companies with an additional way to trade and issue securities. It arose primarily from small companies in India finding it difficult to raise capital through mainstream national stock exchanges because they could not fulfill the stringent requirements to be listed on them.



The OTCEI has rules that are not as rigid as the national exchanges, allowing small companies to gain access to the capital they need to grow. The objective is that once they grow to a certain level and are able to meet the requirements to be listed on the national stock exchanges, they will make the switch over and leave the OTCEI behind.



Thanks to advances in technology that have yielded improvements in electronic trading platforms, the differences between traditional exchanges and over-the-counter (OTC) networks are no longer vast, greatly benefiting the small- and medium-sized companies.


   Features of the Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI)  

The OTCEI has some special features that make it a unique exchange in India as well as a growth catalyst for small- to medium-sized companies. The following are some of its unique features:



Stock Restrictions: Stocks that are listed on other exchanges will not be listed on the OTCEI and, conversely, stocks listed on the OTCEI will not be listed on other exchanges.
Minimum Capital Requirements: The requirement for the minimum issued equity capital is 30 lakh rupees, which is approximately $40,000.
Large Company Restrictions: Companies with issued equity capital of more than 25 crore rupees ($3.3 million) are not allowed to be listed.
Member Base Capital Requirement: Members must maintain a base capital of 4 lakh rupees ($5,277) to continue to be listed on the exchange.


   Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI) Listing Requirements  

The OTCEI makes it easier for small- to mid-cap sized companies to be listed, although there are still some requirements that companies must meet before being allowed to be listed.



Stipulations include acquiring sponsorship from members of the OTCEI and having two market makers. In addition, once a company is listed, it cannot be delisted for at least three years, and a certain percentage of issued equity capital needs to be kept by promoters for a minimum of three years. This percentage is 20%.


   Over-The-Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI) Transactions  

The transactions on the OTCEI revolve around the dealers. Dealers operate in a few capacities, the two most important being as a broker and as a market maker. As a broker, the dealer transacts on behalf of buyers and sellers. As a market maker, the dealer has to ensure the availability of the shares for transaction purposes as well as to ensure that the price remains reasonable through supply and demand levels.



In addition to the dealers, the OTCEI also has custodians. The custodian, or settler, is the individual that performs the multitude of administrative tasks necessary for the proper functioning of the OTCEI. These tasks include validating and storing documents as well as facilitating daily clearing transactions.



Finally, the last group of players consists of the registrars and transfer agents, who are responsible for making sure the correct transfer and allotment of shares take place.
What Is an Over-the-Counter Market?  

An over-the-counter (OTC) market is a decentralized market in which market participants trade stocks, commodities, currencies, or other instruments directly between two parties and without a central exchange or broker. Over-the-counter markets do not have physical locations; instead, trading is conducted electronically. This is very different from an auction market system.



In an OTC market, dealers act as market-makers by quoting prices at which they will buy and sell a security, currency, or other financial products. A trade can be executed between two participants in an OTC market without others being aware of the price at which the transaction was completed. In general, OTC markets are typically less transparent than exchanges and are also subject to fewer regulations. Because of this, liquidity in the OTC market may come at a premium.





Key Takeaways

Over-the-counter markets are those in which participants trade directly between two parties, without the use of a central exchange or other third party.OTC markets do not have physical locations or market-makers.Some of the products most commonly traded over-the-counter include bonds, derivatives, structured products, and currencies.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Over-the-Counter Markets  

OTC markets are primarily used to trade bonds, currencies, derivatives, and structured products. They can also be used to trade equities, with examples such as the OTCQX, OTCQB, and OTC Pink marketplaces (previously the OTC Bulletin Board and Pink Sheets) in the U.S. Broker-dealers that operate in the U.S. OTC markets are regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).






   Limited Liquidity  

Sometimes the securities being traded over-the-counter lack buyers and sellers. As a result, the value of a security may vary widely depending on which market markers trade the stock. Additionally, it makes it potentially dangerous if a buyer acquires a significant position in a stock that trades over-the-counter should they decide to sell it at some point in the future. The lack of liquidity could make it difficult to sell in the future. 


   Risks of Over-the-Counter Markets  

While OTC markets function well during normal times, there is an additional risk, called a counter-party risk, that one party in the transaction will default prior to the completion of the trade or will not make the current and future payments required of them by the contract. Lack of transparency can also cause a vicious cycle to develop during times of financial stress, as was the case during the 2007–08 global credit crisis.



Mortgage-backed securities and other derivatives such as CDOs and CMOs, which were traded solely in the OTC markets, could not be priced reliably as liquidity totally dried up in the absence of buyers. This resulted in an increasing number of dealers withdrawing from their market-making functions, exacerbating the liquidity problem and causing a worldwide credit crunch. Among the regulatory initiatives undertaken in the aftermath of the crisis to resolve this issue was the use of clearinghouses for post-trade processing of OTC trades.


   A Real-World Example  

A portfolio manager owns about 100,000 shares of a stock that trades on the over-the-counter market. The PM decides it is time to sell the security and instructs the traders to find the market for the stock. After calling three market makers, the traders come back with bad news. The stock has not traded for 30 days, and the last sale was $15.75, and the current market is $9 bid and $27 offered, with only 1,500 shares to buy and 7,500 for sale. At this point, the PM needs to decide if they want to try to sell the stock and find a buyer at lower prices or place a limit order at the stock’s last sale with the hope of getting lucky.

What is the Overall Liquidity Ratio?  

The overall liquidity ratio is the measurement of a company's capacity to pay its outstanding liabilities with its assets on hand. The overall liquidity ratio is calculated by dividing total assets by the difference between its total liabilities and conditional reserves. This ratio is used in the insurance industry, as well as in the analysis of financial institutions.





Key Takeaways

The overall liquidity ratio is used in the insurance industry to determine whether an insurer is financially healthy and solvent enough to cover its liabilities.It may also be used in the context of financial institutions, such as banks.The formula to calculate the overall liquidity ratio is: [Total Assets / (Total Liabilities – Conditional Reserves)].A low overall liquidity ratio could indicate that the financial institution or insurance company is in financial trouble.The overall liquidity ratio can be contrasted with the current ratio and quick ratio, which both focus more on current obligations due within the upcoming 12 months.


   How the Overall Liquidity Ratio is Used  

Regulators use financial metrics, like the overall liquidity ratio, to determine whether an insurer, bank, or other company is financially healthy and solvent enough to cover its liabilities. Financial and insurance companies use the cash that their activities generate to obtain a return. A bank, for example, may use funds received from customer deposits to provide mortgages and other loans. The balance of customer deposits that are left over may be kept as cash, or may be invested in liquid assets.



Insurance companies receive money in the form of premium payments by policyholders, and they in turn are liable for the coverage benefits they guarantee by underwriting policies. Depending on the duration of the policy, the liability can last anywhere from a few months to a few years. Liabilities that come due within the following twelve month period are considered to be current liabilities.



The amount of money that a financial institution or insurer has to keep readily available to cover its liabilities is determined by regulators. Regulators examine liquidity ratios to determine whether the company is complying with its legal requirements. The formula to calculate the overall liquidity ratio is: [Total Assets / (Total Liabilities – Conditional Reserves)]. In this calculation, conditional reserves refer to rainy-day funds held by insurance companies to help cover unanticipated expenses during times of financial stress.


   Understanding the Overall Liquidity Ratio  

A low overall liquidity ratio could indicate that the financial institution or insurance company is in financial trouble, whether from poor operational management, poor risk management, or poor investment management. In order to comply with legal requirements and guarantee sufficient funds to cover its liabilities, most lenders and insurers try to improve their overall liquidity ratio.



However, a high overall liquidity ratio isn’t necessarily good either, especially if current assets represent a high percentage of the company's total assets. A large proportion of current assets means that the company may not be investing sufficiently to earn a high return on assets, but it may instead be focusing solely on liquidity.


   Overall Liquidity Ratio vs. Quick Ratio vs. Current Ratio  

Other liquidity metrics include the quick ratio and current ratio. The quick ratio compares a company's assets that are readily available for use, including cash, short-term investments, government bonds, and unaffiliated investments, to its current obligations (short-term liabilities due within the upcoming 12 month period). The current ratio compares a company's total current assets to its current obligations. The quick ratio is more conservative than the current ratio because it doesn't take into account current assets such as inventory, which are harder to quickly turn into usable cash.
What Is Overall Turnover?  

Overall turnover is a synonym for a company’s total revenues. It is a term that is most commonly used in Europe and Asia. For example, a European or Asian company's press release that announces overall turnover increased 20% last year simply means that gross revenues or total sales increased by that percentage.





Key Takeaways

Overall turnover is equivalent to a firm's total revenues over some period of time.The term is most commonly used in Europe and Asia, while the use of the terms revenues or sales is more common in the United States.Turnover ratios are used by financial analysts to understand a company's efficiency and profitability based on data found in financial statements.


   How Overall Turnover Works  

In the United States, companies use revenue or sales to describe turnover. If the overall inventory turnover for an American manufacturing company is 10, it means that the company as a whole generated $10 in revenues for every $1 of assets.



Overall turnover, in the North American context, may also refer to certain metrics, such as labor turnover or asset turnover for an organization as a whole, as opposed to measuring them for a specific division or business unit.


  Turnover Ratios  

In addition to tracking trends in the level and evolution of a company’s overall turnover, analysts, bankers and investors also use net turnover (overall turnover minus the costs of sales—e.g., tax, discounts, and other costs) figures in a number of financial ratio calculations to assess a company’s health, efficiency in using assets and generating profits, and compare its performance relative to peers.



The usefulness of certain ratios varies by industry, but some of the key ratios include asset and receivables turnover ratios and cash turnover ratios. The asset turnover ratio divides a company’s net turnover by its average level of assets during the year. This is a profitability ratio that measures the company’s ability to use its assets to generate sales.



Receivables turnover is calculated by dividing net turnover by the company’s average level of accounts receivables. This measures how quickly a company collects payments from its customers. Cash turnover ratio compares a compares turnover to its working capital (current assets minus current liabilities) to gauge how well a company can finance its current operations.


   Turnover and Financial Reporting  

How companies report their turnover figures and how reliable they are to investors and analysts is regularly debated. Most of the concerns relate to when and how revenue is recognized and reported.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and its European counterpart the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued new revenue recognition standards for addressing how companies account for revenue/turnover from contracts. The changes are designed to make it easier to compare revenue figures reported on financial statements across companies. The standard took effect in 2018.
What Is an Overallotment?  

An overallotment is an option commonly available to underwriters that allows the sale of additional shares that a company plans to issue in an initial public offering or secondary/follow-on offering. An overallotment option allows underwriters to issue as many as 15% more shares than originally planned. The option can be exercised within 30 days of the offering, and it does not have to be exercised on the same day.



It is also called a "greenshoe option."


   Overallotment Explained  

The underwriters of such an offering may elect to exercise the overallotment option when demand for shares is high and shares are trading above the offering price. This scenario allows the issuing company to raise additional capital.



Other times, the purpose of issuing extra shares is to stabilize the price of the stock and prevent it from going below the offering price. If the stock price drops below the offering price, the underwriters can buy back some of the shares for less than they were sold for, decreasing the supply and hopefully increasing the price. If the stock rises above the offering price, the overallotment agreement allows the underwriters to buy back the excess shares at the offering price, so that they don't lose money.


   Example of an Overallotment  

In March 2017, Snap Inc. offered 200 million shares at $17.00 per share in a much-anticipated IPO. Shortly after placing the original 200 million shares, the underwriters exercised their overallotment option to push another 30 million shares in the market.﻿﻿
What is Overbought?  

Overbought is a term used when a security is believed to be trading at a level above its intrinsic or fair value. Overbought generally describes recent or short-term movement in the price of the security, and reflects an expectation that the market will correct the price in the near future. This belief is often the result of technical analysis of the security’s price history, but fundamentals may also be employed. A stock that is overbought may be a good candidate for sale.



The opposite of overbought is oversold, where a security is thought to be trading below its intrinsic value.





Key Takeaways

Overbought refers to a security with a price that's higher than its intrinsic value.Many investors use price-earnings (P/E) ratios to determine if a stock is overbought, while traders use technical indicators, like the relative strength index (RSI).Fundamental analysis can also be used to compare an asset's market price to its predicted value based on financial statements or other underlying factors.Ultimately, overbought is a subjective term. Since traders and analysts all use different tools, some may see an overbought asset while others see an asset that has further to rise.


   Overbought Explained  

Overbought refers to a security which has been subject to a persistent upward pressure and that technical analysis suggests is due for a correction. The bullish trend may be due to positive news regarding the underlying company, industry or market in general. Buying pressure can feed on itself and lead to continued bullishness beyond what many traders consider reasonable. When this is the case, traders refer to the asset as overbought and many will bet on a reversal in price.


  Fundamentally Overbought  

Traditionally, the standard indicator of a stock’s value has been the price-earnings ratio (P/E). Analysts and companies have used either publicly reported results or earnings estimates to identify the appropriate price for a particular stock. If a stock’s P/E rises above that of its sector or a relevant index, investors may see it as overvalued and pass on buying for the time being. This is a form of fundamental analysis, which uses macroeconomic and industry factors to determine a reasonable price for a stock.


  Technically Overbought  

The rise of technical analysis has allowed traders to focus on indicators of a stock to forecast price. These indicators measure the recent price, volume, and momentum. Traders use technical tools to identify stocks that have become overvalued in recent trading and refer to these equities as overbought.



Some traders use pricing channels like Bollinger Bands to spot overbought areas. On a chart, Bollinger Bands are positioned at a multiple of a stock's standard deviation above and below an exponential moving average. When the price reaches the upper band, it may be overbought.


   How to Identify Overbought Stocks with RSI  

Technical analysis has provided traders with increasingly sophisticated calculations to identify overbought stocks. George Lane’s stochastic oscillator, which he developed in the 1950s, examines recent price movements to identify imminent changes in a stock’s momentum and pricing trend. This oscillator laid the foundation for the technical indicator which has become the primary indicator of an overbought stock, the relative strength index (RSI). The RSI measures the power behind price movements over a recent period, typically 14 days, using the following formula:



﻿




RSI


=


1


0


0


−


1


0


0


/



(


1


+


RS


)




\text{RSI}=100-100/\left(1+\text{RS}\right)


RSI=100−100/(1+RS)﻿



RS represents the ratio of average upward movement to downward movement over a specified period of time. A high RSI, generally above 70, signals traders that a stock may be overbought and that the market should correct with downward pressure in the near term. Many traders use pricing channels like Bollinger Bands to confirm the signal that the RSI generates. On a chart, Bollinger Bands lie one standard deviation above and below the exponential moving average of a stock’s recent price. Analysts that identify a stock with a high RSI and a price that is edging toward the high end of its upper Bollinger Band will likely consider it to be overbought.


   Example of Overbought Conditions Using RSI  

Here's an example of a chart with a high RSI reading that suggests overbought conditions:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In the above chart, the oversold RSI conditions (below 30) predicted a rebound in the stock price in October. The overbought RSI conditions (above 70) in February could indicate that the stock will consolidate or move lower in the near-term.
What Is Overcapitalization?  

The term overcapitalization refers to a situation wherein the value of a company's capital is worth more than its total assets. Put simply, there is more debt and equity compared to the value of its assets. When a company is overcapitalized, its market value is less than its total capitalized value or its current value. An overcapitalized company may end up paying more in interest and dividend payments than it can sustain in the long term. Being overcapitalized means that a company's capital management strategies are running inefficiently, placing it in a poor financial position.





Key Takeaways:

Overcapitalization occurs when a company has more debt than its assets are worth.A company that is overcapitalized may have to pay high interest and dividend payments that will eat up its profits, which isn't sustainable over the long haul.Companies end up becoming overcapitalized for any number of reasons including poor management and higher startup costs.Alleviating overcapitalization can come through the repayment or restructuring of debt, or even bankruptcy.Overcapitalization is the opposite of undercapitalization, which occurs when a company doesn't have enough cash flow or credit to continue its operations


   Understanding Overcapitalization  

Capitalization is a term used in corporate finance to describe the total amount of debt and equity held by a company. As such, it defines the total amount of money that is invested in the company itself. This includes both stocks and bonds. Companies can be either undercapitalized or overcapitalized. Here, we focus on the latter but we go over what it means to be undercapitalized a little further down.



Being overcapitalized means that a corporation's issued capital exceeds its operational needs. The heavy debt burden and associated interest payments that an overcapitalized entity carries can be a strain on profits and reduce the amount of retained funds the company has to invest in research and development (R&D) or other projects. Raising capital may be difficult as a company's stock may lose value in the market. As a whole, being overcapitalized puts a strain on its earning potential.



There are several reasons why companies may find themselves in a position where they are overcapitalized. Some of the most common causes of overcapitalization include:



Acquiring assets that don't fit with the company's operations
Purchasing high-priced assets
Very high initial or startup costs, which can appear as assets on a company's balance sheet
Loss of or drop in earnings due to changing economic or political conditions
Poor management



Companies may also find themselves at risk of becoming overcapitalized when they either mismanage or underutilize the capital they have at their disposal.



An overcapitalized company has several options available to correct the situation. Some of these options include:



Reducing its debt load by refinancing or restructuring debt
Cutting interest payments by paying off long-term debts
Conducting a share buyback from investors, which can effectively reduce a company's dividend payments



If none of these options is viable, the company may want to seek out a merger or be acquired by another entity.






Overcapitalization isn't just used in corporate finance. It's also commonly used in the insurance industry. When used in this context, the supply of available policies exceeds consumer demand. This situation creates a soft market and causes insurance premiums to decline until the market stabilizes. Policies purchased when premiums are low can reduce an insurance company's profitability.


   Special Considerations  

Although it may seem detrimental to a business, there is one advantage to being overcapitalized. When a company finds itself in this situation, it may have excess capital or cash on its balance sheet. This cash can earn a nominal rate of return (RoR) and increase the company's liquidity.



The excess capital also means the company has a higher valuation and can claim a higher price in the event of an acquisition or merger. Additional capital can also be used to fund capital expenditures, such as R&D projects.






Here's another way to look at overcapitalization. When a company raises capital well above certain limits, it may become overcapitalized. Again, this isn't good for the company as its capitalized value is higher than its market worth.


   Overcapitalization vs. Undercapitalization  

The opposite of overcapitalization is undercapitalization. Just like overcapitalization, being undercapitalized is not where any company wants to be.



Undercapitalization occurs when a company has neither sufficient cash flow nor access to the credit it requires to finance its operations. The company may not be able to issue stock on the public markets because the company does not meet the requirements or because the filing expenses are too high.



Essentially, the company cannot raise capital to fund itself, its daily operations, or any expansion projects. Undercapitalization most commonly occurs in companies with high start-up costs, too much debt, and insufficient cash flow. Undercapitalization can ultimately lead to bankruptcy.


   Example of Overcapitalization  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how overcapitalization works. Assume that construction firm Company ABC earns $200,000 and has a required rate of return of 20%. The fairly capitalized capital is $1,000,000 or $200,000 ÷ 20%.



Instead of $1,000,000, Company ABC decides to use $1,200,000 as its capital. The rate of earnings in this case becomes 17% or $200,000 ÷ $1,200,000 x 100. Due to overcapitalization, the rate of return has dropped from 20% to 17%




How Does Overcapitalization Work?
Overcapitalization happens when a company's debt and equity values are higher than those of its total assets. This means that its market value is less than its capitalized value. Companies that are overcapitalized may have trouble getting more financing or may be subject to higher interest rates. They may also have to pay more in dividends than they can sustain over the long run.




What Causes a Company to Become Overcapitalized?
A number of factors can lead to a company becoming overcapitalized. A company may become overcapitalized if it buys assets that are priced too high or acquire assets that fit into its operations. Other reasons include poor corporate management, higher-than-expected startup costs (which often appear as assets on the balance sheet), and a change in the business environment. Underutilizing funds can also lead to overcapitalization.




What Is Market Capitalization?
Market capitalization refers to the total dollar value of a company's outstanding shares. You can easily calculate this figure by multiplying the price of one share by the total number of shares outstanding.
What Is an Overcast?  

An overcast is a type of forecasting error that occurs when an estimated metric, such as future cash flows, performance levels, or production, is forecast too high. Overcasting thus is when the estimated value turns out to be above the realized or actual value.



Overcasting can be contrasted with undercasting, which is when a forecast is made too low.





Key Takeaways

An overcast occurs when a forecast or estimate is made too high.Typically, incorrect inputs or other errors in the forecasting process lead to results that are too aggressive or optimistic.Overcasting is a result of the need for analysts to sometimes estimate certain future metrics when no hard data are available.Unforeseen circumstances can also result in an overcast, where the initial inputs may have been correct, but the sudden change of events throws off the outcome.


   Understanding Overcast  

An overcast is caused by a variety of forecasting factors. The main factor that results in overcasting is using the wrong inputs. For example, when estimating the net income of a company for next year, one may overcast the amount if you underestimate costs or overestimate sales.


   Overcasting and Undercasting  

An overcast or undercast is not realized until after the end of the estimated period. Although it can usually apply to the forecast of budget items, such as sales and costs, these errors are also found when estimating other items. Uncertainties and items that require estimates are areas where analysts and those building forecasts must use judgment. The assumptions used can prove to be wrong, or unforeseen circumstances may arise, which leads to overcasting or undercasting.



Overcasting could be indicative of aggressive estimates or aggressive accounting. Consistent overcasting should be investigated. Company employees could be overpromising to please upper management. Or the company might be hoping to keep current shareholders and might be trying to attract additional shareholders with aggressive forecasts.






An undercast is the opposite of an overcast, in which a forecaster has underestimated a certain performance metric, either due to incorrect inputs or unforeseen events.


   Example of Overcasting  

If Company ABC expects to generate $10 million in sales for the year, but ends up only bringing in $8 million, an overcast of $2 million happened. This could happen for a variety of reasons. If during the budget building or forecasting process the company overestimates its average selling price for units, with all else equal, it can lead to an overcast. As well, if it overestimates the expected number of units sold, this can lead to an overcast.



If the same company expects to generate $1 million in net income but generates $800,000, that’s also an overcast. The reasons for an overcast of net income can be plentiful. They could include overestimating sales or underestimating costs, such as employee expenses, inventory purchases, or marketing costs. 



The idea of overcasting or undercasting can extend beyond company budgets to other forecasts, such as the number of products or parts a plant can manufacture in a week. If a plant forecasts it can create 13,000 parts in a week, but it puts out 12,900, there was an overcast. It can also apply to an investor’s portfolio. If an investor expects to collect $1,000 per year in dividends, but due to a dividend cut they collect $750, a $250 dividend income overcast happened.
What Is Over-Collateralization?  

Over-collateralization (OC) is the provision of collateral that is worth more than enough to cover potential losses in cases of default.



For example, a business owner seeking a loan could offer property or equipment worth 10% or 20% more than the amount being borrowed. Over-collateralization may be used by companies issuing bonds for the same reason.





Key Takeaways

A borrower may use over-collateralization to get better terms for a loan,An issuer of asset-backed securities may use over-collateralization to reduce the risk to potential investors.In either case, over-collateralization may enhance the credit rating of the borrower or the issuer of debt.



In the financial services industry, over-collateralization is used to offset the risk in products such as mortgage-backed securities. In this case, additional assets are added to the security to cushion any capital losses due to defaults on the individual loans that are packaged in the security.



In any case, the purpose of over-collateralization is to increase the credit rating or the credit profile of the borrower or the issuer of securities by reducing the risk to the investor.


   How Over-Collateralization (OC) Works  

Securitization is the practice of transforming a collection of assets, such as loans, into an investment, or security. Ordinary bank loans such as home mortgages are sold by the banks that issue them to financial institutions that then package them for resale as securitized investments.



In any case, these are not liquid assets but interest-producing debts. In financial terminology, they are asset-backed securities (ABS).






Almost any kind of debt may be securitized include residential or commercial mortgages, student loans, car loans, and credit card debt.


  Credit Enhancement  

A key step in the securitization of products is determining the appropriate level of credit enhancement. This refers to risk reduction to improve the credit profile of the structured financial products. A higher credit profile leads to a higher credit rating, which is key to finding buyers for securitized assets.



Investors in any securitized product face a risk of default on the underlying assets. Credit enhancement can be thought of as a financial cushion that allows the securities to absorb losses from defaults on the underlying loans.





10% to 20%

The rule of thumb for the amount of over-collateralization needed in order to improve a credit profile.



Over-collateralization is one technique that may be used for credit enhancement. In this case, the issuer backs a loan with assets or collateral which has a value that is in excess of the loan. That limits the credit risk for the creditor and enhances the credit rating assigned to the loan.


  The Rule of Thumb  

Over-collateralization is achieved when the value of assets in the pool is greater than the amount of the asset-backed security (ABS). So, even if some of the payments from the underlying loans are late or go into default, the principal and interest payments on the asset-backed security can still be made from the excess collateral.



As a rule of thumb, the value underlying a pool of assets is often 10% to 20% greater than the price of the issued security. For example, the principal amount of a mortgage-backed security issue might be $100 million, while the principal value of the mortgages underlying the issue might be $120 million.




What Is the Collateralization Ratio?
The collateralization ratio is the collateral value of the loan divided by the value of the loan. Loans that are over collateralized will have a value greater than 1. Loans that are under collateralized will have a value lower than 1.




What Is an Under-Collateralized Loan?
An under-collateralized loan is when a loan's collateral is less than its value. Many loans are under collateralized when the lender requires collateral, but that is a risk to the lender. If the borrower defaults on an under-collateralized loan, the lender may not be able to recoup the full amount owed.




What Is the Value of Over-Collateralization?
When a loan has more collateral, or backing, than the value of the loan, the risk to the lender is virtually eliminated. That's because if the borrower defaults, the lender can easily recoup the lost value by using the collateral, which will more than cover losses.


   The Bottom Line  

An over-collateralized loan is a loan that is backed by more collateral than it is worth. While in many cases, it is ideal to provide lower collateral so you do not put the collateral at risk, overcollateralizing a loan may be necessary in some cases, such as if you want to secure better terms.
What Is an Overdraft?  

An overdraft occurs when there isn't enough money in an account to cover a transaction or withdrawal, but the bank allows the transaction anyway. Essentially, it's an extension of credit from the financial institution that is granted when an account reaches zero. The overdraft allows the account holder to continue withdrawing money even when the account has no funds in it or has insufficient funds to cover the amount of the withdrawal.



Basically, an overdraft means that the bank allows customers to borrow a set amount of money. There is interest on the loan, and there is typically a fee per overdraft. At many banks, an overdraft fee can run upwards of $35.





Key Takeaways

An overdraft occurs when an account lacks the funds to cover a withdrawal, but the bank allows the transaction to go through anyway. The overdraft allows the customer to continue paying bills even when there is insufficient money.Many banks impose additional fees or penalties for overdrawn accounts. An overdraft is like any other loan: The account holder pays interest on it and will typically be charged a one-time insufficient funds fee.Overdraft protection is provided by some banks to customers when their account reaches zero; it avoids insufficient funds charges, but often includes interest and other fees.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Overdrafts  

With an overdraft account, a bank is covering payments a customer has made that would otherwise be rejected, or in the case of actual physical checks, would bounce and be returned without payment.



As with any loan, the borrower pays interest on the outstanding balance of an overdraft loan. Often, the interest on the loan is lower than the interest on credit cards, making the overdraft a better short-term option in an emergency. In many cases, there are additional fees for using overdraft protection that reduce the amount available to cover your checks, such as insufficient funds fees per check or withdrawal.



While banks can charge overdraft fees, they cannot change the order of a customer's transactions in order to collect more overdraft fees. In 2010, Wells Fargo was fined $203 million for the predatory practice of structuring customer withdrawals in a way that maximized overdraft fees.






In 2023, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) found some financial institutions charged unfair overdraft fees by authorizing an ATM or debit transaction made when the customer had a positive balance, but later charging an overdraft fee because intervening transactions went through before the debit settled. The CFPB found customers could not reasonably avoid these surprise fees. It told the banks and credit unions to stop charging overdraft fees in these situations and a number of them have come up with plans to refund customers who were charged them in the past.


   Special Considerations  

Your bank can opt to use its own funds to cover your overdraft. Another option is to link the overdraft to a credit card. If the bank uses its own funds to cover your overdraft, it typically won't affect your credit score. When a credit card is used for overdraft protection, it's possible that you can increase your debt to the point where it could affect your credit score. However, this won't show up as a problem with overdrafts on your checking accounts.



If you don't pay your overdrafts back in a predetermined amount of time, your bank can turn over your account to a collection agency. This collection action can affect your credit score and get reported to the three main credit agencies: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. It depends on how the account is reported to the agencies as to whether it shows up as a problem with an overdraft on a checking account.






If an overdrawn account is not paid off in time, the bank may turn the debt over to a collections agency.


   Overdraft Protection  

Some but not all banks will pay overdrafts automatically, as a courtesy to the customer (while charging fees, of course.) Overdraft protection provides the customer with a further tool to prevent embarrassing shortfalls that reflect poorly on your ability to pay.



Usually, it works by linking your checking account to a savings account, other checking account, or a line of credit. If there's a shortfall, this source gets tapped for the funds, ensuring that you won't have a check returned or a transaction/transfer declined. It also avoids triggering a non-sufficient funds (NSF) charge. The dollar amount of overdraft protection varies by account and by bank. Often, the customer needs to specifically request it. There are a variety of pros and cons to using overdraft protection, but one thing to bear in mind is that banks aren't providing the service out of the goodness of their hearts. They usually charge a fee for it.



As such, customers should be sure to rely on overdraft protection sparingly and only in an emergency. If the overdraft protection is used excessively, the financial institution can remove the protection from the account.




What Is an Overdraft Fee?
An overdraft is a loan provided by a bank that allows a customer to pay for bills and other expenses when the account reaches zero. For a fee, the bank provides a loan to the client in the event of an unexpected charge or insufficient account balance. Typically these accounts will charge a one-time funds fee and interest on the outstanding balance.




How Does Overdraft Protection Work?
Under overdraft protection, if a client’s checking account enters a negative balance, they will be able to access a predetermined loan provided by the bank and be charged a fee. In many cases, overdraft protection is used to prevent a check from bouncing, and the embarrassment that this may cause. Additionally, it may prevent a non-sufficient fund fee, but in many cases, each will type of fee will charge roughly the same amount.




What Are the Pros and Cons of Overdrafts?
The pros of overdraft involve providing coverage when an account unexpectedly has insufficient funds, avoiding embarrassment and "returned check" charges from merchants or creditors. But it's important to weigh the costs. Overdraft protection often comes with a significant fee and interest which, if not paid off in a timely manner, can add an additional burden to the account holder. According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, customers who had overdraft protection, in fact, often paid more in fees than those without it.


   The Bottom Line  

An overdraft is a temporary loan that allows bank customers to continue paying bills or withdrawing money even after their accounts are empty. This can be useful in emergencies, especially if the bank offers overdraft protection. However, overdrawing an account incurs additional penalties or interest, and should be avoided if possible.
What Is Overdraft Protection?  

Overdraft protection is an optional service that prevents the rejection of charges to a bank account (primarily checks, ATM transactions, debit-card charges) that are in excess of the available funds in the account. Overdraft protection, sometimes called cash-reserve checking, is used most frequently as a cushion for checking accounts, but it also can be applied to savings accounts.



With overdraft protection, even if the account has insufficient funds, the bank will cover the shortfall so that the transaction goes through. When a customer signs up for overdraft protection, they designate a backup account for the bank to use as the source to cover any overdrafts—usually a linked savings account, credit card, or line of credit. However, the bank charges the customer for this service in a few ways, e.g., overdraft fees to process any transactions that overdraw the account.





Key Takeaways

Overdraft protection is a guarantee that a check, ATM, wire transfer, or debit card transaction will clear if the account balance falls below zero.There may be heavy fees and interest associated with overdraft protection, depending on the kind of linked account used.Overdraft protection lines of credit can range from $250 to $5,000 and above.


   How Overdraft Protection Works  

Without overdraft protection, transactions that have insufficient funds to cover them are returned unpaid—that is, checks bounce and debit transactions are refused, which can be expensive and disruptive for the customer. Most banks charge hefty overdraft and non-sufficient funds (NSF) fees (between $30 and $35, per transaction, on average) for accounts that do not have sufficient funds. What's more, not only can the bank refuse payment and charge the account holder, but a penalty or fee may also be charged by the merchant for the failed transaction.



To avoid overdraft and NSF fees, customers who choose overdraft protection link their checking accounts to credit cards, savings accounts, or other lines of credit that kick in whenever they withdraw more than the current balance. This amounts to an automatic, pre-approved loan or transfer every time the customer with insufficient funds writes a check, makes a wire transfer, swipes a debit card, or asks an ATM for a sum in excess of the balance.



As soon as the overdraft protection service is triggered, the linked account is charged a transfer fee to move funds to cover the shortfall. The account holder may also be charged either an additional fee every month that overdraft protection is used or a fixed monthly fee for continuous protection.





Bounced Check Penalties

If you bounce a check, you can incur a variety of charges or, in extreme cases, your bank can close your account, which also impacts your ability to open a new checking account.


   Example of Overdraft Protection  

If a renter with overdraft protection writes an $800 check on an account with a balance of $650, the overdraft protection from their linked account kicks in as soon as the check is cashed—and the check clears instead of bouncing due to insufficient funds.



The bank charges a transfer fee of $15 for approving a transaction that exceeds available funds. The renter will now have a balance of $635 ($650 - $15) in the account as well as a charge of $800 to pay off on the linked credit card, line of credit, or savings account.





Multiple Overdraft or NSF Fees

In the absence of overdraft protection, it is not uncommon for banks to charge multiple overdraft or NSF fees per day. For example, a consumer might make successive purchases without realizing that the amount in their account is insufficient to cover the charges. If a checking account goes negative for more than a few days, many banks also charge an extended overdraft fee. It’s important to note that—even if you have overdraft protection—banks can still charge this additional fee.


   Special Considerations  

Lines of credit for overdraft protection can range from $250 to $5,000 and above—and, of course, customers incur interest charges and transaction fees for using these lines.



If a credit card is used as the backup account, the amount is treated as a cash advance—which can be an expensive form of overdraft protection. Not only do cash advances have no grace period, but they also have high interest rates and high fees (usually $10 flat fees or 5% of the advance, whichever is greater).



A linked savings account is probably the least expensive backup account for overdraft protection, but the backup must hold enough money to cover the shortfall in the first account.


   Trends in Overdraft Protection  

Overdraft fees have always been among the most controversial bank fees. According to a BankRate.com survey of 245 banks and thrifts in 25 large U.S. markets, the average overdraft fee declined to a 13-year low of $29.80, which is down 11% over last year’s record high of $33.58.



In the wake of the 2020 pandemic, public debate accelerated a trend toward eliminating overdraft fees altogether. For example, the U.S. Senate held hearings on how and why banks charge fees for insufficient funds and criticized bank CEOs for refusing to halt overdraft fees during the pandemic.



More evidence of this trend includes a 2022 American Banker report that—as big banks made headlines for reducing or eliminating overdraft fees—even credit unions felt pressure from regulators and digital bank competitors to do the same.




Is There a Limit on Overdraft Fees?
Federal laws do not specify maximums that banks can charge for overdrafts, but banks are required to disclose any fees when the account is established—and they are required to give customers advance notice of any fee increase.




Can Banks Refuse to Cover Overdrafts?
Banks are not required to offer overdraft protection, and—even when they do and a customer opts in—they retain the right to pay or not pay a particular overdraft transaction that might fall outside the rules of the agreement.




Is Overdraft Protection Mandatory?
Overdraft protection is optional; it is only the service that is automatic for bank customers who choose to opt in for overdraft protection on their checking or savings accounts.
What Is Overextension?  

The term "overextension" refers to a situation in finance in which an individual or corporation has more debt than they can handle and repay. Consumers who must use more than a third of their net income to repay debt are generally considered to be overextended. They may need to consolidate their debts into a single loan. Granting more credit to overextended consumers or companies can be a great risk to lenders. Being overextended also represents excessive leverage in a trader or investor's account equity and their buying power for securities.





Key Takeaways

Overextension refers to a situation in which an individual or corporation has more debt than they can handle and repay.Being overextended also represents excessive leverage in a trader or investor's account equity and their buying power for securities.Consumers and companies are generally overextended if they use at least one-third of their income to repay their debt.Consumers can consolidate their debt while companies can raise capital to keep themselves from becoming overextended.Granting more credit to those who are overextended can be risky for lenders.


   Understanding Overextension  

Being overextended can mean several different things in finance. As noted above, it is most commonly used to describe an individual or company's financial situation when they have more debt than they can afford to repay. Entities that use at least one-third of the money they make to repay debt are considered overextended. For instance, someone who makes $30,000 a year and pays $10,000 to satisfy their debt load is overextended. The same principle applies to companies that have more debt than earned income.



Credit, debt, and overextension are tricky to model financially. Because they can have a snowball effect, where conditions pile onto one another, conventional linear models do not account for the nonlinear, exponential nature of credit risk. Often, once strong credit issuers or borrowers can rapidly deteriorate to weak credits as Murphy's law works against an individual or business—anything that can go wrong will go wrong.



In many cases, consumers may have to turn to additional debt to take control of their finances. This often comes through debt consolidation, which involves paying off individual debts by taking on a larger loan. Doing so ensures that the borrower only has one large payment to make rather than many smaller ones. However, companies may have to find new ways to raise capital, such as issuing new shares of equity rather than taking on more debt.



As mentioned earlier, overextension is also used to describe excess leverage in trader and investors' account equity and buying power. Overextension of this kind can greatly amplify losses in a bear market and force the trader to meet steep margin calls. The inability to do this can result in forced liquidation of securities and the freezing of the account.






Being overextended generally doesn't include mortgage debt.


   Special Considerations  

The idea of overextension varies based on the financial characteristics of a borrower. Wealthy individuals and cash-rich businesses can take on proportionally more debt than weaker borrowers without overextending themselves.



Becoming overextended can be out of the control of a firm's management. For example, during a steep economic downturn, such as a recession, a company's financial condition can materially deteriorate largely out of the company's control. During tough economic times, it is not uncommon for a once healthy business to become overextended as conditions move out of its favor.



This can happen to entire sectors even during robust economic climates. For instance, traditional brick-and-mortar retailers have struggled to adjust to online and e-commerce competition, despite record growth in many segments of the economy.
What Is Overfitting?  

Overfitting is a modeling error in statistics that occurs when a function is too closely aligned to a limited set of data points. As a result, the model is useful in reference only to its initial data set, and not to any other data sets.



Overfitting the model generally takes the form of making an overly complex model to explain idiosyncrasies in the data under study. In reality, the data often studied has some degree of error or random noise within it. Thus, attempting to make the model conform too closely to slightly inaccurate data can infect the model with substantial errors and reduce its predictive power.





Key Takeaways

Overfitting is an error that occurs in data modeling as a result of a particular function aligning too closely to a minimal set of data points.Financial professionals are at risk of overfitting a model based on limited data and ending up with results that are flawed.When a model has been compromised by overfitting, the model may lose its value as a predictive tool for investing.A data model can also be underfitted, meaning it is too simple, with too few data points to be effective.Overfitting is a more frequent problem than underfitting and typically occurs as a result of trying to avoid overfitting.


   Understanding Overfitting  

For instance, a common problem is using computer algorithms to search extensive databases of historical market data in order to find patterns. Given enough study, it is often possible to develop elaborate theorems that appear to predict returns in the stock market with close accuracy.



However, when applied to data outside of the sample, such theorems may likely prove to be merely the overfitting of a model to what were in reality just chance occurrences. In all cases, it is important to test a model against data that is outside of the sample used to develop it.


   How to Prevent Overfitting  

Ways to prevent overfitting include cross-validation, in which the data being used for training the model is chopped into folds or partitions and the model is run for each fold. Then, the overall error estimate is averaged. Other methods include ensembling: predictions are combined from at least two separate models, data augmentation, in which the available data set is made to look diverse, and data simplification, in which the model is streamlined to avoid overfitting.






Financial professionals must always be aware of the dangers of overfitting or underfitting a model based on limited data. The ideal model should be balanced.


   Overfitting in Machine Learning  

Overfitting is also a factor in machine learning. It might emerge when a machine has been taught to scan for specific data one way, but when the same process is applied to a new set of data, the results are incorrect. This is because of errors in the model that was built, as it likely shows low bias and high variance. The model may have had redundant or overlapping features, resulting in it becoming needlessly complicated and therefore ineffective.


   Overfitting vs. Underfitting  

A model that is overfitted may be too complicated, making it ineffective. But a model can also be underfitted, meaning it is too simple, with too few features and too little data to build an effective model. An overfit model has low bias and high variance, while an underfit model is the opposite—it has high bias and low variance. Adding more features to a too-simple model can help limit bias.


   Overfitting Example  

For example, a university that is seeing a college dropout rate that is higher than what it would like decides it wants to create a model to predict the likelihood that an applicant will make it all the way through to graduation.



To do this, the university trains a model from a dataset of 5,000 applicants and their outcomes. It then runs the model on the original dataset—the group of 5,000 applicants—and the model predicts the outcome with 98% accuracy. But to test its accuracy, they also run the model on a second dataset—5,000 more applicants. However, this time, the model is only 50% accurate, as the model was too closely fit to a narrow data subset, in this case, the first 5,000 applications.
What Is an Overfunded Pension Plan?  

An overfunded pension plan is a company retirement plan that has more assets than liabilities. In other words, there is a surplus amount of money needed to cover current and future monthly benefits to retirees. Although accounting standards allow the company to record the surplus as net income,﻿﻿ it cannot be paid out to corporation shareholders like other income as it is reserved for current and future retirees.





Key Takeaways

An overfunded pension plan is a company retirement plan that has more than enough funds to cover current and future benefits to employees.Pension funds are usually invested in financial securities, including stocks, mutual funds, and bonds.Over time, pension plans can become overfunded as a result of long periods of stock market increases.


   Understanding an Overfunded Pension Plan  

A pension plan is a type of defined benefit plan in which employers contribute money on behalf of their employees based on a formula that considers the employee's salary and length of employment. The funds in many pensions are invested in individual securities, such as stocks, and a basket of securities, such as mutual funds. Many pension funds are also invested in bonds, which are debt instruments that typically pay interest payments during the life of the bond.



The goal is to have the pension fund grow as a result of investment gains and any interest earned from the securities. The growth in the fund's investment earnings is extremely important since the majority of the monthly benefits paid out to an employee are usually from these earnings while employer contributions make up a smaller portion of the monthly benefits. Over time, pension plans can become overfunded as a result of long periods of stock market increases. As a result of an overfunded pension, there are more than enough funds to pay both current and future monthly benefits to employees.



However, it's usually more common for a pension plan to be underfunded as investment shortfalls tend to be more common. An underfunded pension is when there are not enough funds in the plan to cover current or future pension benefits.


  Funding Ratio  

How well a pension plan is funded is determined by calculating the plan's funding ratio. The funding ratio is the result of dividing the total assets in a plan by the amount of benefits that are due to be paid out. A pension plan that has a funding ratio of less than 100% means that it doesn't have enough funds to cover future liabilities or monthly benefits. A pension that's overfunded would have a funding ratio of more than 100 percent.



However, just because a funding ratio is below 100%, doesn't necessarily mean the pension is in trouble or in danger of not fulfilling its financial commitments. Typically, a pension that has a funding ratio of 80% or more is considered stable. For example, as of July 2020 (the most recent figures as of Dec. 2, 2020), pensions were 81.1% funded for the 100 largest corporate defined benefit plans.﻿﻿ These plans enjoyed surpluses during the dot-com bubble and the years preceding the Great Recession but failed to benefit from the bull market of the past decade.


   Benefits of an Overfunded Pension Plan  

The funding level of a pension plan is an indication of the health of the plan and the likelihood that the company will be able to pay the monthly retirement benefits when employees retire. If the pension plan is more than 100% funded, it's an overfunded plan, and that's a good thing for beneficiaries. It means the company has already saved more than enough money to pay projected retirement benefits for current workers and retirees.



A well-funded or overfunded pension plan can provide peace of mind for employees that their monthly retirement benefits should be there in their golden years.


   How Pension Plan Benefits Are Estimated  

Estimating the amount of money a company will need to pay its pension obligations is not a simple undertaking. An actuary is a professional that uses mathematical and statistical analysis to measure risks and financial obligations for companies in the future. Actuaries create mathematical models to try to predict how long employees and their spouses will live, future salary growth, at what age employees will retire, and the amount of money a company will earn from investing its pension savings. The resulting estimate is the amount of money the company should have saved in the pension fund.﻿﻿



Actuaries calculate the amount of contributions a company must pay into a pension, based on the benefits the participants receive or are promised and the estimated growth of the plan’s investments. These contributions are tax-deductible to the employer.﻿﻿



How much money the plan ends up with at the end of the year depends on the amount they paid out to participants and the investment growth that was earned on the money. As such, shifts in the market can cause a fund to be either underfunded or overfunded.


   Special Considerations  

In some cases, defined benefit plans can become overfunded in the hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars. Regrettably, overfunding is of no use while in the plan (beyond the sense of security it may provide beneficiaries). An overfunded pension plan will not result in increased participant benefits and cannot be used by the business or its owners.
What Is Overhang?  

Overhang is a measure of the potential dilution of stock shares due to possible awards of stock-based compensation. It is usually represented as a percentage and is calculated as stock options granted plus the remaining options to be granted divided by the total shares outstanding ((SO+RO)/TSO).





Key Takeaways

Overhang is a measure of the potential dilution to which common shareholders are exposed due to possible awards of stock-based compensation.Overhang is usually represented as a percentage and is calculated as stock options granted plus the remaining options to be granted divided by the total shares outstanding.More broadly, overhang can also refer to the downward pressure caused by the presence of a large block of shares that could be sold.Overhang is calculated by dividing the number of existing and future option issues by the total number of stock outstanding.The higher the overhang number, the greater the risk.


   Understanding Overhang  

There is no rule of thumb for determining how much overhang is harmful to common shareholders, but generally speaking, the higher the number, the greater the risk. The options overhang decreases after a public offering because the number of shares outstanding increases. If a company has a very high options overhang, it must generate even higher levels of growth and profits to compensate for the overhang's dilutive effects on earnings per share (EPS) and therefore investor returns.



This, in turn, can lead managers to take on more risk, pay out less in dividends, and take on more debt—all of which can result in greater volatility in the company's stock price. Companies with high levels of employee stock ownership, on the other hand, tend to have stronger financial performance, pay higher dividends, and see less stock price volatility.


   How to Calculate Overhang  

The simplest way to calculate options overhang is to add up existing and future option issues divided by the total number of stock outstanding. For example, suppose a company has already issued 50,000 options and has plans to distribute 50,000 more. Assuming that the company has 1 million shares outstanding, then the total overhang is (50,000 + 50,000)/1,000,000 = 10%.






Used in the broad sense, market overhang can refer to any situation where investors hold back from an asset due to uncertainties about the near future.


   Special Considerations  

According to a 2020 study by executive compensation consultant F.W. Cook & Co., small-cap companies grant a significantly higher percentage of their stock options to executives as compared to large-cap companies. Technology companies also have the lowest share of awards granted to senior management while the retail and industrial sectors have the highest.



Because an options overhang can have a negative effect on the price of a stock, entrepreneurs and company management generally devise HR strategies to mitigate its impact. Performance-based options are one such strategy. The chances are lower that an employee will exercise performance-based options versus traditional stock options that are not tied to performance and are almost certain to be exercised, once their vesting period is over.




What Is the Definition of Overhang?
In the broadest definition, market overhang refers to a situation where customers or investors wait for future events rather than buying a certain product or stock. This is usually because of uncertainties or fears regarding that stock's near-term future.




What Is Stock Overhang?
Broadly speaking, stock overhang refers to situations where a few shareholders possess a large block of stock shares, raising the possibility of a price drop if they sell them all at once. Stock overhang is most common in situations where employees are compensated with a large number of company shares, but it may also apply to the stock holdings owned by large institutional investors.




What Is Bearish Overhang?
Bearish overhang refers to a situation in which buyers are reluctant to purchase a certain asset, due to the presence of a large block of that asset that would cause prices to fall if the block were sold. This usually refers to stock shares, but it can also refer to commodities. For example, during the negotiations over U.S.–Iran sanctions, some analysts warned of a "bearish overhang" caused by a potential sell-off of the Iranian oil supply.




What Is Risk Overhang?
In insurance, risk overhang refers to situations where continuous exposure to past transactions can limit an insurer's actions in the present. This is usually the case when an insurer has to pass on lucrative opportunities because they cannot take on any more risk.
What Is Overhead?  

Overhead refers to the ongoing business expenses not directly attributed to creating a product or service. It is important for budgeting purposes but also for determining how much a company must charge for its products or services to make a profit. In short, overhead is any expense incurred to support the business while not being directly related to a specific product or service.





Key Takeaways

Overhead refers to the ongoing costs to operate a business but excludes the direct costs associated with creating a product or service.Overhead costs can be fixed, variable, or a hybrid of both.There exist different categories of overhead, such as administrative overhead, which includes costs related to managing a business.The income statement reports overhead expenses.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Overhead  

A company must pay overhead on an ongoing basis, regardless of how much or how little the company sells. For example, a service-based business with an office has overhead expenses, such as rent, utilities, and insurance that are in addition to direct costs (such as labor and supplies) of providing its service.



Expenses related to overhead appear on a company's income statement, and they directly affect the overall profitability of the business. The company must account for overhead expenses to determine its net income, also referred to as the bottom line. Net income is calculated by subtracting all production-related and overhead expenses from the company's net revenue, also referred to as the top line.


   Types of Overhead  

Overhead expenses can be fixed, meaning they are the same amount every time, or variable, meaning they increase or decrease depending on the business's activity level. Overhead expenses can also be semi-variable, meaning the company incurs some portion of the expense no matter what, and the other portion depends on the level of business activity.


  Fixed Overhead  

Fixed overhead is overhead costs that remain static for a long period of time and do not change as business activity ebbs and flows. Regardless of if business is growing or slowing, fixed overhead remains the same. Examples include rent, depreciation, insurance premiums, office personnel salaries. and the cost of licenses.


  Variable Overhead  

Variable overhead consists of the overhead costs that fluctuate with business activity. These are overhead costs that are not static. As business activity increases, so does variable overhead. As business activity slows, the variable overhead decreases. Examples include office equipment, shipping and mailing costs, marketing, legal expenses, and maintenance.


  Semi-Variable Overhead  

Semi-variable overhead is a combination of fixed and variable overhead where some costs are incurred regardless of business activity but may also increase if business activity grows. Examples of semi-variable overhead include commissions and utility costs. For utilities, a base amount is charged and the remainder of the charges are based on usage.


  Other Types  

Other categories of overhead may be appropriate depending on the business. For example, overhead expenses may apply to a variety of operational categories. General and administrative overhead traditionally includes costs related to the general management and administration of a company, such as the need for accountants, human resources, and receptionists.



Selling overhead relates to activities involved in marketing and selling the good or service. This can include printed materials and television commercials, as well as the commissions of sales personnel. Other categories such as research overhead, maintenance overhead, manufacturing overhead, or transportation overhead also apply.


   Examples of Overhead  

Some common examples of overhead costs companies must assume are rent, utilities, administrative costs, insurance, and employee perks.


  Rent and Utilities  

The costs associated with maintaining the office or manufacturing space companies must have in order to perform their business is an example of overhead. This includes rent as well as utilities such as water, gas, electricity, internet, and phone service. Additional costs such as a subscription to virtual meeting platforms like Zoom (ZM) also must be factored into a company's overhead.


  Administrative Costs  

Administrative costs are often one of the most expensive facets of a company's overhead. This can include the cost of stocking the office with the necessary supplies, the salaries of office associates, and external legal and audit fees. Administrative costs can range from the supply of toilet paper in the office restroom to hiring an external audit firm to ensure the company complies with industry-specific regulations.


  Insurance  

Depending on the company, businesses are required to hold many different types of insurance in order to operate properly. These can include basic property insurance to protect the company's physical assets from fire, flood, or theft as well as professional liability insurance, health insurance for its employees, and car insurance for any company-owned vehicles. While none of these costs are directly related to generating revenue for the company by providing a good or service, the business is often legally mandated to purchase these various types of insurance if it wishes to operate within most jurisdictions.


  Employee Perks  

Many larger companies offer a range of benefits to their employees such as keeping their offices stocked with coffee and snacks, providing gym discounts, hosting company retreats, and company cars. All of these expenses are considered overhead as they have no direct impact on the business's goods or services.


   Special Considerations  

Overhead is typically a general expense, meaning it applies to the company's operations as a whole. It is commonly accumulated as a lump sum, at which point it may then be allocated to a specific project or department based on certain cost drivers. For example, using activity-based costing, a service-based business may allocate overhead expenses based on the activities completed within each department, such as printing or office supplies.




Why Is Overhead Cost Important?
Overhead cost is important because it is the cost to run your business. Understanding and managing your overhead well, particularly how it relates to your business output, will help ensure your business is profitable and to obtain the best margins you can on your sales.




What Are Different Types of Overhead?
Broadly speaking, overhead can be organized into three main types. Fixed overhead includes expenses that are the same amount consistently over time. These can include rent and depreciation on fixed assets. Variable overhead expenses include costs that may fluctuate over time such as shipping costs. Semi-variable costs are a blend of the two. Utilities are an example of a semi-variable cost. 




How Is Overhead Calculated?
Since overhead is often considered a general expense, it is accumulated as a lump sum. This is then allocated to a specific product or service. There are a number of different ways of calculating overhead, however, the general rule is the following: Overhead rate = Indirect costs/ Allocation measure. The indirect costs are the overhead costs, while the allocation measure would include labor hours, or direct machine costs, which is how the company measures its production.


   The Bottom Line  

Overhead refers to the costs of running a business that are not directly related to producing a good or service. These costs can be fixed, such as rent, or variable, such as transport costs. They can also be semi-variable, such as utilities. Effectively managing your overhead allows you to keep costs low, set competitive prices, and maximize the most of your revenues.
What Is the Overhead Rate?  

The overhead rate is a cost allocated to the production of a product or service. Overhead costs are expenses that are not directly tied to production such as the cost of the corporate office. To allocate overhead costs, an overhead rate is applied to the direct costs tied to production by spreading or allocating the overhead costs based on specific measures.



For example, overhead costs may be applied at a set rate based on the number of machine hours or labor hours required for the product.





Key Takeaways


Overhead rate is a cost allocated to the production of a product or service. Overhead costs are expenses that are not directly tied to production such as the cost of the corporate office.
By analyzing how much it costs in overhead for every hour the machine is producing the company's goods, management can properly price the product to make sure there's enough profit margin to compensate for its indirect costs. 
A company that excels at monitoring and improving its overhead rate can improve its bottom line or profitability.



   Overhead Rate Formula and Calculation  

Although there are multiple ways to calculate an overhead rate, below is the basis for any calculation:



﻿




Overhead rate


=




Indirect costs




Allocation measure





\text{Overhead rate} = \frac{\text{Indirect costs}}{\text{Allocation measure}}


Overhead rate=Allocation measureIndirect costs​﻿



Note that:



Indirect costs are the overhead costs or costs that are not directly tied to the production of a product or service.Allocation measure is any type of measurement that's necessary to make the product or service. It could be the number of direct labor hours or machine hours for a particular product or a period.



The calculation of the overhead rate has a basis on a specific period. So, if you wanted to determine the indirect costs for a week, you would total up your weekly indirect or overhead costs. You would then take the measurement of what goes into production for the same period. So, if you were to measure the total direct labor cost for the week, the denominator would be the total weekly cost of direct labor for production that week. Finally, you would divide the indirect costs by the allocation measure to achieve how much in overhead costs for every dollar spent on direct labor for the week.


   Using the Overhead Rate  

The overhead rate is a cost added on to the direct costs of production in order to more accurately assess the profitability of each product. In more complicated cases, a combination of several cost drivers may be used to approximate overhead costs.



Overhead expenses are generally fixed costs, meaning they're incurred whether or not a factory produces a single item or a retail store sells a single product. Fixed costs would include building or office space rent, utilities, insurance, supplies, maintenance, and repair. Overhead costs also include administrative salaries and some professional and miscellaneous fees that are tucked under selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) within a firm's operating expenses on the income statement. Unless a cost can be directly attributable to a specific revenue-generating product or service, it will be classified as overhead, or as an indirect expense.



It is often difficult to assess precisely the amount of overhead costs that should be attributed to each production process. Costs must thus be estimated based on an overhead rate for each cost driver or activity. It is important to include indirect costs that are based on this overhead rate in order to price a product or service appropriately. If a company prices its products so low that revenues do not cover its overhead costs, the business will be unprofitable.


   Direct Costs vs. the Overhead Rate  

Direct costs are costs directly tied to a product or service that a company produces. Direct costs can be easily traced to their cost objects. Cost objects can include goods, services, departments, or projects. Direct costs include direct labor, direct materials, manufacturing supplies, and wages tied to production.



The overhead rate allocates indirect costs to the direct costs tied to production by spreading or allocating the overhead costs based on the dollar amount for direct costs, total labor hours, or even machine hours.


   Limitations of the Overhead Rate  

The overhead rate has limitations when applying it to companies that have few overhead costs or when their costs are mostly tied to production. Also, it's important to compare the overhead rate to companies within the same industry. A large company with a corporate office, a benefits department, and a human resources division will have a higher overhead rate than a company that's far smaller and with less indirect costs.


   Examples of Overhead Rates  

The equation for the overhead rate is overhead (or indirect) costs divided by direct costs or whatever you're measuring. Direct costs typically are direct labor, direct machine costs, or direct material costs—all expressed in dollar amounts. Each one of these is also known as an "activity driver" or "allocation measure."


  Example 1: Costs in Dollars  

Let's assume a company has overhead expenses that total $20 million for the period. The company wants to know how much overhead relates to direct labor costs. The company has direct labor expenses totaling $5 million for the same period.



To calculate the overhead rate:



Divide $20 million (indirect costs) by $5 million (direct labor costs).Overhead rate = $4 or ($20/$5), meaning that it costs the company $4 in overhead costs for every dollar in direct labor expenses.


  Example 2: Cost per Hour  

The overhead rate can also be expressed in terms of the number of hours. Let's say a company has overhead expenses totaling $500,000 for one month. During that same month, the company logs 30,000 machine hours to produce their goods.



To calculate the overhead rate:



Divide $500,000 (indirect costs) by 30,000 (machine hours).Overhead rate = $16.66, meaning that it costs the company $16.66 in overhead costs for every hour the machine is in production.



By analyzing how much it costs in overhead for every hour the machine is producing the company's goods, management can properly price the product to make sure there's enough profit margin to compensate for the $16.66 per hour in indirect costs.



Of course, management also has to price the product to cover the direct costs involved in the production, including direct labor, electricity, and raw materials. A company that excels at monitoring and improving its overhead rate can improve its bottom line or profitability.
What Is an Overhead Ratio?  

An overhead ratio is a measurement of the operating costs of doing business compared to the company's income. A low overhead ratio indicates that a company is minimizing business expenses that are not directly related to production.


   The Formula for the Overhead Ratio Is  

The overhead ratio is arrived at by dividing operating expenses by the sum of taxable net interest income and operating income. That is:



﻿















Overhead Ratio


=




Operating Expenses




TII


+


Operating Income


















where:
















TII


=


Taxable interest income








\begin{aligned} &\text{Overhead Ratio} = \frac { \text{Operating Expenses} }{ \text{TII} + \text{Operating Income} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{TII} = \text{Taxable interest income} \\ \end{aligned}


​Overhead Ratio=TII+Operating IncomeOperating Expenses​where:TII=Taxable interest income​﻿


   The Basics of Overhead Ratios  

A company's overhead expenses are the costs that result from its normal, day-to-day business operations. Operating expenses might include office rent, advertising, utilities, insurance, depreciation, or machinery.



Calculations of overhead exclude costs that are directly related to the production of the goods or services that the company produces.



Thus, in a toy factory, the skilled workers who make the toys and the tools they use to create them are not overhead expenses. But employees of the marketing department and the promotional materials they produce are overhead costs.





Key Takeaways

An overhead ratio is a measurement of the operating costs of doing business compared to the company's income. A low overhead ratio indicates that a company is minimizing business expenses that are not directly related to production.Calculating its overhead ratio helps a company evaluate its costs of doing business compared to the income the business is generating. 


   How Overhead Ratios Are Used  

Calculating its overhead ratio helps a company evaluate its costs of doing business compared to the income the business is generating. In general, a company strives to achieve the lowest operating expenses possible without sacrificing the quality or competitiveness of its goods or services.



A company also may keep track of its overhead ratio in order to compare it to others in its industry, or its industry as a whole. A higher overhead ratio in comparison to the competition might require some adjustment or at least a rational explanation. For example, a company might determine that maintaining its headquarters in Manhattan or San Francisco has caused it to have a higher overhead ratio than a competitor located in Omaha or Akron.



Cutting expenses has a positive effect on the overhead ratio. However, a company must balance the effect of these cuts with any potential damage to the products or services it sells.
What Is an Overheated Economy?  

An overheated economy is one that has experienced a prolonged period of good economic growth and activity that has led to high levels of inflation, triggered by increased consumer wealth.





Key Takeaways

An overheating economy is an economy that is expanding at an unsustainable rate.The two main signs of an overheating economy are rising rates of inflation and an unemployment rate that is below the normal rate for an economy.Causes of an overheating economy range from external economic shocks to asset bubbles.


   Understanding an Overheated Economy  

A sharp rise in prices causes inefficient supply allocations as producers overproduce and create excess production capacity in an attempt to capitalize on the high levels of wealth. Unfortunately, these inefficiencies and inflation will eventually hinder the economy's growth and can often be a precursor to a recession.



Simply put, an overheated economy is one that is expanding at a rate that is unsustainable. There are two main signs of an overheating economy—rising rates of inflation and an unemployment rate that is below the normal rate for an economy.


  Rising Rates of Inflation  

Rising inflation is typically one of the first signs that an economy is overheating. As a result, governments and central banks will usually raise interest rates in an attempt to lower the amount of spending and borrowing. While central banks can combat rising inflation through interest rate increases, they can often come too late. Because inflation is a lagging indicator, it can take a while for changes in policy to reduce the rate. 



Between June 2004 and June 2006, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) increased the interest rate 17 times as a gradual means of slowing America's overheated economy. However, two years later, U.S. inflation hit 5.6 percent, a cycle high. This rapid rise in prices was followed by a crippling recession, which saw inflation plunged below zero within six months.


  Abnormally High Employment Rates  

The second sign of an overheating economy is an unemployment rate that is below the normal rate for a country. Full employment should be a good thing. But full employment also means higher inflation since everyone has a job (meaning productivity is at an all-time high) and money to spend.



Since World War II, the unemployment rate generally fell below 5% in the years immediately preceding recessions. That includes the years leading up to the Great Recession.






Other characteristics of overheated economies include abnormally high levels of consumer confidence followed by a sharp reversal. 


   Causes of an Overheating Economy  

The two main signs outlined above are also causes of an overheating economy. Other causes of an overheating economy include asset bubbles and external economic shocks. An example of the latter are the oil shocks that occurred during much of the 1970s and 1980s. They resulted in recessions of varying periods and intensity as America's oil import bill grew to meet increased demand for gasoline.



Asset bubbles are an unsustainable increase in prices for certain assets. This is a sign of overheating. The bursting of the dotcom bubble in 2001 resulted in a recession. More recently, the 2008 financial crisis was the result of a bubble in real estate mortgages. The bubble had wide-reaching implications across geographies and resulted in a prolonged recession that spanned multiple geographies.


   Example of an Overheating Economy  

The Great Recession during the late 2000s was preceded by an overheating economy. The unemployment rate continuously fell until 2007, culminating at a rate of 4.6% (below the normal rate) in that year. Meanwhile, the inflation rate, which had been steadily rising, peaked at 5.25% in 2006, when Ben Bernanke became the Fed Chair and right before the crisis.



Another sign of a U.S. economy that was overheating was the real estate asset bubble that burst in 2007 and sent shock waves through the entire U.S. financial ecosystem. Compounding these problems was the government's spending. During President Clinton's years, the federal budget had a surplus. However, President Bush's tax cuts converted that surplus into a deficit.



In 2005, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that there would be a budget deficit of $368 billion that year and it would be followed by a deficit of $295 billion the next year. In short, the U.S. economy demonstrated the hallmarks of an overheating economy in the years leading up to the recession.
What Is Overlapping Debt?  

Overlapping debt refers to the financial obligations of one political jurisdiction that also falls partly on a nearby jurisdiction. Overlapping debt is common in the U.S. because most states are divided into numerous jurisdictions for different tax purposes, such as building a new public school or building a new road.





Key Takeaways

Overlapping debt is when debt issued to fund government activities falls across multiple political jurisdictions, with the joint debt apportioned among them. Overlapping debt is quite common among various levels of local government in the U.S., with special districts and fiscal authorities for things like schools and public infrastructure that overlap multiple municipalities.The amount of overlapping debt can impact the borrowing costs and credit rating of a municipal government.Use of overlapping debt and fiscal authorities tends to bias local governance toward greater total spending, total debt, and higher tax burdens.


   Understanding Overlapping Debt  

Municipalities issue debt to raise money from the public to fund capital projects that will benefit residents of the region. For example, if a city or county decides to build a school, airport, highway, or hospital, it will typically issue debt to borrow the funds needed to construct such infrastructure. Two municipal government bodies may have overlapping jurisdictions, such as a state and a city or a city and a county. The different jurisdictions may each issue debt in the form of municipal bonds and notes when they need to raise money to pay for these major expenses, which are intended to serve all the residents of a political jurisdiction.



When the debt of a municipal authority is shared with another government, the debt is referred to as an overlapping debt. For example, a bond that funds a project in a county school district could be considered overlapping debt to a town located within that school district. The town is only responsible for its proportional share of the overlapping debt. This proportional share plus the municipality's direct debt together make up the municipality's overall net debt. The municipality's overall net debt is an important factor in its ability to obtain future debt financing. Also, taxpayers are responsible for paying their share of the debt from each jurisdiction.



Overlapping debt is often greater than the direct debt of a municipal government and is determined by the ratio of assessed valuation of taxable property lying within the corporate limits of the municipality to the assessed valuation of each overlapping district. Having overlapping debt may affect one or both governments' ability to repay.


   Economic Implications of Overlapping Debt  

Economic research has shown the practice of having multiple, overlapping local authorities that can issue overlapping debt to fund their activities can have significant fiscal effects on local governments. Empirical analyses have found that overlapping of local jurisdictions that can spend and issue overlapping debt tends to creates a bias toward more total public sector spending. Other researchers have found that overlapping local fiscal authorities tend to treat the available tax base and total ability to raise funds from the market via bond issuance as common-pool resources, with associated tragedy-of-the-commons problems.﻿﻿ 



This means that the widespread practice of overlapping governmental authorities issuing overlapping debt tends to increase the size and fiscal burden of local government as overlapping authorities compete against one another on a political area to exploit the same tax base. Various authorities responding to different sets of voters and interest group demands for public spending thus end up overexploiting the tax base in a region while taking on more total debt and spending more on public programs and infrastructure than voters in the region as a whole actually want.
What Is Overlay?  

Overlay refers to a management style that harmonizes an investor's separately managed accounts. Overlay management uses software to track an investor's combined position from separate accounts. The overlay system analyzes any portfolio adjustments to ensure the overall portfolio remains in balance and to prevent any inefficient transactions from occurring. Overlay portfolio management makes sure the investor’s strategies are implemented and coordinated successfully.



Overlay portfolio management is often used with the portfolios of institutional investors and ultra-high net worth individuals. Money managers and financial advisors employ it to oversee and track the various investor accounts in their care.





Key Takeaways

Overlay refers to an asset management style that uses software to harmonize an investor's separately managed accounts.The overlay system analyzes any portfolio adjustments to ensure the overall portfolio remains in balance, preventing inefficiencies and coordinating efforts in line with a client's tax situation and risk tolerance.Overlay often involves the assets being combined in a unified management portfolio, overseen by a manager, to whom individual asset managers make recommendations.


   How Overlay Works  

When an investor has separately managed portfolios, assets are placed under the control of different managers. This set-up can cause inefficiencies if the managers begin making transactions that either increase the risk of the overall portfolio, have negative tax effects, unbalance the investor's positions, or work at cross purposes. For example, if one of the separately managed account traders purchases an asset, and another trader sells it, the investor is left with a neutral position and two transaction fees.



Overlay management seeks to improve the communication between the separate managers, allowing for increases in transaction efficiency. In traditional separately managed account structures, clients' capital is delegated to multiple outside managers to invest, but in anoverlay system, the assets—and the ultimate responsibility—stay togetherin a unified managed account. Overlay portfolios should have a stated purpose and specific guidelines to avoid issues arising. For instance, the overlay manager may determine maximum allocations across an entire portfolio or require that investments are made in a particular asset class.



As a pamphlet from Ostrum (formerly Natixis) Asset Management charmingly puts it;



In some ways, the role of the overlay manager is analogous to that of an orchestra conductor. The overlay manager (conductor) coordinates the activities of the underlying managers (musicians) to ensure a harmonious outcome.


   Advantages of Overlay Portfolio Management  

Rebalancing: An overlay manager ensures an investor’s total holdings are rebalanced when necessary. For example, an investor may want a portfolio allocation of 30% equities, 30% fixed income and 20% cash. If these asset classes are held in three different accounts, the overlay manager makes adjustments to maintain these allocations.                                                     
Risk Management: Risk can be managed more effectively using an overlay manager. Portfolios that hold different asset classes, investment types and hedging strategies can be monitored to make sure the portfolio is remaining within the investor’s risk parameters. For example, if an investor is employing a long/short investment strategy through different trading accounts, an overlay manager can monitor the overall net exposure.                                                                                   
Tax Management: Overlay managers can monitor capital gains and losses across an investor’s separate accounts to help manage their tax obligations. For instance, an overlay manager may decide to sell a losing investment in one account to partially offset a large capital gain in another account.                             
Simplicity: Overlay portfolio management makes a complex multi-investment strategy easy to implement. Accounts can be consolidated into a single master portfolio, with a single statement, to minimize paperwork and client compliance agreements. If the investor has a query about a portfolio, they have a single point of contact.





Pros

Professional asset management and allocation
Near-automatic rebalancing, risk management
Tax management
Single contact for investor



Cons

Time-consuming to establish
Compliance approval needed
Ongoing communication, meetings
Accounts, assets all at one firm





   Limitations of Overlay Portfolio Management  

If the different portfolios have complex investment strategies, an overlay system may be time-consuming to set up. Gathering documentation from various fund managers and understanding their approach toward portfolio construction and risk management may require numerous meetings to ensure effective coordination—not just initially, but ongoing.



Also, an overlay portfolio typically needs to be approved by various compliance departments before it can be established.


   Real-World Example of Overlay  

Many wealth/asset management firms and trust companies offer overlay services to their clients. Piper Jaffray is one such. Clients who opt for a Unified Managed Account are assigned an overlay portfolio manager, who has responsibility for the day-to-day management of the assets, based on the client's stated goals, needs, preferences, risk tolerance, etc. This manager, in turn, receives investment advice from other investment managers in the form of a model portfolio—a recommendation of specific securities and transactions. The overlay portfolio manager decides whether or not to execute these recommendations, and to what degree, in line with the client's tax situation, current asset allocation, and degree of aggressiveness.
What Is Overleveraged?  

A business is said to be overleveraged when it is carrying too much debt when compared to its operating cash flows and equity. An overleveraged company has difficulty in paying its interest and principal payments and is often unable to pay its operating expenses because of excessive costs due to its debt burden, which often leads to a downward financial spiral. This results in the company having to borrow more to stay in operation, and the problem gets worse. This spiral usually ends when a company restructures its debt or files for bankruptcy protection.





Key Takeaways

A company is said to be overleveraged when it has too much debt, impeding its ability to make principal and interest payments and to cover operating expenses.Being overleveraged typically leads to a downward financial spiral resulting in the need to borrow more.Companies typically restructure their debt or file for bankruptcy to resolve their overleveraged situation.Leverage can be measured using the debt-to-equity ratio or the debt-to-total assets ratio.Disadvantages of being overleveraged include constrained growth, loss of assets, limitations on further borrowing, and the inability to attract new investors.


   Understanding Overleveraged  

Debt is helpful when managed correctly, and many companies take on debt to grow their business, purchase necessary items, upgrade their facilities, or for many other reasons. In fact, taking on debt is sometimes preferable to other means of raising capital, for example, issuing stock. Taking on debt doesn't give up pieces of ownership of the company and outside participants aren't able to direct how the debt is used. As long as a company can manage its debt burden appropriately, debt can often help a business become successful. It is only when a company stops being able to manage its debt that it causes severe problems.



Overleveraging occurs when a business has borrowed too much money and is unable to pay interest payments, principal repayments, or maintain payments for its operating expenses due to the debt burden. Companies that borrow too much and are overleveraged are at the risk of becoming bankrupt if their business does poorly or if the market enters a downturn.



Taking on too much debt places a lot of strain on a company's finances because the cash outflows dedicated to handling the debt burden eat up a significant portion of the company's revenue. A less leveraged company can be better positioned to sustain drops in revenue because they do not have the same expensive debt-related burden on their cash flow.



Financial leverage can be measured in terms of either the debt-to-equity ratio or the debt-to-total assets ratio


   Disadvantages of Being Overleveraged  

There are many negative impacts on a company when it reaches a state of being overleveraged. The following are some of the adverse outcomes.


  Constrained Growth  

Companies borrow money for specific reasons, whether that be to expand product lines or to purchase equipment to increase sales. Loans always come with a specific time on when interest and principal payments need to be made. If a company that borrows with the expectation of increased revenues but hasn't been able to grow before the debt becomes due can find themselves in a difficult position. Having to pay back the loan without increased cash flows can be devastating and limit the ability to fund operations and invest in growth.


  Loss of Assets  

If a company is so overleveraged that it ends up in bankruptcy, its contractual obligations to banks that it borrowed from, come into play. This usually entails banks having seniority on a company's assets. Meaning that if a company cannot pay back its debt, banks are able to take ownership of a company's assets to eventually liquidate them for cash and settle the outstanding debt. In this manner, a company can lose many if not all of its assets.


  Limitations on Further Borrowing  

Before lending money, banks conduct thorough credit checks and evaluate the capacity of a company to be able to pay back its debt in a timely fashion. If a company is already overleveraged, the likelihood of a bank lending out money is very small. Banks do not want to take on the risk of possibly losing money. And if they do take on that risk, most likely the interest rate charged will be extremely high, making borrowing less than an ideal scenario for a company already struggling with its finances.


  Inability to Gain New Investors  

A company that's overleveraged will find it nearly impossible to attract new investors. Investors that provide liquidity in exchange for an equity stake will find a company that is overleveraged to be a poor investment unless they receive a large equity stake with a framework in place for recovery. Giving up large equity stakes is not ideal for a company as it loses control over the decision-making process.
What Is an Overnight Position?  

Overnight positions are open trades that have not been closed or liquidated by the end of the normal trading day.



Overnight positions are not held by day traders but are quite common in foreign exchange and futures markets. Long-term investors naturally hold overnight positions on an ongoing basis.





Key Takeaways

Overnight positions are those that have not been closed out by the end of a trading day.Overnight positions can expose an investor to the risk that new events may occur while the markets are closed.Day traders typically try to avoid holding overnight positions.In the FX SPOT markets, overnight positions are subject to rollover interest charges that are debited from or credited to the client's account.


   Understanding Overnight Positions  

Simply put, overnight positions are trading positions that are not closed by the end of the trading day. These trades are held overnight for trading the following day. Overnight positions expose the traders to risk from adverse movements that occur after normal trading closes.



This risk can be mitigated to varying degrees, depending on the markets traded. For example, in the currency market, or spot market, any contingent orders, such as stop-loss and limit orders, can be attached to the open position.



In the currency markets, overnight positions represent all open long and short positions that a forex trader possesses as of 5:00 p.m. EST, which is the end of the forex trading day.



Overnight trading refers to trades that are placed after an exchange’s close and before its open. Overnight trading hours can vary based on the type of exchange in which an investor seeks to transact.






Alternative markets may include foreign exchange trading and cryptocurrencies. Each market has standards for overnight trading that must be considered by investors when placing trades during off-market hours.


   Special Considerations  

There are benefits and drawbacks to holding an overnight position. In the forex market, 5 p.m. EST is considered the end of the trading day, although, with the advent of technology and the global nature of this arena, this market is open 24 hours a day, five days a week.



Because a new trading day begins after 5 p.m., positions opened as late as 4:59 p.m. EST and closed as early as 5:01 p.m. EST are still considered to be overnight positions. The overlap of trading hours between exchanges in North America, Australia, Asia, and European markets makes it possible for a trader to execute a foreign exchange trade through a broker-dealer at any time.



The rollover interest rate on overnight positions affects the trading account as either a credit or a debit. In forex, a rollover means that a position extends at the end of the trading day without settling. Most forex trades roll over daily until they close out or settle. The rollovers are conducted using either spot-next or tom-next transactions.



If a trader entered into a position on Monday at 4:59 p.m. EST and closes it on the same Monday at 5:03 p.m. EST, this will still be considered an overnight position, since the position was held past 5:00 p.m. EST, and is subject to rollover interest.


   Maintaining an Overnight Position  

Forex traders will generally take the risk, cost of capital, leverage changes, and strategy into account when deciding to maintain an overnight position. The goal of keeping an overnight position is to try to increase profit on the trade by holding it overnight or by minimizing the loss of a losing daytime trade.



Some stock investors believe that maintaining an overnight position is a beneficial strategy, while others think purchasing or selling stocks shortly before closing time is a more profitable move. Those who believe in keeping an overnight position often hold their positions overnight, then sell, or trade, them as close to the opening bell as possible in the morning.



By trading early, stocks and traders are fresh, and any potential negative aspects of the previous day’s market have cleared the account.






A day trader often closes all trades before the end of the trading day, so as not to hold open positions overnight.



It is rare that an overnight position can transform a daytime loss into a profit and, additionally, there is a risk with keeping an open position overnight. Primarily, the market can shift dramatically overnight, with the arrival of catastrophic news or other events that can affect the markets.



This risk is why many investors have a strict daytime trading-only policy. Borrowing costs may occur as an overnight position requires broker leverage to maintain the position.



Most companies report their financial results when markets are closed, to enable all investors to receive the information at the same time. Significant announcements may be made after market hours, rather than in the middle of the trading day and can affect overnight positions.
What Is an Overnight Index Swap?  

An index swap refers to a hedging contract in which a party exchanges a predetermined cash flow with a counter-party on a specified date. A debt, equity, or other price index is used as the agreed exchange for one side of this swap. 



An overnight index swap applies an overnight rate index such as the federal funds or London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rates. Index swaps are specialized groups of conventional fixed-rate swaps, with terms that can be set from three months to more than a year.





Key Takeaways

The interest of the overnight rate portion of the swap is compounded and paid at reset dates, with the fixed leg being accounted for in the swap's value to each party.The floating leg's present value (PV) is determined by either compounding of the overnight rate or by taking the geometric average of the rate over a given period.Like other interest rate swaps, an interest rate curve must be produced to determine the present value of cash flows.


   How Does an Overnight Index Swap Work?  

The overnight index swap denotes an interest rate swap involving the overnight rate being exchanged for a fixed interest rate. An overnight index swap uses an overnight rate index such as the federal funds rate as the underlying rate for the floating leg, while the fixed leg would be set at a rate agreed on by both parties. The interest of the overnight rate portion of the swap is compounded and paid at reset dates, with the fixed leg being accounted for in the swap's value to each party.



The floating leg's present value (PV) is determined by either compounding of the overnight rate or by taking the geometric average of the rate over a given period.



Overnight index swaps are popular among financial institutions because the overnight index is considered to be a good indicator of the interbank credit markets and less risky than traditional interest rate spreads.


   How to Calculate an Overnight Index Swap  

Eight steps are applied in calculating a bank's dollar benefit from using an overnight index swap.



The first step multiplies the overnight rate for the period in which the swap applies. If the swap begins on a Friday, the swap's period is three days because transactions don't settle on weekends. If the swap begins on another business day, the swap's period is one day. For example, if the overnight rate is 0.005% and the swap is entered on a Friday, the effective rate would be 0.015% (0.005% x 3 days), otherwise, it's 0.005%.
Step two of the calculation divides the effective overnight rate by 360. Industry practice dictates that overnight swap calculations use 360 days for a year instead of 365. Using the above rate, the calculation in step two is: 0.005% / 360 = 1.3889 x 10^-5.
For step three, simply add one to this result: 1.3889 x 10-5 + 1 = 1.000013889.
In step four, multiply the new rate by the total principal of the loan. For example, if the overnight loan has a principal of $1 million, the resulting calculation is: 1.000013889x $1,000,000 = $1,000,013.89.
Step five applies the above calculations to each day of the loan, with the principal updated continuously. This is done for multi-day loans in case the rate varies.
Steps six and seven are similar to two and three. The rate that overnight index swaps use must be divided by 360 and added to 1. For example, if this rate is 0.0053% the result is: 0.0053% / 360 + 1 = 1.00001472.
In step 8, raise this rate the power of the number of days in the loan and multiply by the principal: 1.00001472^1 x $1,000,000 = $1,000,014.72.
Lastly, subtract the two sums to identify the profit gained by the bank from using the swap: $1,000,014.72 - $1,000,013.89 = $0.83.
What Is the Overnight Rate?  

The overnight rate is the interest rate at which a depository institution (generally banks) lends or borrows funds from another depository institution in the overnight market. In many countries, the overnight rate is the interest rate the central bank sets to target monetary policy. In most circumstances, the overnight rate is the lowest available interest rate, and as such, it is only available to the most creditworthy institutions.





Key Takeaways

Overnight rates are the rates at which banks lend funds to each other at the end of the day in the overnight market.The goal of these lending activities is to ensure the maintenance of federally-mandated reserve requirements.When a bank cannot meet its reserve requirement, it will borrow from a bank that has a surplus reserve.Overnight rates are predictors of short-term interest rate movement in the broader economy and can have a domino effect on various economic indicators such as employment and inflation.The higher the overnight rate is, the more expensive it is for consumers to borrow money, as the increased cost to banks is passed onto consumers.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How the Overnight Rate Works  

The amount of money a bank has fluctuates daily based on its lending activities and its customers' withdrawal and deposit activity. A bank may experience a shortage or surplus of cash at the end of the business day.



Those banks that experience a surplus often lend money overnight to banks that experience a shortage of funds so as to maintain their reserve requirements. The requirements ensure that the banking system remains stable and liquid.



The overnight rate provides an efficient method for banks to access short-term financing from central bank depositories. As the overnight rate is influenced by the central bank of a nation, it can be used as a good predictor for the movement of short-term interest rates for consumers in the broader economy. The higher the overnight rate, the more expensive it is to borrow money.






As of May 2022, the Federal Funds rate sits at a rate of 0.77%; an increase from the previous month's rate of 0.33%.



In the United States, the overnight rate is referred to as the federal funds rate, while in Canada, it is known as the policy interest rate. The rate increases when liquidity decreases (when loans are more difficult to come by) and falls when liquidity increases (when loans are more readily available). As a result, the overnight rate is a good indicator of the health of a country's overall economy and banking system.


   Effects of the Overnight Rate  

The overnight rate indirectly affects mortgage rates in that as the overnight rate increases, it is more expensive for banks to settle their accounts, so to compensate they will raise longer-term rates.



The Federal Reserve influences the overnight rate in the United States through its open-market operations. The overnight rate, in turn, affects employment, economic growth, and inflation. This rate has been as high as 20% in the early 1980s and as low as 0% after the Great Recession of 2007-08.




Is the Bank Rate the Same as the Overnight Rate?
No, the bank rate and the overnight rate are not the same. The bank rate is also known as the discount rate, which is the rate that banks can borrow from the central bank. The overnight rate, also known as the federal funds rate, is the rate at which banks can borrow from one another.




Why Do Banks Borrow Overnight?
Banks are required by the central bank to keep a minimum amount of reserves to ensure liquidity in the banking sector. The reserves of banks fluctuate depending on customer withdrawals and deposits. When banks have a shortfall and cannot meet their reserve requirement, they will borrow from banks with a surplus to do so.




How Does the Overnight Rate Affect the Prime Rate?
When the overnight rate is increased by the central bank, it becomes more expensive for banks to borrow money from one another, increasing their total cost. To make up for this increase in costs, banks increase their prime rates, which makes borrowing money for customers more expensive. In essence, banks pass the increased cost onto the consumer.
What Is Overnight Trading?  

Overnight trading refers to trades that are placed after an exchange’s close and before its open. Overnight trading hours can vary based on the type of exchange in which an investor seeks to transact. Not all markets have overnight trading. Overnight trading is an extension of after-hours trading.





Key Takeaways

Overnight trading is trading that takes place outside of the normal trading hours provided by the primary exchange the asset is listed on.Brokers of U.S. stocks that allow overnight trading may extend their after-hours trading session all the way until the opening of the next trading day.The forex market remains largely open all week because trading is facilitated by banks and businesses around the globe. There is no formal overnight trading in the forex market because the market is always open.Bonds have extended trading hours, and overnight trading can take place in stocks between 4 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. ET (when the exchanges open), and 4 p.m. (when the exchanges close) and 8 p.m. ET.


   Understanding Overnight Trading  

Overnight trading encompasses a broad range of orders that are placed outside of standard market hours. Across the financial markets, there are various avenues for trading through a variety of exchanges. The mainstream markets include stocks and bonds. Alternative markets include foreign exchange and cryptocurrencies.



Each market has standards for overnight trading that must be considered by investors when placing trades during off-market hours. For example, some over-the-counter (OTC) products can not be traded outside of business hours. The foreign exchange (forex) market, on the other hand, does not close during the week, so there is no true overnight trading in the sense that it is open at all hours except on weekends.



Outside of normal market hours, which for the U.S. stock exchanges is usually 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. ET, liquidity is typically lower. This means fewer participants, larger bid-ask spreads, and potentially erratic price moves, and high volatility.


   Forex and Overnight Trading  

The forex market is the largest in the financial industry and is where global currencies are traded. Forex trading can be done 24 hours a day five days a week. Therefore, the forex market doesn't technically have overnight trading since it is open all the time during the week. Many day traders choose to trade currencies for this reason.



The overlap of business hours between North America, Australia, Asia, and European markets make it possible for a trader to execute a forex trade through a broker-dealer at any time.















Forex Market Hours.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   U.S. Stock Exchanges and Overnight Trading  

Stocks in the U.S. trade on primary listing exchanges between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. ET. This is when the exchange along with other networks called electronic communication networks (ECNs) facilitate trading. Trades can still be conducted on the ECNs before the primary exchanges open and after the close.






ECN trading begins at 4:00 a.m and ends at 8:00 p.m. ET. These are called the extended hours or extended trading.


   Mutual Funds and Overnight Trading  

Mutual funds are governed by a forward net asset value (NAV) pricing rule that requires all orders placed after the market’s close to receive the next day’s closing NAV price. This rule helps to ensure a smooth NAV accounting close at the end of each day for mutual funds.



Since NAVs are only calculated once per day, a mutual fund investor may see a substantial difference in the closing price from one day to the next. For mutual fund investors, this can provide a greater incentive to place a trade before the current day’s market close.



Orders can be placed outside of normal market hours, but the transactions aren't processed until a NAV value is available.


   Bond Market Overnight Trading  

Bonds also trade on exchanges throughout the day. However, they are only issued on certain exchanges, which limits their availability for trading.



Bonds trade through market makers and are listed on a variety of exchanges, including bond exchanges at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Nasdaq. On the NYSE, bonds can be traded from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. ET.


   Example of Overnight Trading in a Stock  

The following chart shows an overnight trading session in Apple Inc. stock. The Nasdaq stock exchange, on which AAPL is listed, closes at 4:00 p.m. on high volume. After-hours trading commences. Volume drops off, except for a large spike at 5:01 p.m. The price trails a bit lower from the closing price, with the last transaction occurring at 7:59 p.m.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The following day, the first trade occurs at 4:00 a.m., at a higher price than the previous night's action. Volume is relatively light in the pre-market and then escalates at the opening of the Nasdaq exchange at 9:30 a.m.



Apple has relatively active overnight trading compared to many stocks. Not all stocks have active overnight trading as in this example.
What Is an Overreaction?  

An overreaction is an extreme emotional response to new information. In finance and investing, it is an emotional response to a security such as a stock or other investment, which is led either by greed or fear. Investors overreacting to news cause the security to become either overbought or oversold until it returns to its intrinsic value.





Key Takeaways

An overreaction in financial markets is when securities become excessively overbought or oversold due to psychological reasons rather than fundamentals.Bubbles and crashes are examples of overreactions to the upside and downside, respectively.The efficient markets hypothesis precludes the occurrence of overreactions, but behavioral finance predicts that they occur—and that smart investors can take advantage of them.


   Understanding Overreactions  

Investors are not always rational. Instead of pricing all publicly known information perfectly and instantly, as the efficient market hypothesis assumes, they are often affected by cognitive and emotional biases.



Some of the most influential work in behavioral finance concerns the initial underreaction and subsequent overreaction of prices to new information. Many funds now use behavioral finance strategies to exploit these biases in their portfolios, especially in less efficient markets such as small-cap stocks.



Funds that seek to take advantage of overreactions look for companies whose shares have been depressed by bad earnings news, but where the news is likely to be temporary. Low price-to-book stocks, otherwise known as value stocks, are an example of such stocks.



In contrast to overreaction, underreaction to new information is more likely to be permanent. An underreaction is often caused by anchoring, a term that describes people's attachment to old information, which is especially strong when that information is critical to a coherent way of explaining the world (also known as a hermeneutic) held by the investor. Anchoring ideas such as "brick and mortar retail stores are dead" can cause investors to overlook undervalued stocks and miss opportunities to make a profit.


   Examples of Overreaction  

All asset bubbles are examples of overreaction, from the tulip mania in Holland in the 17th century to the meteoric rise of cryptocurrencies in 2017.



Asset bubbles form when the rising price of an asset starts to attract investors as the primary source of return, rather than the fundamental returns offered by the asset. For stocks, the "fundamental" return is the growth of the company and possibly the dividend offered by the stock.



The "fundamental return" of a tulip bulb in the 1600s was the beauty of the flower it produced, which is a difficult result to quantify. Because investors didn't have a good way to measure the desirability of the bulbs, price was used as that metric, and because the price of bulbs was always going up, it created the unfounded belief that the bulbs were intrinsically valuable—and a good investment.



Overreaction to the upside holds until the smart money begins to exit the investment, at which point the value of the security starts to fall, producing an overreaction to the downside. In the case of the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s and early 2000s, the market correction put many unprofitable businesses out of commission, but also lowered the value of good stocks to bargain levels.



Amazon.com Inc. peaked before the dotcom bubble burst at $106.70 on Dec. 10, 1999, before falling to a low of $5.97 in September of 2001, a 94% loss. In 2020, the average stock price of Amazon was $2,680.86.
What Was the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC)?  

The Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) was a U.S. development finance institution. This government agency assisted private businesses that wanted to invest abroad. OPIC encouraged development in emerging markets through private sector investment overseas by assisting corporations to analyze and manage risks while encouraging development in emerging markets. This helped the agency advance the country's foreign policy and national security goals.



OPIC was consolidated with the U.S. Agency for International Development's (USAID) Development Credit Authority to form the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation in 2019.





Key Takeaways

The Overseas Private Investment Corporation was a U.S. development finance institution.It encouraged development in emerging markets through private sector investment overseas, especially in emerging markets.The agency provided both risk insurance and loan guarantees to companies with sound business plans.OPIC supported projects that reinforced and were aligned with U.S. foreign policy, promoting the country's national security interests.The agency merged with the U.S. Agency for International Development's Development Credit Authority in 2019 to form the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation.


   Understanding the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC)  

The Overseas Private Investment Corporation was established in 1971 as a U.S. government agency under then-President Richard Nixon. It was the country's one-and-only development finance institution (DFI) and was based in Washington, D.C. DFIs are government-owned organizations that invest in private sector projects and promote national interests.



As the country's DFI, OPIC helped private sector investment abroad. OPIC-backed projects were reinforced and aligned with U.S. foreign policy. They fostered economic and political stability, along with free-market ideals, especially in conflict-ridden areas.



Its initial portfolio included political risk insurance worth $8.4 billion along with $169 million in loan guarantees. That portfolio expanded to more than $20 billion, reaching out to more than 160 different developing countries. Direct loans and guarantees ranged from a few million to $350 million for up to 20 years in underserved areas without easy access to commercial financing.



Funding was only provided to companies with a sound business model, for which it charged market-based fees. This allowed the agency to operate without the need for any taxpayer assistance. The agency reported that it actually generated money for American taxpayers, contributing as much as $3.7 billion toward reducing the national deficit between 2006 and 2016.






According to OPIC's operating statute, the projects it helped could not cause job loss in the United States.


   Special Considerations  

As mentioned above, OPIC was consolidated with USAID’s Development Credit Authority to form the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) in 2019. The merger was realized after the passing of the Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development Act was passed on Oct. 5, 2018. The new entity allows the use of newer and more innovative financial products to help distribute private capital to developing economies.



Just like its predecessor, DFC aims to advance the interests of American foreign policy and national security as the private sector helps the development of emerging market economies. It accomplishes this through political risk insurance and debt financing, comprising of direct loans and guarantees of up to $1 billion for up to 25 years. It also provides:



Support for equity investment and investment funds
Feasibility studies
Technical assistance



The DFC allows private sector investment in several sectors, including energy, health care, critical infrastructure, technology. Businesses are required to meet specific standards and have an established history in their specific industries.
What Is Overshooting?  

In economics, overshooting, also known as the exchange rate overshooting hypothesis, is a way to think about and explain high levels of volatility in currency exchange rates using the concept of price stickiness.





Key Takeaways

The overshooting model establishes a relationship between sticky prices and volatile exchange rates.The model's main thesis is that prices of goods in an economy do not immediately react to a change in foreign exchange rates.Instead, a domino effect first impacts other factors—such as financial markets, money markets, derivatives markets, and bond markets—which then transfers its influence onto the prices of goods.


   Understanding Overshooting  

Overshooting was introduced to the world by Rüdiger Dornbusch, a renowned German economist focusing on international economics, including monetary policy, macroeconomic development, growth, and international trade. Dornbusch first introduced the model, now widely known as the Dornbusch Overshooting Model, in the famous paper "Expectations and Exchange Rate Dynamics," which was published in 1976 in the Journal of Political Economy.



Before Dornbusch, economists generally believed that markets should, ideally, arrive at equilibrium and stay there. Some economists had argued that volatility was purely the result of speculators and inefficiencies in the foreign exchange market, such as asymmetric information or adjustment obstacles.



Dornbusch rejected this view. Instead, he argued that volatility was more fundamental to the market than this, much closer to inherent in the market than to being simply and exclusively the result of inefficiencies. More basically, Dornbusch was arguing that in the short run, equilibrium is reached in the financial markets, and in the long run, the price of goods responds to these changes in the financial markets. 


  The Overshooting Model  

The overshooting model argues that the foreign exchange rate will temporarily overreact to changes in monetary policy to compensate for sticky prices of goods in the economy. This means that, in the short run, the equilibrium level will be reached through shifts in financial market prices, rather than through shifts in the prices of goods themselves. Gradually, as the prices of goods unstick and adjust to the reality of these financial market prices, the financial market, including the foreign exchange market, also adjusts to this financial reality.



So, initially, foreign exchange markets overreact to changes in monetary policy, which creates equilibrium in the short term. Then, as the prices of goods gradually respond to these financial market prices, the foreign exchange markets temper their reaction and create long-term equilibrium. Thus, there will be more volatility in the exchange rate due to overshooting and subsequent corrections than would otherwise be expected. 


   Special Considerations  

Although Dornbusch's model was compelling, initially it was also regarded as somewhat radical due to its assumption of sticky prices. Today, sticky prices are accepted as fitting with empirical economic observations, and Dornbusch's Overshooting Model is widely regarded as the forerunner to modern international economics. In fact, some have said it "marks the birth of modern international macroeconomics."



The overshooting model is considered especially significant because it explained exchange rate volatility during a time when the world was moving from fixed to floating rate exchanges. Kenneth Rogoff, during his stint as economic counselor and director of the research department at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), said Dornbusch's paper imposed "rational expectations" on private actors about exchange rates. "Rational expectations is a way of imposing overall consistency on one's theoretical analysis," Rogoff wrote on the paper's 25th anniversary.
What Is Oversold?  

The term oversold refers to a condition where an asset has traded lower in price and has the potential for a price bounce. An oversold condition can last for a long time, and therefore being oversold doesn't mean a price rally will come soon, or at all. Many technical indicators identify oversold and overbought levels. These indicators base their assessment on where the price is currently trading relative to prior prices. Fundamentals can also be used to assess whether an asset is potentially oversold and has deviated from its typical value metrics.





Key Takeaways

Oversold is a subjective term. Since traders and analysts all use different tools, some may see an oversold asset while others see an asset that has further to fall.Oversold conditions can last for a long time, so prudent traders wait for the price to base out and start to move higher before buying.Oversold conditions are identified by technical indicators such as the relative strength index (RSI) and stochastic oscillator, as well as others.Fundamentals can also highlight an oversold asset by comparing current values to prior values in terms of price/earnings (P/E) and forward P/E, for example.


   What Does Oversold Tell You?  

Oversold to a fundamental trader means an asset it trading well below its typical value metrics. Technical analysts are typically referring to an indicator reading when they mention oversold. Both are valid approaches, although the two groups are using different tools to determine whether an asset is oversold.


  Fundamentally Oversold  

Fundamentally oversold stocks (or any asset) are those that investors feel are trading below their true value. This could be the result of bad news regarding the company in question, a poor outlook for the company going forward, an out of favor industry, or a sagging overall market.



Traditionally, a common indicator of a stock’s value has been the P/E ratio. Analysts and traders use publicly reported financial results or earnings estimates to identify the appropriate price for a particular stock. If a stock’s P/E dips to the bottom of its historic range, or falls below the average P/E of the sector, investors may see the stock as undervalued. This may present a buying opportunity for long-term investing.



For example, a stock that has historically had a P/E of 10 to 15, and which is now trading at a P/E of five may signal investors to look closer at the company. If the company is still strong the stock may be oversold and a good buy candidate. Careful analysis is needed though, as there could be good reasons why investors no longer like the company as much as they once did.


  Technically Oversold  

Traders can also use technical indicators to establish oversold levels. A technical indicator only looks at the current price relative to prior prices. It does not take into account fundamental data.



George Lane’s stochastic oscillator, which he developed in the 1950s, examines recent price movements to identify changes in a stock’s momentum and price direction. The RSI measures the power behind price movements over a recent period, typically 14 days.



A low RSI, generally below 30, signals traders that a stock may be oversold. Essentially the indicator is saying that the price is trading in the lower third of its recent price range. This isn't to say the price will bounce immediately. Many traders wait for the indicator to start heading higher before buying since oversold conditions can last a long time. For example, a trader may wait for the oversold RSI to move back above 30 before buying. This shows that the price was oversold but is now starting to rise.



Some traders use pricing channels like Bollinger Bands to spot oversold areas. On a chart, Bollinger Bands are positioned at a multiple of a stock's standard deviation above and below an exponential moving average. When the price reaches the lower band, it may be oversold. Once again, traders typically wait until the price starts rising again before buying.


   Examples of Oversold Indicators and Fundamentals  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart example shows a price chart with two indicators below it. Top indicator is an RSI, and the one below it is P/E.



On the RSI, arrows have been placed where the RSI dropped below 30 and then moved back above it. These would be possible buy points based on recovery from an oversold condition. Some of these signals resulted in the price going higher, while others saw the price continue lower for a time.



The oversold level of the P/E will vary by stock, since each stock has its own P/E range it tends to travel in. For this stock, buying near a P/E of 10 typically presented a good buying opportunity as the price headed higher from there.


   The Difference Between Oversold and Overbought  

If oversold is when an asset is trading in the lower portion of its recent price range or is trading near lows based on fundamental data, then overbought is the opposite. An overbought technical indicator reading appears when the price of an asset is trading in the upper portion of its recent price range. Similarly, an overbought fundamental reading appears when the asset is trading at the high end of its fundamental ratios. This doesn't mean the asset should be sold. It is just an alert to look into what is going on.


   Limitations of Using Oversold Readings  

Oversold is mistakenly viewed by some traders as a buy signal. Instead, it is more of an alert. It lets traders know that an asset is trading in the lower portion of its recent price range, or is trading at a lower fundamental ratio than it typically does. This doesn't mean the asset should be bought. Many stocks that continue to fall look cheap all the way down. This can happen because most oversold readings are based on past performance. If investors see a grim future for a stock or other asset, it may continue to be sold off even though it looks cheap based on historical standards.



Even if a stock or other asset is a good buy, it can remain oversold for a long time before the price starts to move higher. This is why many traders watch for oversold readings, but then wait for the price to start moving up before buying based on the oversold signal.
What Is Oversubscribed?  

Oversubscribed is a term used when the demand for a new issue of stock is greater than the number of shares available. When a new issue is oversubscribed, underwriters or other financial entities offering the security can adjust the price upward or offer more securities to reflect the higher-than-anticipated demand.



An oversubscribed issue can be contrasted with an undersubscribed issue, where demand cannot fully meet the available supply of shares.





Key Takeaways

Oversubscribed refers to an issue of stock shares in which the demand exceeds the available supply.An oversubscribed IPO indicates that investors are eager to buy the company's shares, leading to a higher price and/or more shares offered for sale.An oversubscribed issue does not always mean the market will support the higher price for long, as the demand must eventually reconcile with the security's underlying company fundamentals.


   Understanding Oversubscribed Issues  

An oversubscribed security offering often occurs when the interest for it far exceeds the available supply of the issue. Over-subscription can happen in any market where the available supply of new securities is limited, but is most often associated with the sale of newly minted shares in the secondary market via an initial public offering (IPO). Here, the demand exceeds the total number of shares issued by the IPO'ing company. The degree of oversubscription is shown as a multiple, such as "ABC IPO oversubscribed two times." A two-times multiple means there is effectively twice as much demand for shares as there are available in the scheduled issue.



Share prices are intentionally set at a level that will ideally sell all shares. The underwriters of an IPO generally do not want to be left with unpurchased shares in an undersubscribed issue.






When a broker/dealer or market maker has to purchase shares because there are not enough buyers, it is known as eating stock.



If there is more demand for an IPO than there is supply (creating a shortage), a higher price can be charged for the securities resulting in more capital raised for the issuer, which also means more fees earned for the underwriter.



However, oversubscribed IPO shares are often underpriced to some extent to allow for a post-IPO pop and robust trading to continue to generate excitement around the issue. Companies leave a bit of capital on the table, but may still please the internal stockholders by giving them a paper gain even if they are stuck in a lock-up period.


   Benefits and Costs of Oversubscribed Securities  

When securities are oversubscribed, companies can offer more of the securities, raise the price of the security, or partake in some combination of the two to meet demand and raise more capital in the process. This means that they can raise more capital and at better terms.



Companies will almost always hold back a significant portion of their shares to allow for future capital needs and management incentives, so there is usually a standing reserve of shares that can be added if an IPO is looking to be badly oversubscribed without having to register new securities with regulators.



More capital is good for a company, of course. Investors, however, have to pay higher prices and may get priced out of the issue if the price rises above their willingness to pay. It may also hurt investors who herd into a hot IPO that drives the initial market price far above fundamentals, only to see a collapse in price over the following weeks and months.


   Example of an Oversubscribed IPO  

In early 2012, analysts indicated that the long-awaited IPO of Facebook (now Meta), which initially sought to raise about $10.6 billion by selling around 337 million shares at $28 to $35 per share, would generate far more interest from investors such that it might quickly become an oversubscribed IPO. As predicted, investor interest leading up to the IPO on May 18, 2012, produced far more demand for Facebook shares than the company was offering.



To take advantage of the oversubscribed IPO and fulfill that surge in investor demand, Facebook (META) provided not only more shares (421 million versus 337 million, or 25% more shares) to investors, but also raised the IPO price range to $34 to $38 per share, around a 15% increase in price. In effect, Facebook and its underwriters raised both the supply and price of shares to meet demand and diminish the securities oversubscription for a net increase in value of around 40% from the initial IPO terms. As a result, Facebook raised more capital and carried a higher valuation, but investors got the shares that they wanted.



However, it quickly became clear that Facebook was not at first worth the new IPO price, as the stock fell precipitously in its first four months of trading. The stock failed to trade above its IPO price until July 31, 2013. Of course, in the years since, the stock has performed quite well.
What is an Oversubscription Privilege  

An oversubscription privilege gets extended to a company’s shareholders on the issuance of a rights or warrants offering. The privilege allows shareholders to purchase any shares remaining after other shareholders have had an opportunity to purchase them.


   BREAKING DOWN Oversubscription Privilege  

Oversubscription privileges apply to existing shareholders. In a rights offering, a firm generally offers its existing shareholders the right to purchase a specific number shares at a discount to the current share price within a given time period. Since companies issue shares to raise money and a failure to sell all new shares in an issuance could leave a firm undercapitalized, rights issues sometimes use a form of contingency plan to deal with shareholders who decide not to exercise their right to purchase new shares. Oversubscription privileges allow shareholders additional rights to purchase a specified proportion of the unexercised shares.



Oversubscription generally describes a situation in which demand outstrips the supply of shares in a new issuance. In the case of oversubscription privileges, companies presume the oversubscription will occur among the pool of shareholders willing to exercise their right to purchase new shares. In many cases, this demand stems from shareholders’ desire to maintain their proportional ownership of a firm’s shares along with the voting rights that accompany them. Rights offerings account for this by issuing rights and oversubscription privileges in proportion to shareholders’ current holdings.


   Shareholder Choices During Rights Issues  

Companies use rights issues to raise cash from existing shareholders, often to pay off existing debts, make a one-time large-scale capital purchase or solve a cash flow issue. A new share issuance causes dilution, since the larger number of shares available overall decreases the value of any given share as a proportion of the whole. Current shareholders seeking to maintain their proportional holdings need to purchase a number of new shares equal to the proportion of shares they own. In addition, however, shareholders need to consider the potential loss of value in their current holdings when deciding whether the discounted price offered for new shares makes sense.



Investors should also investigate the reasons behind a rights issuance before exercising those rights. Rights issuances can be a sign of financial trouble, especially when companies find themselves unable to pay down existing debt. However, rights offerings do not always indicate a troubled company. Wise investors will research the situation to ensure they have a full picture of the benefits and risks involved in purchasing the discounted shares offered in a rights issuance.



In general, shareholders offered a rights issuance have three choices: they can exercise their rights, ignore their rights and take a hit from dilution, or, in some cases, sell the rights to other shareholders or back to an underwriter.
What Is Oversupply?  

Oversupply is an excessive amount of a product that is the result of when demand is lower than supply, resulting in a surplus. 





Key Takeaways

Oversupply is a situation where there is more product on the market than consumers want to buy.In commodities, an oversupply is a period when over production of a commodity pushes the price for that commodity down to a level where the producers are losing money.Oversupply tends to be corrected through reduced production or discounting, but the time period over which this happens can be longer or shorter depending on the dynamics of the market. Oversupply can persist longer when prices and quantities are less flexible due to market conditions or government price controls. 


   Understanding Oversupply  

Simply put, an oversupply is when there is more product for sale than people are prepared to buy at the current price. Although the context can vary, oversupply results from overproduction and leads to the accumulation of unsalable inventories. Price levels and oversupply are strongly correlated.



There are many reasons why oversupply may occur. There can be an oversupply of a current product due to people waiting for an improved model in a series, such as smartphones from a particular maker. Oversupply can also occur in situations where the price of the good or service is too high and people are simply not willing to buy it at that price. An oversupply may also simply be a case of a producer completely misreading the market demand for a product. Surplus is a synonym for oversupply.



When a price is too high, the quantity demanded will be less than the quantity supplied and the unsold quantity will increase unless the producer discounts the good or halts production. Discounting product is the most obvious way to deal with an oversupply, and it is often the only way to clear unsold inventory, especially if new product is on its way. Discounting does impact the bottom line of the seller and the producer may have to agree to share that pain with the seller.



In commodity markets, oversupply is more of a market condition than a problem to be solved. For commodities like oil, natural gas, precious metals, meat, and so on, the production timeline requires a significant lead time and the prices are all market-based. If, for example, a number of large scale gas fields begin production at the same time, there will be an oversupply of natural gas on the market leading to a lower price. During periods of oversupply, producers may actually lose money on the units they are selling.



The interesting thing about some types of commodity oversupply is that it is not a matter of unsold inventory, but how much of the commodity can be stored and stockpiled before it eventually sells at whatever price the market will pay. Because production cannot be easily dialed up and down, commodity producers depend on storage to help remove oversupply from the market while production cycles adjust to the lowered longer-term demand. Of course, if too much production is curtailed, then the market will be undersupplied and more investment will flow into the production side. This is one of the many reasons that many commodities have cyclical boom and bust pricing charts.


   Oversupply Example  

Oversupply and its impact on market equilibrium is best understood through an example. Suppose the price of a computer is $600 at a volume of 1,000 units, but buyers demand only 300 units at that price. In such a situation, sellers are seeking to sell 700 more computers than buyers are willing to purchase.



The oversupply of 700 units puts the market for computers in disequilibrium. Since they're not able to sell all the computers for the desired price of $600, sellers consider a price reduction to make the product more attractive to buyers. In response to the reduction in the price of the product, consumers demand more computers and producers cut production. Eventually, the market will achieve equilibrium price and quantity, absent the introduction of other external factors.



This process may happen quickly for some goods, when the prices and quantities that can be offered on the market are relatively flexible. the longer it take prices and quantities to adjust on the market, the longer the oversupply will persist. When prices are sticky, due to menu costs or other issues, or when the government intervenes to set a price floor, then an oversupply of a goods can persist or some time.
What Is Overtrading?  

Overtrading refers to the excessive buying and selling of stocks by either a broker or an individual trader. Both are entirely different situations and have very different implications.





Key Takeaways

Overtrading is a prohibited practice when brokers trade excessively for their client accounts in order to generate commission fees.Individual professional traders may also overtrade, but this type of activity is not regulated by the SEC.Individuals can greatly reduce the risk of overtrading by following best practices such as self-awareness and risk management.


   Understanding Overtrading  

An individual trader, whether working for themselves or employed on a trading desk by a financial firm, will have rules about how much risk they can take (including how many trades are appropriate for them to make). Once they have reached this limit, to continue trading is to do so unsoundly. While such behavior may be bad for the trader or bad for the firm, it is not regulated in any way by outside entities.



However, a broker overtrades when they excessively buy and sell stocks on the investor’s behalf purely for the sake of generating commissions. Overtrading, also known as churning, is a prohibited practice under securities law. Investors can observe that their broker has been overtrading when the frequency of their trades becomes counterproductive to their investment objectives, driving commission costs consistently higher without observable results over time.



Overtrading can occur for a number of reasons, but they all have the same outcome: poor performance of the investments at the expense of increased broker fees. One reason this practice has been known to occur comes about when brokers are pressured to place newly issued securities underwritten by a firm's investment banking arm.



For example, each broker may receive a 10% bonus if they can secure a certain allotment of a new security to their customers. Such incentives may not have the investors' best interest in mind. Investors can protect themselves from overtrading (or churning) through a wrap account—a type of account managed for a flat rate, rather than charging a commission on every transaction.



Individual traders usually overtrade after they have suffered a significant loss or a number of smaller losses in a long losing streak. To recoup their capital, or to seek “revenge” on the market after a string of losing trades, they may try harder to make up profits wherever they can, usually by increasing the size and frequency of their trades. While this practice often results in poor performance of the trader, the SEC does not regulate this kind of behavior because it is being done on the trader's own account.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) defines overtrading (churning) as excessive buying and selling in a customer’s account that the broker controls to generate increased commissions. Brokers who overtrade may be in breach of SEC Rule 15c1-7 that governs manipulative and deceptive conduct.



The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) governs overtrading under rule 2111 and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) prohibits the practice under Rule 408(c). Investors who believe they are a victim of churning can file a complaint with either the SEC or FINRA.


   Types of Overtrading Among Investors  

Overtrading in one's own account can only be curtailed by self-regulation. Below are some common forms of overtrading that investors may engage in, and begin informed about each can lead to better self-awareness.



Discretionary Overtrading: The discretionary trader uses flexible position sizes and leverage and does not establish rules for changing size. Although such flexibility can have its advantages, more often than not, it proves to be the trader's downfall.
Technical Overtrading: Traders new to technical indicators often use them as justification for making a predetermined trade. They have already decided what position to take and then look for indicators that will back up their decision, allowing them to feel more comfortable. They then develop rules, learn more indicators, and devise a system. This behavior is classified as confirmation bias and usually leads to systemic losses over time.
Shotgun Overtrading: Craving action, traders often develop a "shotgun blast" approach, buying anything and everything they think might be good. A telltale sign of shotgun overtrading is multiple small positions open concurrently, none of which the trader has a specific plan for. But an even more firm diagnosis can be made by reviewing trade history and then asking why a particular trade was made at the time. A shotgun trader will struggle to provide a specific answer to that question.


   Preventing Overtrading  

There are a few steps traders can take to help prevent overtrading:



Exercise self-awareness: Investors who are aware they may be overtrading can take actions to prevent it from occurring. Frequent assessments of trading activity can reveal patterns that suggest an investor may be overtrading. For instance, a progressive increase in the number of trades each month may be a telltale sign of the problem.
Take a break: Overtrading may be caused by investors feeling as though they have to make a trade. This often results in less-than-optimal trades being taken that result in a loss. Taking time off from trading allows investors to reassess their trading strategies and ensure they fit their overall investment objectives.
Create rules: Adding rules to enter a trade can prevent investors from placing orders that deviate from their trading plan. Rules could be created using technical or fundamental analysis, or a combination of both. For example, an investor might introduce a rule that only allows them to take a trade if the 50-day moving average has recently crossed above the 200-day moving average and the stock pays a yield greater than 3%.
Be committed to risk management: traders who exercise strict position size management tend to outperform those who don't regardless of the systems or time frames being traded. Managing risk on individual trade will also diffuse the likelihood of a large drawdown, in turn reducing the psychological pitfalls that come from such circumstances.
What Is "Overvalued"?  

An overvalued stock has a current price that is not justified by its earnings outlook, known as profit projections, or its price-earnings (P/E) ratio. Consequently, analysts and other economic experts expect the price to drop eventually.





Key Takeaways:


An overvalued stock has a current price that is not justified by its earnings outlook, typically assessed by its P/E ratio.
A company is considered overvalued if it trades at a rate that is unjustifiably and significantly in excess of its peers.
Overvalued stocks are sought by investors looking to short positions and capitalize on anticipated price declines.




Overvaluation may result from an uptick in emotional trading, or illogical, gut-driven decision making that artificially inflates the stock's market price. Overvaluation can also occur due to deterioration in a company's fundamentals and financial strength. Potential investors strive to avoid overpaying for stocks.






The most popular valuation metric for publicly traded companies is the P/E ratio, which analyzes a company's stock price relative to its earnings. An overvalued company trades at an unjustifiably rich level compared to its peers.


   Understanding Overvalued Stocks  

A small group of market theorists believes that the market is perfectly efficient, by nature. They opine that fundamental analysis of a stock is a pointless exercise because the stock market is all-knowing. Therefore, stocks may neither be truly undervalued or overvalued. Contrarily, fundamental analysts are staunch in their belief that there are always opportunities to ferret out undervalued and overvalued stocks because the market is as irrational as its participants.



Overvalued stocks are ideal for investors looking to short a position. This entails selling shares to capitalize on an anticipated price declines. Investors may also legitimately trade overvalued stocks at a premium due to the brand, superior management, or other factors that increase the value of one company's earnings over another.


   How to Find Overvalued Stocks  

Relative earnings analysis is the most common way to identify an overvalued stock. This metric compares earnings to some comparable market value, such as price. The most popular comparison is the P/E ratio, which analyzes a company's stock price relative to its earnings.



Analysts looking for stocks to short may seek overvalued companies with high P/E ratios, particularly when compared to other companies in the same sector or peer group. For example, assume a company has a stock price of $100 and earnings per share of $2. The calculation of its P/E ratio is determined by dividing the price by the earnings ($100/$2 = 50). So, in this example, the security is trading at 50 times earnings.



If that same company has a banner year and makes $10 in EPS, the new P/E ratio is $100 divided by $10, or 10 times ($100/$10 = 10). Most people would consider the company to be overvalued at a P/E of 50, but possibly undervalued at 10.


   Real World Example  

Although by definition, a stock is overvalued only by the opinion of an analyst, The Motley Fool website is never shy about weighing in. For example, they deemed the pharma giant Ely Lilly to be overvalued because the company's valuation reached "untenable levels following the company's meteoric rise during the tail end of 2019 and early days of 2020."



According to The Motley Fool, in January 2020, the company's stock was the second most expensive among its industry peers and Eli Lilly might find it hard to deliver consistent expected growth.
What Is Overweight?  

An overweight investment is an asset or industry sector that comprises a higher-than-normal percentage of a portfolio or an index. An investor might choose to devote a greater portion of the portfolio to a sector that seems particularly promising, or an investor might go overweight on defensive stocks and bonds at a time when prices are volatile.



Overweight and its opposite, underweight, are also used by analysts and commentators in recommendations to buy or avoid particular investments or sectors. For example, if federal defense spending is about to be increased or decreased, an analyst may recommend that an investor go overweight or underweight on defense-related companies.



In addition, many analysts attach an overweight recommendation to a stock that they believe will outperform its sector in the coming months. The alternative ratings are equal weight (for average performers) or underweight (for below-average performers).





Key Takeaways

Overweight is an outsized investment in a particular asset, asset type, or sector within a portfolio.Overweight, rather than equal weight or underweight, also reflects an analyst's opinion that a particular stock will outperform its sector average over the next eight to 12 months.Portfolio managers may overweight a stock or a sector if they think they will perform well and boost overall returns.


   Understanding Overweight  

Strictly speaking, overweight refers to an excess amount of an asset in a fund or investment portfolio compared to the benchmark index that it tracks.



Indexes are weighted. That is, they track the performance of a selection of stocks, each of which represents a percentage of the index that varies according to its perceived impact on the whole.



Mutual funds also are weighted, and some percentage of the fund may be devoted to cash or to interest-bearing bonds in order to reduce overall risk. This is why the performances even of index mutual funds may vary fractionally from each other and from the index itself.



The fund manager's goal is to meet or exceed the index that it is compared to. That may be achieved by overweighting or underweighting some parts of the whole.


   Beating the Trend  

Otherwise, there is no firm definition of overweight. It is simply a variation from the norm, whatever that might be. For example, the manager of a global technology mutual fund who foresees a downturn ahead might shift some assets, going overweight on some of the stablest blue-chip companies out there. An investor with a diversified portfolio who foresees a downturn might go overweight on interest-bearing bonds and dividend-paying stocks.



Overweight can also refer—in a looser sense—to an analyst's opinion that a stock will outperform others in its sector or the market. In this sense, it is a buy recommendation. When an analyst suggests underweighting an asset, they are saying it looks less attractive for now than other investment options.


   Bucking the Norm  

Portfolio managers seek to create a balanced portfolio for each investor and personalize it for that individual's risk tolerance. A younger investor with a moderate appetite for risk, for example, might be best served by a portfolio that is 60% in stocks and 40% in bonds. If the same investor then opts to move 15% more of the balance into stocks, the portfolio would be classified as overweight stocks.



A portfolio can be overweight in a sector, such as energy, or in a specific country. It may be overweight in a category, such as aggressive growth stocks or high-dividend-yielding stocks. In this context, the term overweight usually implies that the portfolio is being compared to a predefined standard or a benchmark index.


   Overweighting Pros and Cons  

Actively managed funds or portfolios will take an overweight position in particular securities if doing so helps them to achieve greater returns. For example, the fund manager may raise a security's weight from its normal 15% of the portfolio to 25%, in an attempt to increase the returns of the overall portfolio.



Another reason for overweighting a portfolio holding is to hedge or reduce the risk from another overweight position. Hedging involves taking an offsetting or opposite position to the related security. The most common method of hedging is through the derivative market.



For example, if you hold shares of a company currently selling at $20 per share, you may purchase a one-year expiration put option for that stock at $10. A year later, if the stock is selling at more than $10 you let the put expire, losing only the price of the purchase. Should the stock be selling for under $10, you may exercise the put and receive $10 for your shares.



The danger of overweighting one investment is that it can reduce the overall diversification of their portfolio. A reduction in diversification can expose the holding to additional market risk.





Pros

May increase portfolio gains, returns
Hedges against other overweight positions



Cons

Reduces portfolio diversification
Exposes portfolio to more risk overall





  Use of Overweight in Ratings and Recommendations  

When research or investment analysts designate a stock overweight, it reflects an opinion that the security will outperform its industry, its sector, or the entire market.



An analyst's rating of overweight for a retail stock would suggest that the stock will perform above the average return of the retail industry overall over the next eight to 12 months.



The alternative weighting recommendations are equal weight or underweight. Equal weight implies that the security is expected to perform in line with the index, while underweight implies that the security is expected to lag the index in question.
What Is Overwriting?  

Overwriting is a trading strategy that involves selling options that are believed to be overpriced, with the assumption that the options won't get exercised before they expire.





Key Takeaways

Overwriting is a strategy to sell (write) options that are overpriced under the assumption that the options won't get exercised.Overwriting is used to generate extra income, especially with options written on dividend-paying stocks.Overwriting is considered risky and should only be attempted by investors who have a comprehensive understanding of options and options strategies.


   How Overwriting Works  

Overwriting is a speculative strategy that some option writers may employ to collect a premium even when they believe the underlying security is incorrectly valued, hoping that they do not get assigned the short options. Investors may also refer to the strategy as "overriding."



The writer (seller) of an option has an obligation to deliver their shares to the buyer if the buyer decides to exercise the option, while the holder/buyer of an option has the right but not the obligation to purchase the seller's shares at a specific price within a specified time. Overwriting is a technique used by speculative option writers in an attempt to profit from the premiums paid by option buyers for option contracts the writer hopes will expire without being exercised. Overwriting is considered risky and should only be attempted by investors who have a comprehensive understanding of options and options strategies.



Overwriting can help investors who hold a dividend-paying stock to increase their income by collecting the premium they receive from writing an option against the stock they own. For example, if they currently receive a 3% dividend yield, they could increase that yield to effectively more than 10% by overwriting. The strategy is most effective when stock prices have had a sharp decline and premiums get overvalued, as the higher premiums help offset possible further losses.



The downside risk to overwriting is that if the stock’s price rises sharply, the seller loses any profit they would have made above the options strike price. To combat this, the seller may want to buy the option back, although they would most likely need to repurchase it at a higher price than what they sold it for.


   Overwriting Example  

Suppose an investor holds a stock that is trading at $50. They decide to write a $60 call option against it that expires in three months and they receive a $5 premium. The buyer will likely exercise the call option if the stock is trading above $60 before the expiry date, which limits the seller's profit to $15 a share (the difference between $50 and $60, plus the $5 premium) on an asset that may continue to rise in value. This is why the seller hopes that the call option will expire worthless—they get to keep the premium already collected AND continue to hold an asset that is on the rise. If the stock declines, the $5 premium the seller received helps to partially offset any loss incurred.
What is an Own-Occupation Policy?  

An own-occupation insurance policy covers individuals who become disabled and are unable to perform the majority of the occupational duties that they have been trained to perform. This type of insurance policy is contingent on the individual being employed at the time the disability occurs. Own-occupation insurance policies are also known as a "pure own-occupational policy" and "own-occupation disability insurance" in some circles. Doctors will often purchase these policies for protection against injuries.


   How Own-Occupation Policy Works  

When an own-occupation policy goes into effect, the policyholder and the insurance carrier sign a contract that says the insurance carrier will pay the policyholder a monthly benefit if they become disabled. But what determines a disability?





Key Takeways

An own-occupation insurance policy offers coverage to individuals who are injured and unable to perform the duties of their occupation. A policyholder can receive benefits if you are unable to work in your "own occupation," but allow you to seek employment elsewhere. Doctors frequently purchase own-occupation policies.



The key factor in an own-occupation policy is how "disabled" is defined in an insurance contract. Because the definition of own-occupation is very flexible, persons covered under an own-occupation policy may find another job and still receive full benefit payments.



Under the own-occupation disability insurance definition, a policyholder will receive benefits if you are unable to work in your “own occupation,” regardless of whether you find employment in another profession. This language will typically look something like this: "You will be considered disabled if you are unable to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation, even if you are gainfully employed in another occupation."






The definition of own-occupation depends on an important aspect of an insurance policy, namely how the insurance contract defines "disabled" as a status.



Sometimes, if a person isn't working at the time they are disabled, they will not be able to claim insurance under a conventional own-occupation policy. However, if they are covered under a modified own-occupational policy, they will be covered. Under a modified policy, the definition of "disabled" includes persons not working at the time of their disablement. These types of insurance policies apply to highly trained individuals, such as surgeons.


   Example of an Own-Occupation Policy  

Consider Mark, a surgeon who loves to do home improvement projects when he's not in the operating room. One weekend, Mark’s hand slips on a saw, and his finger has to be amputated. Mark won't be able to do surgery anymore but may be able to work in another medical specialty or even a profession outside the medical profession.



Under the own-occupation insurance definition, Mark cannot perform the substantial duties of his occupation as a surgeon. If Mark had an own-occupation disability insurance policy, he would receive full benefits, regardless of whether he chooses to work in another medical specialty or another profession altogether. This is why own-occupation policies provide the most flexibility for policyholders and are critically important for doctors to have.
What Is Owner Earnings Run Rate?  

Owner earnings run rate is an extrapolated estimate of an owner's earnings (free cash flow) over a defined period of time — typically a year. 





Key Takeaways

Owner earnings run rate is an extrapolated estimate of an owner's earnings (free cash flow) over a defined period of time—typically a year. It tells us the actual dollar value a company is expected to produce and have available to spend, using current financial data.Owner earnings run rate assumes that a company’s financials stay consistent, though, so it cannot be applied to businesses with lumpy revenue streams.


   Understanding Owner Earnings Run Rate  

Owner earnings run rate is a term made up of two separate components: owner earnings and run rate. To understand how it works, it is first necessary to get to the bottom of what each of them mean.


  Run Rate  

The run rate is a method for forecasting the future financial performance of a company based on past data. Let’s say a company records revenue of $100 million in its last quarter. Using this information as a predictor of future performance, we could say that it is expected to register sales of $400 million for the year—or is operating at a $400 million run rate. 


  Owner Earnings  

Then there’s owner earnings: a valuation method favored by investment guru Warren Buffett. Net income (NI) gets a lot of attention from investors, yet does not always fully reflect the actual dollar amount that a business has in its coffers to distribute to owners and boost shareholder value.



That’s what owner earnings sets out to achieve. Buffett stated that the value of a company is simply the total of the net cash flows (owner earnings) expected to occur over the life of the business, minus any reinvestment of earnings. In a 1986 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Shareholder Letter, Buffett gave some insight into owner earnings and how it should be calculated:﻿﻿﻿



"If we think through these questions, we can gain some insights about what may be called 'owner earnings.' These represent (a) reported earnings plus (b) depreciation, depletion, amortization, and certain other non-cash charges such as Company N's items (1) and (4) less the average annual amount of capitalized expenditures for plant and equipment, etc. that the business requires to fully maintain its long-term competitive position and its unit volume. (If the business requires additional working capital to maintain its competitive position and unit volume, the increment also should be included in (c). However, businesses following the LIFO inventory method usually do not require additional working capital if unit volume does not change.)"



In other words, owner earnings = reported earnings + depreciation, amortization +/- other non-cash charges – average annual maintenance capex +/- changes in working capital. What the resulting figure aims to tell us is the amount of value the company is creating and how much is flowing back to shareholders. Often, it ends up similar to free cash flow (FCF): the cash a company generates after accounting for cash outflows to support operations and maintain its capital assets. 


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Owner Earnings Run Rate  

Owner earnings is an important metric that investors can use to gauge a company’s financial health. Increased owner earnings tend to act as a signal that a company's subsequent earnings will be good. Therefore, assessing an accurate owner earnings run rate could be very important in predicting the company's longer-term performance.



The problem is that the owner earnings run rate is not always reliable, namely because it takes for granted that the company’s financial performance stays consistent throughout the period. For example, let’s say that after three quarters a company posts owner earnings of $9 million. Assuming that performance stays consistent, the company's owner earnings run rate for the fiscal year (FY) would be $12 million ($3 million per quarter).



This estimate can be difficult to assess if the company is operating in an industry that experiences seasonality. In such cases, owner earnings from one period may not be applicable across the entire time period.





Important

The owner earnings run rate is flawed when applied to companies whose financial performance fluctuates from quarter to quarter.



Run rates do not account for higher sales linked to a new product release, a common occurrence among many technology firms, or large, one-time sales, either.
What Is Owner Financing?  

Owner financing is a transaction in which a property's seller finances the purchase directly with the person or entity buying it, either in whole or in part. This type of arrangement can be advantageous for both sellers and buyers because it eliminates the costs of a bank intermediary. Owner financing can create much greater risk and responsibilities for the owner, however.





Key Takeaways

Owner financing is sometimes referred to as “creative financing” or “seller financing.” Typically, this type of financing is disclosed in the advertising of a property when owner financing is an option.Owner financing requires that the seller take on the default risk of the buyer, but owners are often more willing to negotiate than traditional lenders.Owner financing can provide extra income to the seller in the form of interest.Sometimes, owner financing is known to help a property sell more quickly in a buyer's market.


   Understanding Owner Financing  

A buyer might be very interested in purchasing a property, but the seller won't budge from a $350,000 asking price. The buyer is willing to pay that amount and can put 20% down—$70,000 that they gained from the sale of their prior home. They would have to finance $280,000, but they can only get approved for a traditional mortgage in the amount of $250,000.



The seller might agree to loan them the $30,000 to make up the difference, or they might agree to finance the entire $280,000. In either case, the buyer would pay the seller monthly, principal plus interest on the loan. These loans are somewhat common when the buyer and seller are family or friends or are associated in some other way outside the deal.






Owner financing is for just a short period of time in many cases until the buyer is able to refinance to pay the owner in full.


   Owner Financing Situations  

There are often a number of specific situations that arise that cause a buyer and seller to agree to owner financing. These situations may include but often aren't limited to the following cases.



The Buyer Has Poor Credit. A potential buyer may be deemed a high-risk borrower and not be eligible for a traditional mortgage if they have a poor credit score or a history of financial problems.
The Buyer Has Limited Down Payment. To approve a mortgage, many lenders need a reasonable down payment to reduce the amount of debt issue and protect against fluctuating property values. Not every buyer has the means to pay so much up advance.
Both Sides Want To Move Fast. Due to the substantial documentation, underwriting, and appraisal procedures required for traditional mortgage processes, traditional loans can be time-consuming compared to owner financing.
The Property Has a High Selling Price. Buyers may be unable to obtain traditional financing due to the high cost of a property. Though one could argue this means the property is potentially financially inadvisable, the prospective buyer could simply seek other forms of borrowing funds.
The Seller Wants the Passive Income Stream. Owner financing turns the sellers into the lenders in the deal, creating an income stream. They get consistent payments from the customer, which might be a reliable source of revenue. They may also benefit from being able to generate interest revenue over time.
There May Be Tax Benefits. Both buyers and sellers may benefit from tax advantages. Mortgage interest deductions may be available to buyers which can lower their taxable income through specific tax deductions. On the other hand, if the transaction is set up as an installment sale, spreading the tax burden over the payment period, sellers may profit from capital gains tax deferral.
The Property Is Unique. Some properties may have special characteristics or be situated in remote locations, making it difficult to finance them through conventional lenders. As lenders may evaluate a property as too risky to finance, the buyer may elect owner financing.
The Buyers Wants Different Terms. Owner financing enables more customizability of the agreement's terms. Depending on their unique requirements and preferences, sellers and purchasers might bargain over interest rates, payment plans, and other terms. This level of adaptability may not be possible with traditional mortgage lenders.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Owner Financing (for Buyers)  
  Pros of Owner Financing (for Buyers)  

Owner financing offers several advantages over traditional lenders. Borrowers may find it easier to qualify for and to make it through the entire approval process. Due to more fluid underwriting constraints, borrowers may find they are able to put less money down. Because there is less rigidity in owner financing as compared to corporate lending, borrowers may find they have greater flexibility on terms when opting for owner financing.



Because lenders may be resistant to financing certain riskier types of properties, owner financing may be the only option a buyer has to secure capital for an acquisition. Traditional lenders often have strict credit score requirements which may scrutinize a buyer's financial history, debt-to-income ratio, and employment stability. Owner financing may not take each of those into consideration.


  Cons of Owner Financing (for Buyers)  

Owner financing involves greater risk for sellers compared to traditional lenders. This means that buyers often have to pay higher interest rates and make higher loan payments over the life of the loan. Though there may be some upfront fees that the borrower does not need to pay, they may still need to pay more over time.



Some owner financing agreements may include balloon payments, which can be challenging for buyers to manage and potentially lead to financial strain or default. Balloon payments stipulate periodic one-time larger payments as this helps mitigate risk on the seller's side. These types of payments are not as typical with traditional mortgages.



Defaulting on owner financing can result in property loss and damage to the buyer's credit score. Additionally, buyer financing may face uncertain market conditions, such as negative equity. Negative equity may occur where the property's value is lower than the outstanding loan balance, making it difficult to sell or refinance at favorable terms.




Pros and Cons, Owner Financing (for Buyers)

Pros

May be easier to qualify for compared to traditional loans
Often results in faster loan approval processes
May result in smaller down payment requirement
Often results in more flexibility in negotiating loan terms



Cons

May incur higher interest rate compared to traditional loans
May include a balloon payment clause, requiring substantial capital at one time
Often has limited legal protection compared to other types of loans





   Advantages and Disadvantages of Owner Financing (for Sellers)  
  Pros of Owner Financing (for Sellers)  

Offering owner financing can open up a broader buyer pool. Some candidates may be naturally excluded because they can't secure a traditional loan. However, they may still want to make a competitive bid and still be able to make all appropriate payments in the future.



This can be especially advantageous in slow real estate markets or unique properties, as it attracts more buyers. In these cases, sellers may be able to command a higher selling price for their property by providing a financing option, making the property more accessible. As lenders, sellers can receive regular principal and interest payments from the buyer. This creates a stable and predictable income stream and can be beneficial for sellers seeking reliable cash flow.



Owner financing can expedite the sale process, eliminating the need for the buyer to go through the lengthy mortgage approval process, which is particularly advantageous in competitive real estate markets. This may help buyers close on the property faster, taking the property off of the market sooner should the deal stall out due to traditional financing.


  Cons of Owner Financing (for Sellers)  

Sellers who finance property sales face various risks they wouldn't otherwise experience if the buyer uses traditional financing. The buyer may default, delaying payments and putting the seller at risk of not capturing all payments agreed to in the sale.



If the buyer defaults on the loan, the seller may need to go through the foreclosure process to reclaim the property. This process can be time-consuming, emotionally draining, and costly. Though the seller may make more money over time, there may be non-financial costs to also consider.



The extended payment schedule of owner financing means sellers receive the purchase price over time rather than in a lump sum. This limits their ability to use funds for other purposes or investments. In some ways, this erodes their purchasing power as money today tends to be more valuable than money received in the future (for the same amount).




Pros and Cons, Owner Financing (for Sellers)

Pros

May result in more prospective buyers
May result in higher prices due to broader buyer pools
May result in steady income stream of principal and interest
May result in a faster sale due to faster close processes



Cons

Incurs the risk of the buyer defaulting directly
Does not get the cash for their property upfront
May result in foreclosure process should buyer stop making payments





   Requirements for Owner Financing  

An owner-financing deal should be facilitated through a promissory note. The promissory note outlines the terms of the arrangement, including but not limited to the interest rate, repayment schedule, and the consequences of default. The owner also typically keeps the property title until all the payments have been made to protect himself against default.



Some do-it-yourself transactions can be fully managed by the owner, but assistance from an attorney is generally advisable to ensure all of the bases are covered. Paying for a title search can be beneficial as well to establish that the owner/seller is, in fact, in a position to sell the property and that they can eventually release the title in exchange for financing some portion or all of the deal.




Can Owner Financing be Used for Commercial Properties?
Yes, owner financing can be used for commercial properties as well. It offers similar benefits to both buyers and sellers in the commercial real estate market.




Are There Tax Implications for Owner Financing?
Both buyers and sellers should be aware of the tax implications of owner financing. Sellers may need to report interest income, while buyers might be eligible for certain tax deductions related to mortgage interest. If you are considering entering an owner financing engagement, consider consulting your tax advisor.




Can Owner Financing Include a Down Payment?
Yes, owner financing often includes a down payment, typically negotiated between the buyer and seller. The down payment helps reduce the amount financed and provides security for the seller.




Can Owner Financing Be Transferred to a Third Party?
In some cases, owner financing can be transferred to a third party, subject to the terms of the original agreement and approval from the seller.


   The Bottom Line  

Owner financing is a real estate arrangement where the property seller acts as the lender, offering direct financing to the buyer. Instead of obtaining a mortgage from a bank, the buyer makes regular payments to the seller until the property is fully paid off. This alternative financing option can benefit buyers with limited access to traditional mortgages and sellers seeking a broader pool of potential buyers.
What Is an Owner-Occupant?  

An owner-occupant is a resident of a property who holds the title to that property. In contrast, an absentee owner carries the title to the property but does not live there. An absentee landlord is a type of absentee owner. 





Key Takeaways

Owner-occupants are residents who own the property where they live.Some loans are only available to owner-occupants and not absentee owners or investors.  To be considered owner-occupied, residents usually must move into the home within 60 days of closing and live there for at least a year.The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) offers special programs for those who plan to be owner-occupants, such as the Good Neighbor Next Door Program, which offers a discount to first responders who live in a property for at least three years.


   How an Owner-Occupant Works  

When applying for a mortgage or refinancing, the lender will need to know if the borrower is going to be an owner-occupant or an absentee owner. Some types of loans may be available only to owner-occupants and not to investors. The application will usually state, “The borrower intends to occupy the property as his/her primary residence,” or some variation thereof when the borrower will be an owner-occupant. Generally, for a property to be owner-occupied, the owner must move into the residence within 60 days of closing and live there for at least one year.






An owner-occupant owns a property and resides at the same property, while an absentee owner does not live at the owned property.



Buyers do not qualify as owner-occupants if they are purchasing property in the name of a trust, as a vacation or second home, or as the part-time home or for a child or relative. 



Homeowners usually are not required to notify their lender if they are moving out of an owner-occupied home in which they have lived for at least 12 months. The intent when applying for and receiving the loan is significant. If a buyer tells the lender that they plan to live in a home while knowing that they intend to rent it, that is considered occupancy fraud. 


   Special Considerations  

Lenders may offer special programs to buyers who intend to live in a property rather than renovate and sell or lease it. For proof, such a buyer must sign an Owner-Occupant Certification document. The Owner-Occupant Certification form, also known as HUD-9548D, can be found on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) website. It must be signed by the property’s buyer and real estate agent and filed with the sale contract. Any submission of a false Owner-Occupant Certification on property risks hefty fines of up to $250,000 or imprisonment of up to two years.



There is some flexibility in lending guidelines for borrowers who intend to live in the home but need to move out within 12 months of the loan start date. Loan documents may specify minimum residency for some programs. For example, HUD offers a 50% discount on HUD-owned homes to firefighters, law enforcement, teachers, and emergency responders. The Good Neighbor Next Door Program encourages these professionals to move into revitalization areas. The HUD discount is connected to a three-year owner-occupancy requirement. Borrowers who leave before the period ends would owe HUD a prorated portion of the discount that they received.


   Pros and Cons of Owner-Occupied Investment Property  



Pros

Tax savings
Access to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) buying assistance programs
Access to HUD foreclosures



Cons

Closer contact with tenants
Potentially more expensive insurance
Potentially roommates with your tenants


Living in the home that you invest and rent out can help you generate wealth quickly. Unfortunately, it also comes with the reality of either living with your tenants or, at the very least, having very close contact with your tenants—for example, if you’re in a duplex. Make sure that you consider your own personality and willingness to live with other people before you make the leap.





Is a Second Home Owner-occupied?
No. A second home does not qualify as owner-occupied. If an owner decides later to make their second home their primary residence, then they could potentially refinance it at that point as their primary residence.




Does a Duplex Count as Owner-occupied?
As long as you intend to live in part of the duplex as your primary residence, a duplex counts as an owner-occupied property.




Is a Home With an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Owner-occupied?
Yes. If you, as the owner, are living in either the main home or the accessory dwelling unit (ADU), then a home with an ADU qualifies as owner-occupied.


   The Bottom Line  

Owner-occupied units give potential investors significant savings and the ability to climb the property ladder at a lower income than if they are just buying a home in which to live. The potential for rental income offsetting your own housing costs is attractive, but don’t forget the significant downside of living with your potential tenants. Make sure you know what you’re getting into before you sign on a deal that will make you a landlord to your roommates.
What Is Owners' Equivalent Rent (OER)?  

Owners’ equivalent rent (OER) is the amount of rent that would have to be paid in order to substitute a currently owned house as a rental property. This value is also referred to as the rental equivalent. In other words, OER figures the amount of monthly rent that would be equivalent to the monthly expenses of owning a property (e.g. mortgage, taxes, etc.).





Key Takeaways

Owners’ equivalent rent (OER) measures how much money a property owner would have to pay in rent to be equivalent to their cost of ownership.OER is used to measure the value of real estate markets, where it can help direct individuals to either buy or rent based on the total monthly cost.OER tends to be linked to inflation, and so as inflation has risen so has OER.


   Understanding Owners' Equivalent Rent  

Owners’ equivalent rent is a statistic that is followed by homeowners and tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The data used for calculating owners' equivalent rent is obtained through surveys, which ask members of a household (called a consumer unit) the following question: "If someone were to rent your home today, how much do you think it would rent for monthly, unfurnished, and without utilities?"



OER is a commonly cited measure that provides a gauge for changes in real estate market values. If OER is high, it may be more worthwhile to buy a home rather than rent it. On the other hand, if OER is low, renting might be a better prospect.



Owners’ equivalent rent typically changes with movements in the Consumer Price Index. OER increases over time and was steadily increasing up until 2022 when the economy was hit with high inflation, which saw OER increase at higher rates than before 2022.


   Evaluating OER  

When evaluating housing and shelter, owners' equivalent rent of a primary residence is one of the three components of the shelter category contributing to the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which measures the average change over time in the prices paid by consumers for a market basket of goods and services.



The calculation takes into account rental values, owners’ equivalent rent, and lodging away from home. These three components are drivers of changes in the total value of shelter. Collectively, these components can be influenced by the real estate market environment overall as well as various monetary factors such as prevailing interest rates, property taxes, available mortgage products, and insurance.



For instance, in April 2023, the shelter component of the Consumer Price Index reported a 0.4% monthly increase and an 8.1% annual increase. Shelter prices were among the highest increases across the CPI in the previous year, with transportation and food away from home having the highest impact. In April 2023, the CPI’s average increase across all items was 0.4%.



In addition to serving as a component of the CPI, the Bureau of Labor Statistics also provides data on fluctuations in owners’ equivalent rent monthly. This owners' equivalent rent is a percentage change that is published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics to measure the change in implicit rent, which is the amount a homeowner would pay to rent or would earn from renting their home in a competitive market.




How Do You Calculate Owners' Equivalent Rent?
Owners' equivalent rent (OER) is calculated using a monthly survey of consumers living in a unit. The survey poses the question of how much the owner would pay to rent their home rather than own it.




What Is the CPI Owners' Equivalent of Rent of Residences?
The CPI owners' equivalent rent (OER) measures the change in the "shelter" component of the CPI along with "rent of primary residence," which, both together, is a measure of the change consumers experience in shelter costs.




What Is CPI to Inflation?
The consumer price index (CPI) measures the rate of change in inflation over time. The CPI is based on the prices U.S. consumers pay for goods and services. The percentage change of the CPI over a given period is inflation.


   The Bottom Line  

Owners’ equivalent rent (OER) is a metric that provides insight into the changes in the real estate market and can help assist consumers in determining whether it is a better time to buy a property or rent a home.
What Is Saïd Business School (SBS)?  

Saïd Business School (SBS) is the business school at Oxford University. SBS offers both programs in finance, business, and management for undergraduate and graduate students. The school also has several graduate and doctorate programs that cover specific aspects of business and finance. SBS consistently ranks among the world's top business schools despite being a new player in the arena.





Key Takeaways

The Saïd Business School Oxford University's school of business and management.It consistently ranks among the world's best MBA programs.The school was established following a large donation from Wafic Rida Saïd, a wealthy arms dealer and financier.


   Understanding Saïd Business School (SBS)  

Business studies were first introduced at Oxford under the Oxford Centre for Management Studies in 1965. But it wasn't until 1990 that it officially opened the School of Management Studies. Six years later, the university founded the Saïd School of Business at Oxford University. It is named after Wafic Rida Saïd, a philanthropist and businessman who made a £20 million donation to construct a building for the school.



SBS's mission statement is: “A powerful business school produces powerful ideas, and being an integral part of Oxford, we think expansively:



What are the rules of the game: how do written and unwritten rules affect the performance of a business?What types of organizations, whether high growth, high impact, or high scale, will fundamentally change the business landscape?How do we map the trends that will define the future of business? How do we educate and energize a community that can address these huge issues?”



The business school, which is known simply as Saïd or Oxford Saïd, offers 15 different degree programs for undergraduate, graduate, and doctorate students, along with executive diplomas and courses for executive education. Although the school is integrated with Oxford and uses its resources, SBS has its own brand and faculty.



SBS is headed by Soumitra Dutta. The dean joined the school in 2022 and has a background in education and management of various business schools. He also sits on a number of advisory boards of international schools in Canada, Peru, Colombia, and Spain.






Wafic Saïd is known for being among the world's largest arms dealers. He is credited for building Saudi Arabia's military in the 1980s drawing mainly upon British suppliers. Known as Al-Yamamah, it is said to be the single largest arms deal in history.


   Programs Offered at Saïd Business School (SBS)  

Saïd Business School offers undergraduate, MBA, graduate, and doctorate degree programs. These are highlighted in the table below.











Saïd Business School Degree Programs




Undergraduate 
MBA Programs 
Graduate 
Doctorate


BA Economics and Management 
MBA 
MSc Financial Economics 
DPhil Finance


 
1+1 MBA (MA + MBA) 
MSc Global Healthcare Leadership 
DPhil Management



Executive MBA
MSc Law and Finance





MSc Major Programme Management




Source: Saïd Business School



SBS also offers executive diplomas in the following disciplines:



Artificial Intelligence for BusinessFinancial StrategyGlobal BusinessOrganisational LeadershipStrategy and Innovation



Executive education allows students to take courses on campus, online, or to design their own custom programs.



The cost to attend SBS depends on the program. For instance, the tuition for the one-year MBA beginning September 2023 was listed as £71,440. The cost for the Executive MBA with a September 2023 and January 2024 start was listed as £106,540. A student who pursues the nine-month MSc Financial Economics degree can expect to pay £52,560 in September 2023.


   Rankings of Saïd Business School (SBS)  

The Economist ranks the school in the 48th spot out of 100 schools. As many as 79% of students received job offers within three months of graduating. The school's ranking for overall personal development and educational experience was 21st out of 100 while the quality of students and faculty ranked 20th and 39th out of 100, respectively.



According to the Financial Times, SBS took the 25th spot out of 95 schools in Europe in 2022. Its MBA program came in eighth place while the executive MBA program came in seventh among European business schools in 2022. Other key rankings from the Financial Times include:



#31 for the executive education customized programs#5 for the executive education open programs#10 for MSc in Finance Pre-Experience among similar programs#15 for the Oxford Executive MBA among similar programs 




How Much Does an MBA Cost to Pursue at Saïd Business School?
The cost of pursuing an MBA at Oxford Saïd depends on the type of program. While the school doesn't list the tuition and associated costs for the 1+1 MBA, it does list them for the other two programs. Pursuing a full-year Oxford MBA as of September 2023 costs £71,440. The tuition for the Oxford Executive MBA, though, is much higher. This part-time program costs £106,540 and takes 22 or 24 months depending on when you start.




How Did Saïd Business School Get its Name?
SBS is named after Syrian-Saudi-Canadian Wafic Saïd. The businessman and philanthropist donated £20 million to facilitate the construction of a building for the business school. Saïd is the chair of the Saïd Foundation, a charity that works with children in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and Palestine. He also founded Saïd Holdings, a private investment company.




What Do I Need to Apply to Saïd Business School?
Oxford Saïd requires prospective students to apply online. This includes scanning and uploading any supporting documents, including a written statement and two referral letters. Applicants are required to write the GMAT or GRE exam for their desired program and must have a minimum grade point average. For instance, Oxford MBA applicants must have a minimum GPA of 3.5/4.0. Prospective students for this program must have at least two years of work experience. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for an interview.


   The Bottom Line  

Oxford is one of the most prestigious universities in the world, which is why it's no surprise that there are many students who compete for a spot at the Saïd Business School. It offers a range of programs for undergraduate, graduate, and doctorate students, as well as courses for working executives. But studying here does come at a cost. The school has a rigorous application process and tuition for some programs can be higher than £100,000.
