What Is Q as a Ticker Symbol?  

The letter Q used to be part of the ticker symbols for a stock trading on the Nasdaq, specifying that a particular company was in bankruptcy proceedings. If the letter Q appeared as the final letter of a Nasdaq symbol, it meant, "bankrupt: issuer has filed for bankruptcy," as the Nasdaq put it.





Key Takeaways

Q is a former Nasdaq designation that noted a company had filed for bankruptcy.The Q would show up as the final letter in a stock symbol.The Nasdaq phased out the usage of Q as of 2016.


   Understanding Q  

All companies traded on the Nasdaq have four-lettered ticker symbols, which are representative of the actual company. For example, Apple trades as AAPL, Microsoft as MSFT, and so on. However, in some cases, a ticker symbol on the Nasdaq will have five letters, and the fifth letter is an identifier symbol that tells market participants something about the company.



Before the system changed, Nasdaq added a Q onto a company's ticker to tell investors the company filed for bankruptcy. Nasdaq now uses the Financial Status Indicator, which marks key issues beyond just bankruptcy filings, including a failure to meet Nasdaq listing requirements. Other markets and exchanges may still use "Q" to indicate a bankruptcy filing, however.






Q is one of two letters that the Nasdaq no longer uses as an identifier, with the other being E.



Each trading day, Nasdaq publishes a list of companies that, in one way or another, don't meet the listing standards. According to Nasdaq, a company is added to the list five business days after Nasdaq notifies the company about its noncompliance and is removed from the list one business day after Nasdaq determines that the company has regained compliance or no longer trades on Nasdaq.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Q Ratio or Tobin's Q?  

The Q ratio, also known as Tobin's Q, equals the market value of a company divided by its assets' replacement cost. Thus, equilibrium is when market value equals replacement cost. At its most basic level, the Q Ratio expresses the relationship between market valuation and intrinsic value. In other words, it is a means of estimating whether a given business or market is overvalued or undervalued.





Key Takeaways

The Q ratio was popularized by Nobel Laureate James Tobin and invented in 1966 by Nicholas Kaldor.The Q ratio, also known as Tobin's Q, measures whether a firm or an aggregate market is relatively over- or undervalued.It relies on the concepts of market value and replacement value.The simplified Q ratio is the equity market value divided by equity book value.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Formula and Calculation of the Q Ratio  






Tobin’s Q


=



Total Market Value of Firm


Total Asset Value of Firm




\text{Tobin's Q}=\frac{\text{Total Market Value of Firm}}{\text{Total Asset Value of Firm}}


Tobin’s Q=Total Asset Value of FirmTotal Market Value of Firm​



The Q ratio is calculated as the market value of a company divided by the replacement value of the firm's assets. Since the replacement cost of total assets is difficult to estimate, another version of the formula is often used by analysts to estimate Tobin's Q ratio. It is as follows:








Tobin’s Q


=



Equity Market Value + Liabilities Market Value


Equity Book Value + Liabilities Book Value




\text{Tobin's Q} = \frac{\text{Equity Market Value + Liabilities Market Value}}{\text{Equity Book Value + Liabilities Book Value}}


Tobin’s Q=Equity Book Value + Liabilities Book ValueEquity Market Value + Liabilities Market Value​



Often, the assumption is made the market value of liabilities and the book value of a company's liabilities are equivalent, since market value typically does not account for a firm's liabilities. This provides a simplified version of the Tobin's Q ratio as the following:








Tobin’s Q


=



Equity Market Value


Equity Book Value




\text{Tobin's Q} = \frac{\text{Equity Market Value}}{\text{Equity Book Value}}


Tobin’s Q=Equity Book ValueEquity Market Value​


   What the Q Ratio Can Tell You  

The Tobin's Q ratio is a quotient popularized by James Tobin of Yale University, Nobel laureate in economics, who hypothesized that the combined market value of all the companies on the stock market should be about equal to their replacement costs.



While Tobin is often attributed as its creator, this ratio was first proposed in an academic publication by economist Nicholas Kaldor in 1966. In earlier texts, the ratio is sometimes referred to as "Kaldor's v."



A low Q ratio—between 0 and 1—means that the cost to replace a firm's assets is greater than the value of its stock. This implies that the stock is undervalued. Conversely, a high Q (greater than 1) implies that a firm's stock is more expensive than the replacement cost of its assets, which implies that the stock is overvalued.



This measure of stock valuation is the driving factor behind investment decisions in Tobin's Q ratio. When applied to the market as a whole, we can gauge whether an entire market is relatively overbought or undervalued; we can represent this relationship as follows:








Q Ratio (Market)


=



Market Capitalization of all Companies


Replacement Value of all Companies




\text{Q Ratio (Market)} = \frac{\text{Market Capitalization of all Companies}}{\text{Replacement Value of all Companies}}


Q Ratio (Market)=Replacement Value of all CompaniesMarket Capitalization of all Companies​



For either a firm or a market, a ratio greater than one would theoretically indicate that the market or company is overvalued. A ratio that is less than one would imply that it is undervalued.



Underlying these simple equations is an equally simple intuition regarding the relationship between price and value. In essence, Tobin’s Q Ratio asserts that a business (or a market) is worth what it costs to replace. The cost necessary to replace the business (or market) is its replacement value.



It might seem logical that fair market value would be a Q ratio of 1.0. But, that has not historically been the case. Prior to 1995 (for data as far back as 1945), the U.S. Q ratio never reached 1.0. During the first quarter of 2000, the Q ratio hit 2.15, while in the first quarter of 2009 it was 0.66. As of the second quarter of 2020, the Q ratio was 2.12.


  Replacement Value and the Q Ratio  

Replacement value (or replacement cost) refers to the cost of replacing an existing asset based on its current market price. For example, the replacement value of a one-terabyte hard drive might be just $50 today, even if we paid $500 for the same storage space a few years ago.



In this scenario, ascertaining the replacement value would be easy because there is a robust market for hard drives from which to examine prices. To determine what a one-terabyte hard drive is worth, we would simply need to determine what it would cost to buy a one-terabyte hard drive (of comparable quality and specifications) from one of the many different suppliers on the market. In many cases, however, the replacement value of assets can prove much more elusive than this.



For instance, consider a business that owns complicated software tailor-made for its operations. Because of its highly specialized nature, there may not be any comparable alternatives available on the market. Unlike our previous example, we could not simply check to see how much similar software is selling for, because sufficiently similar software would not exist. It would thus be difficult, if not impossible, to render an objective estimate of the software’s replacement value.



Similar circumstances present themselves in a variety of business contexts, from complex industrial machinery and obscure financial assets to intangible assets such as goodwill. Due to the inherent difficulty of determining the replacement value of these and similar assets, many investors do not regard Tobin’s Q Ratio to be a reliable tool for valuing individual companies.


   Example of How to Use the Q-Ratio  

The formula for Tobin's Q ratio takes the total market value of the firm and divides it by the total asset value of the firm. For example, assume that a company has $35 million in assets. It also has 10 million shares outstanding that are trading for $4 a share. In this example, the Tobin's Q ratio would be:








Tobin’s Q Ratio


=



Total Market Value of Firm


Total Asset Value of Firm



=




$


40


,


000


,


000




$


35


,


000


,


000




=


1.14



\text{Tobin's Q Ratio} = \frac{\text{Total Market Value of Firm}}{\text{Total Asset Value of Firm}} = \frac{\$40,000,000}{\$35,000,000}= 1.14


Tobin’s Q Ratio=Total Asset Value of FirmTotal Market Value of Firm​=$35,000,000$40,000,000​=1.14



Since the ratio is greater than 1.0, the market value exceeds the replacement value and so we could say the firm is overvalued and might be a sale.



An undervalued company, one with a ratio of less than one, would be attractive to corporate raiders or potential purchasers, as they may want to purchase the firm instead of creating a similar company. This would likely result in increased interest in the company, which would increase its stock price, which in turn increase its Tobin's Q ratio.



As for overvalued companies, those with a ratio higher than one, they may see increased competition. A ratio higher than one indicates that a firm is earning a rate higher than its replacement cost, which would cause individuals or other companies to create similar types of businesses to capture some of the profits. This would lower the existing firm's market shares, reduce its market price and cause its Tobin's Q ratio to fall.


   Limitations of Using the Q Ratio  

Tobin's Q is still used in practice, but others have since found that fundamentals predict investment results much better than the Q ratio, including the rate of profit—either for a company or the average rate of profit for a nation's economy.



Others, like Doug Henwood in his book Wall Street: How It Works and For Whom, find that the Q ratio fails to accurately predict investment outcomes over an important time period. The data for Tobin's original (1977) paper covered the years 1960 to 1974, a period for which Q seemed to explain investment pretty well. But looking at other time periods, the Q fails to predict over- or undervalued markets or firms. While the Q and the investment seemed to move together for the first half of the 1970s, the Q collapsed during the bearish stock markets of the late 1970s, even as investment in assets rose.
What Is the Qatar Investment Authority (QIA)?  

The Qatar Investment Authority (QIA) is a government-owned entity charged with managing the sovereign wealth fund (SWF) of Qatar. QIA’s mission is to invest, manage and grow Qatar’s reserves in order to support the development of Qatar’s economy.



Though Qatar’s population is relatively small, its sovereign wealth fund is among the largest in the world, and it has among the world's lowest unemployment.





Key Takeaways

The Qatar Investment Authority (QIA) is that nation's sovereign wealth fund, located in Doha.Established in 2005, the QIA has grown to become of of the world's largest SWFs.Much of Qatar's wealth comes from oil and gas revenues.As of mid-2022, the QIA's portfolio was worth roughly $360 billion.The fund has a long-term investment outlook and can invest in a wide variety of asset classes.


   Understanding the Qatar Investment Authority (QIA)  

The Qatar Investment Authority was established in 2005 and is based in Doha, Qatar. QIA strives to invest and manage funds assigned to it by the Supreme Council for Economic Affairs and Investment (SCEAI). The QIA is owned by the government of Qatar but reports to the SCEAI. Additionally, it is managed by a board of directors. Qatar's State Audit Bureau is responsible for auditing the financial operations of the QIA.



The QIA does not have any mandated limitations on its investment universe and is able to invest in both domestic and foreign marketable securities, real property, real estate, alternative assets, private equity funds, and credit and fixed income securities. The QIA also employs derivatives in its investment strategy. Most of QIA’s investments are outside of Qatar.



The QIA states that it is guided by five principal values: integrity, mission focus, entrepreneurialism, excellence and respect for people. The authority follows a strict four-stage approach to each investment, which is broken down into origination, evaluation, execution and active portfolio management. The QIA also claims that risk management is at the core of its investment strategy.


   QIA's Investment Strategy  

QIA's portfolio managers employ a patient approach, with long time horizons. The fund uses a 4-step process to choose investments. Origination is the term the QIA uses to find potential investments, often leveraging co-investors such as global banks or other sovereign wealth funds. Evaluation is the next step, where due diligence is employed. Execution involves entering the investment at the best available prices and without moving markets. Active management is the fourth step, where positions are re-evaluated and changes can be made, including disposing of the position.



In 2020, the QIA introduced a more formal top-down portfolio asset allocation process to guide the medium and long-term evolution of its portfolio. QIA’s Reference Portfolio is designed to meet the long-term return objectives, subject to risk and liquidity limits set by the Board. The Reference Portfolio is then used to develop annual and medium-term investment plans for each investment team.​






QIA actively trades its portfolio, but are not activist towards invested companies.


  QIA Investments  

The QIA makes direct investments in projects related to real estate, infrastructure, financial institutions, industry, and investment funds. It also invests in publicly-traded securities including global equities, fixed-income, and alternative investments.



As of mid-2022, QIA's holdings were estimated to be around $360 billion, down from a record $450 billion reached earlier in 2022.


   History of the QIA  

2000: The Supreme Council for the investment of state reserves is established to manage the investment of Qatar’s revenue surplus.2005: QIA is established to develop, invest and manage state reserve funds and other assets.2006: QIA investment operations officially start.2009: New investment teams are created that include financial institutions and real estate.2011: The Capital Markets Team is established.2012: Commodities, infrastructure, retail, and consumer facilities are added.2015: QIA begins prioritizing diversification of its portfolio2017: QIA becomes one of six founding members of the One Planet Sovereign Wealth Fund Group. This initiative focuses on risks and opportunities related to climate change into the management of large, long-term asset pools. ​2020: QIA announces it will make no new investments in fossil fuels at the World Economic Forum annual meeting.




Who Owns the Qatar Investment Authority?
The QIA is owned by the national government of the State of Qatar. It is run by a CEO and board of governors.




Where Can I Invest in Qatar?
Foreign investors are allowed to own up to 100% of Qatari companies; however, for most investors, accessing such holdings is difficult. Instead, U.S. investors can look to the iShares MSCI Qatar ETF (QAT), which tracks the country's stock market.




How Big Is Qatar’s Sovereign Wealth Fund?
The QIA portfolio is estimated to be worth around $360 billion as of mid-2022. This puts it at the bottom of the top 10 sovereign wealth funds in terms of total assets.
What Is the Qatari Riyal (QAR)?  

QAR is the currency code for the Qatari riyal, the currency of the State of Qatar which is located along the coast of the Arabian Peninsula. The Qatari riyal is made up of 100 dirhams. The abbreviation for the currency is QR, in English. Riyal is also frequently referred to as rial. All Qatar notes and coins are issued by the Qatar Central Bank whose objectives include monetary stability and regulatory control of the currency.





Key Takeaways

The Qatari riyal is the official currency of the State of Qatar. The currency code is QAR, and the abbreviation is QR.QAR is pegged to the USD at a rate of 1 USD/QAR 3.64 and is allowed to fluctuate in a band between 3.6385 and 3.6415.The Qatar Central Bank oversees the issuance of currency and has regulatory control to maintain the currency peg.The peg has largely been maintained both domestically and in foreign markets, although the QAR did drop to 3.81 in 2017 (in foreign markets) when several countries cut diplomatic ties with Qatar based on terrorism allegations.The Qatari riyal has bill denominations of one, five, 10, 50, 100, and 500 riyals. Coins denominations are one, five, 10, 25, and 50 dirhams.


   Understanding the Qatari Riyal (QAR)  

The Qatari riyal replaced the Qatar and Dubai riyal in 1973 when Dubai entered the United Arab Emirates (UAE). At this time, Qatar began to issue its riyal separately. The Qatar and Dubai riyal came into force in 1966, at which time the previous currency, the Indian rupee, was replaced due to India's devaluation of its currency.



The riyal is pegged to the U.S. dollar (USD) at 3.64 QAR per one USD, or USD/QAR = 3.64. The peg became official in 2001 when it was written into law by Royal Decree. Per the law, the currency will be maintained within a band between 3.6385 and 3.6415 riyals per USD.



Because Qatar's economy is heavily dependent on commodities such as oil and natural gas, the pegging of its currency reduces potential economic shocks because these commodity prices are denominated in U.S. dollars. The oil and gas industry represents the majority of Qatar's gross domestic product (GDP).



The Qatari riyal has bill denominations of one, five, 10, 50, 100, and 500 riyals. Coins denominations are one, five, 10, 25, and 50 dirhams.


   Currency Fluctuation  

In 2017, the value of the riyal shifted in the offshore market after some foreign countries ceased dealing with Qatari banks, which created a liquidity shortfall, pushing the value of the riyal to 3.81 in some foreign markets.



During this time, and after, the official peg rate of 3.64 stayed in effect within Qatar. This period, referred to as the diplomatic crisis, resulted from several countries cutting diplomatic ties and not allowing Qatar to use their airspace or sea routes as it was alleged that Qatar was supporting terrorism.



In Jan 2021, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain signed a "solidarity and stability" agreement towards ending the diplomatic rift (trade ties and land, sea, and air blockade) against Qatar.


   Currency Exchange  

If traveling to Qatar, the pegged exchange rate is one USD to 3.64 QAR. Unfortunately, the live exchange is not the rate a traveler will get who wants QR cash. Banks and currency exchange services will typically charge a 3% to 5% service charge, and work this into the exchange rate they offer a client. Therefore, instead of getting QR3.64 for each one USD, the traveler will likely get 3.46, which is almost 5% less.



The currency exchange makes the money on the difference between the two rates.



Assume the traveler converts $1,000 at this rate, receiving QR3,460. They spend some of this on their trip, but not all of it. When they come home to the U.S., they want to convert their remaining QR1,500 back into USD.





$179.6 Billion

The GDP of Qatar in 2021, as of Aug. 14, 2022.



The official exchange rate of the USD/QAR is still 3.64. To find out what each QAR is worth in USD, divide one by 3.64, for a rate of 0.274725. This is the QAR/USD rate.



Therefore, the expected money the traveler will receive is $412.09 (QR1,500 x $0.274725). But recall that banks and currency exchanges typically take a service fee and include that fee in the exchange rate.



Therefore, instead of getting $0.274725 for each QAR, the traveler will likely get a rate closer to $0.261, which is almost five percent less. So instead of receiving $412.09, they receive $391.50 (QR1,500 x $0.261).




Is Qatari Currency Pegged to Another Currency?
Qatari currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar at a fixed rate of $1 to QR3.64.




What Was the Currency of Qatar Before the Riyal?
The currency that Qatar had before the riyal was the Dubai riyal. Before that, it was using the Saudi riyal. Before the Saudi riyal, the main currency was the Gulf rupee.




Which Countries Use Riyals?
Countries that use the riyal include Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Oman, Yemen.
What Is QQQQ?  

QQQQ is the original ticker symbol for the Invesco QQQ Trust, an ETF that trades on the Nasdaq exchange. This security offers broad exposure to the tech sector by tracking the Nasdaq 100 Index, which consists of the 100 largest and most actively traded non-financial stocks on the Nasdaq. Also known as "cubes" or the "triple Qs," it is now listed with its current ticker symbol, QQQ, which it adopted in March 2011.





Key Takeaways

QQQQ is the original ticker symbol for the Invesco QQQ Trust, an ETF that trades on the Nasdaq exchange. The ETF, whose current ticker symbol is QQQ, is also known as "cubes" or "triple-Qs."QQQ offers broad exposure to the tech sector by tracking the Nasdaq 100 Index.The Nasdaq 100 Index tracks the 100 largest and most actively traded non-financial stocks on the Nasdaq. The ETF itself includes a very small percentage of financial services stocks, as of April 2023.


   Understanding QQQQ  

QQQQ no longer exists as a ticker symbol, having been shortened to QQQ in 2011. The exchange-traded fund is known officially as the Invesco QQQ Trust and was launched in 1999. It still tracks the Nasdaq 100, a stock index listing the 100 largest Nasdaq companies by market cap. The Nasdaq 100 Index comprises companies from all sectors, with the exception of financial services. These industries include consumer discretionary, industrial, technology, health care, and others.



The ETF provides an especially viable investment choice for investors seeking exposure to the tech sector, because many of the largest companies listed on the Nasdaq are blue-chip tech behemoths such as Google (GOOGL), Microsoft (MSFT), and Qualcomm (QCOM).



All companies in the Invesco QQQ Trust must be listed on the Nasdaq 100 exchange for at least two years. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. Namely, companies that have been listed for only one year but have extraordinarily high market capitalizations may make the cut.



All stocks need to have an average daily trading volume of 200,000 shares, and they are likewise required to report earnings on both quarterly and annual bases. Companies with bankruptcy issues are omitted from the Invesco QQQ Trust.






The Invesco QQQ Trust was launched in March 1999. As of March 31, 2023, QQQ had $172.57 billion total assets under management.


   Composition of the Invesco QQQ Trust  

While the Invesco QQQ Trust has a technology focus, it includes companies from various sectors and industries. Here are the sectors that it invests in, as of April 3, 2023.


  Sectors  







Information Technology
49.49%


Communication Services
16.41%


Consumer Discretionary 
14.71%


Health Care 
6.28%


Consumer Staples
6.00%


Industrials
4.33%


Financials
1.19%


Utilities
1.15%


Energy
0.43%


Not Classified
0.24%






It's worth remembering that the Invesco QQQ Trust tracks just those stocks in the Nasdaq 100 Index. That's a limited number of stocks compared to other Nasdaq ETFs. Case in point: the popular Nasdaq Composite Index tracks every stock listed on the Nasdaq, including financial services names, which amounts to more than 3,000 public companies.



Here are the ETF's top ten holdings, as of April 3, 2023.










1.
Microsoft Corp.
12.52%


2.
Apple Inc.
12.44%


3.
Amazon.com Inc.
6.17%


4.
NVIDIA Corp.
5.27%


5.
Alphabet Inc. Class A
3.73%


6.
Alphabet Inc. Class C
3.68%


7.
Tesla Inc.
3.62%


8.
Meta Platforms Inc. Class A
3.62%


9.
Broadcom Inc.
2.04%


10.
PepsiCo Inc.
1.92%





   QQQ Advantages and Disadvantages  
  Advantages  

Diversification: With a single investment, QQQ investors get exposure to the 100 stocks found in the Nasdaq 100 Index.



Cost: The relatively low .20% expense ratio won't diminish investors' returns as much as higher expense ratios found with other ETFs and mutual funds.



Attractive return potential: The focus on technology and transformative industries offers investors the possibility of higher returns compared to funds with less of a tech focus and greater diversification.



Liquidity: Millions of QQQ shares trade every day, making the ETF efficiently priced, and easy to buy and sell.


  Disadvantages  

Narrow focus: While QQQ is diversified, it owns only 100 stocks and the group is heavily weighted in technology industries.



Nasdaq stocks only: Those seeking tech sector exposure miss out on major tech stocks listed elsewhere, e.g., Oracle Corp., Salesforce, Uber Technologies, and SAP, which are on the NYSE.



Higher risk: The higher return potential of the tech sector can subject investors to greater volatility and greater sector risk.



Underperformance: Like any index fund, QQQ can underperform its target index due to fees and costs. Also, due to its composition, it may perform less well when the market declines than other ETFs/indexes, e.g., SPDR/the S&P 500 Index.





Pros

Easy diversification with a single investment
Attractive return potential of tech sector focus
Highly liquid and priced efficiently
Low relative .20% cost



Cons

Diversified with just 100 stocks
Nasdaq-only tech stocks excludes returns of other tech companies
Volatility associated with tech industries
Underperformance potential from fees and in down markets







What Is the Difference Between QQQ and QQQQ?
QQQ is the stock ticker symbol for the Invesco 100 Trust exchange-traded fund. QQQQ is the ticker used previously and replaced in 2011.




What Are the Benefits of QQQQ?
Some of the benefits of QQQ include targeted and convenient diversification, the potential for greater returns compared to those offered by less transformative industries and companies, and the greater liquidity offered by an actively traded security.




Does QQQQ Pay Dividends?
Yes, it does. In fact, QQQ's target index's growth in dividends measured 433% over the 10 years from 12/31/2011 to 12/31/2021.


   The Bottom Line  

QQQQ is the former stock ticker symbol for the Invesco QQQ Trust ETF. It was shortened to QQQ in 2011. While the symbol changed, the ETF did not. It continues to attempt to track the performance of the Nasdaq 100 Index.
What Is a Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA)?  

A qualified small employer health reimbursement arrangement (QSEHRA), also known as a small business HRA, is a health coverage subsidy plan designed for employees of businesses with fewer than 50 full-time employees. Any money reimbursed is tax-free for employees and tax-deductible by employers.





Key Takeaways

A QSEHRA is a health cost reimbursement plan that can be offered by small business employers.The costs reimbursed are tax-deductible by businesses and tax-free for employees.The plan can be used to offset health insurance coverage or repay uncovered medical expenses.


   How a Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA) Works  

A company that decides to offer a QSEHRA agrees to reimburse employees for healthcare-related costs up to a maximum amount each year. Eligible employees may enroll during open enrollment season or after experiencing a qualifying life event, such as a marriage or divorce.






The IRS has released new guidance that allows employers more flexibility for benefit plans during the 2020 economic crisis. Among other things, Notice 2020-29 allows employees who initially declined employer-sponsored health coverage an opportunity to enroll in, switch, or drop health coverage or employer-sponsored health coverage. However, these provisions are entirely at the discretion of the employer. If you're not sure about your options, check with your HR or benefits person.



Reimbursements can be used to pay the premiums for health insurance purchased on the market and to pay for qualified medical expenses, including copayments for doctor’s office visits, prescriptions, and lab work. Employers may narrow the list of eligible expenses but not expand it and employees must provide proof of their actual medical costs to receive reimbursement.






Employees must have qualifying health coverage in order to use their QSEHRA.



In the 2022 tax year, a company with a QSEHRA may reimburse single employees up to $5,450 per year and employees with families up to $11,050 per year. These figures represent an increase from the 2021 tax year maximums of $5,300 for individual coverage and $10,700 for family coverage.



The limits are set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) because the employer is eligible to take a business tax deduction for its costs and the benefit to employees is tax-free.






Employees not covered by a QSEHRA for a full year (e.g., mid-year hires) receive a prorated amount of the full-year maximum reimbursement sum.


   History of the Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA)  

Former President Barack Obama signed the QSEHRA into law on Dec. 13, 2016, as part of the 21st Century Cures Act, and the plans became available to employees on March 13, 2017.



The act corrected a problem for small businesses offering health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs) between 2014 and 2016. During this period, small businesses could be hit with penalties of $100 per employee per day for being out of compliance with the requirements of the Affordable Care Act (ACA).


   Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA) Eligibility  

To qualify to use a QSEHRA, a business must have fewer than 50 full-time employees, provide the QSEHRA on the same terms to all full-time workers, and not have a group health plan or a flexible spending arrangement (FSA)—A QSEHRA is not a group health plan.



Medium and large companies may offer HRAs only as an option alongside group health insurance coverage such as a preferred provider organization (PPO) or health maintenance organization (HMO) plan. Sole proprietors, partners in partnerships, and self-employed employers are not eligible for HMO and PPO plans.


   Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA) Compliance  

To comply with the law, all employees covered by a QSEHRA must benefit from it equally. Employer contributions to each employee's account must be equal.



Employers are not required to include new, part-time, or seasonal workers in the benefits they provide. However, if they offer a QSEHRA to full-time employees, they must cover all of them. Because the ACA governs these arrangements, participating employees must provide proof that they carry the minimum essential health coverage required by the ACA.



QSEHRA plans also receive oversight from the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Following ERISA regulation means employers must give employees a summary plan description that describes their plan benefits.



Finally, should an employer make another form of group health insurance available, they are no longer permitted to offer a QSEHRA plan.
What is the Qstick Indicator  

The Qstick indicator is a technical analysis indicator developed by Tushar Chande to numerically identify trends on a price chart. It is calculated by taking an 'n' period moving average of the difference between the open and closing prices. A Qstick value greater than zero means that the majority of the last 'n' days have been up, indicating that buying pressure has been increasing.



The Qstick Indicator is also called Quick Stick. It is not widely available in trading and charting software.





Key Takeaways

The QStick calculates a moving average of the difference between closing and opening prices. A rising indicator signals the price is closing higher than it opened, on average.A falling QStick signals the price is closing lower than it opened, on average.The QStick can generate trade signals based on signal-line or zero-line crossovers.


   The Formula for the QStick Indicator is  
















QSI


=


EMA or SMA of 


(


Close


−


Open


)
















where:
















EMA


=


Exponential moving average
















SMA


=


Simple moving average
















Close


=


Closing price for period
















Open


=


Opening price for period







\begin{aligned}&\text{QSI} = \text{EMA or SMA of } ( \text{Close} - \text{Open} ) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{EMA} = \text{Exponential moving average} \\&\text{SMA} = \text{Simple moving average} \\&\text{Close} = \text{Closing price for period} \\&\text{Open} = \text{Opening price for period} \\\end{aligned}


​QSI=EMA or SMA of (Close−Open)where:EMA=Exponential moving averageSMA=Simple moving averageClose=Closing price for periodOpen=Opening price for period​



There is the option to add a simple moving average (SMA) of the QStick indicator. This creates a signal line.


   How to Calculate the QStick Indicator  

Record differences between the close and open price for each period.Decide on how many periods to use in the EMA or SMA. The more periods used, the smoother the indicator and the fewer the signals, better for identifying the overall trend.Calculate the EMA or SMA once there are enough (close-open) data points.Option: calculate an SMA of the Qstick calculations. This provides a signal line. Three is common period used for signal lines.


   What Does the Qstick Indicator Tell You?  

The QStick is measuring buying and selling pressure, taking an average of the difference between closing and opening prices. When the price, on average, is closing lower than it opens, the indicator moves lower. When the price, on average, is closing higher than the open, the indicator moves up.



Transaction signals occur when the Qstick crosses above the zero line. Crossing above zero is used as a buy signal because it is indicating that buying pressure is increasing, while sell signals occur when the indicator moves below zero.



In addition, an 'n' period moving average of the Qstick values can be drawn to act as a signal line. Transaction signals are then generated when the Qstick value crosses through the trigger line. Three is a common 'n' period for signal line.



When the QSticks moves above the signal line it indicates that the price is starting to have more closes above the open, and therefore price may be starting rise. When the Qstick crosses below the signal line it indicates price is starting have more closes below the open. Price may be starting to trend lower.



The indicator may also highlight divergence. When price is rising but the QStick is falling, it shows that momentum may be waning. When price is falling and QStick is rising, this shows buying momentum in price may occur soon. The indicator can produce anomalies, though. It does not account for gaps, only intraday price action. Therefore, if the price gaps higher, but closes below the open, this is still marked as bearish even though the price may have still closed higher than the prior close. May could result in divergence which doesn't necessarily indicate a timely reversal in price.


   Example of How to Use the QStick Indicator  

The following chart shows an 20-period QStick applied to the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



When the price is choppy, so are the buy and sell signals. On the left side of the chart there are many zero-line crossovers that did not generate profitable trade signals, nor identified the trend conclusively.



On the right-side of the chart, there were more trending periods in the price. During this period the QStick did a better job of identifying the trend, staying above zero when the price trend was up, and staying below zero when the price trend was down.


   The Difference Between the QStick Indicator and Rate of Change (ROC)  

QStick looks at the difference between open and closing prices, and then takes an average of that difference. The ROC indicator looks at the difference between the current closing price and a closing price 'n' periods ago. That amount is then divided by the close 'n' periods ago and then multiplied by 100. The indicators are similar but look at slightly different data are calculated differently, so they will have slightly different trade signals.


   Limitations of Using the QStick Indicator  

The QStick indicator only looks at historical data, and takes a moving average of it. Therefore, it is not inherently predictive, and its movements will typically lag behind the actual movements in price.



The QStick can produce anomalies when the price is gapping in one direction but the intraday price action moves the other. This may cause divergences between the price and the indicator but may not necessarily indicate a timely reversal in price.



The trade signals may not necessarily be ideal, and often need to be combined with some other filter. In choppy conditions the price will whipsaw across the zero line and/or signal line, generating numerous losing trades.
What Is Qtum?  

Qtum is a cryptocurrency that combines Ethereum’s smart contract functionality with the security of Bitcoin’s unspent transaction output model (UTXO) to create a platform that is suitable for adoption by large organizations. Qtum was founded in 2016 by Patrick Dai, Jordan Earls, and Neil Mahl, and its initial coin offering (ICO) was held in March 2017.



As of August 2022, the coin was ranked #98 by overall market cap, with the price hovering around $3.48 with a market cap of $363.15 million.





Key Takeaways

Qtum is a cryptocurrency that combines the security of Bitcoin's blockchain model and the flexibility of Ethereum's smart contracts.It uses a proof-of-stake consensus model for creating new blocks, which is far easier and less energy-intensive than Bitcoin's proof-of-work model.Qtum is designed for use by large organizations, with the goal of becoming integral to a range of industries, including finance and social media.


   Understanding Qtum  

The founders of Qtum (pronounced "quantum") sought to combine some of the best aspects of both Bitcoin and Ethereum, with the goal of becoming a secure exchange for business-focused decentralized applications (dApps). Qtum hopes to disrupt the online transactions market and become an integral part of industries such as finance and social networking. Its currency is called a token.



One core element of Qtum borrowed from Bitcoin is the UTXO model, a sort of accounting system used by Bitcoin that provides a high level of transactional security. The UXTO system provides a type of receipt for unspent coins after a transaction. Qtum copied and reworked Bitcoin's UTXO code for its own platform.



Qtum borrowed smart contracts from Ethereum. Smart contracts are blocks of self-executing code that, once verified on the blockchain, carry out the terms of the deal, making the contract irrevocable.


   Qtum, Bitcoin, and Ethereum  

While Qtum borrowed from both Bitcoin and Ethereum, it differs from both of its much-bigger competitors in key ways. To begin with, Qtum deployed what it calls the Account Abstraction Layer (AAL), the technology that enables the use of smart contracts in conjunction with the UTXO model. AAL enables the UTXO and smart contract models to interact.



Qtum also uses a proof-of-stake (PoS) consensus model rather than the proof-of-work model used by Bitcoin. This makes it easier to mine new coins. Bitcoin’s PoW approach is resource-intensive, causing the computer networks mining its coins to consume more electricity annually than many entire countries. A PoS approach simplifies the process and results in much less power consumption.



With a PoS system, miners are chosen to verify blocks based on their own stakes in the system, rather than who can solve a complex math problem the fastest. The bigger the stake, the greater the user's chance of being selected to verify the transactions.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Quadrix?  

Quadrix is a stock rating system that uses over 90 variables in seven major categories to determine the value of a stock. The Quadrix system is produced and maintained by Horizon Publishing Company. The seven major categories are momentum, quality, value, financial strength, earnings estimates, performance, and reversion. The overall score for a particular stock is determined by a weighted average of all 90 variables.



The Quadrix system was developed by Horizon Investment Services’ Chief Investment Officer, Rich Moroney and has been publishing scores for stocks since the year 2000.





Key Takeaways

Quadrix is a proprietary stock screening system.The screener looks at publicly traded stocks in the U.S. including some ADRs of foreign companies listed on U.S. exchanges.Quadrix is not a risk-based portfolio builder based on modern portfolio theory of the kind used by many roboadvisors.


   How Quadrix Works  

Quadrix is a stock evaluation tool that rates stocks based on variable scores that fall into one of seven categories. The seven categories of variables used in Quadrix are momentum, quality, value, financial strength, forecasted earnings, performance, and reversion. The Quadrix system can also be used as a tool for tracking industry group performance.



Quadrix is a first stock screen for building portfolios. The system looks at the given set of 90 variables in a universe of over 4,000 stocks. It is intended to narrow the universe of acceptable stocks under consideration by an investor. It is not a risk-based portfolio builder like some robo-advisors.


   Examples and Uses of Quadrix  

Quadrix is used in-house by Horizon Publishing to screen stocks for clients, and it is available for subscribers to Horizon's newsletter products. As mentioned above, it is not a risk-based portfolio builder, and it does not rely on Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) to weight stocks or evaluate risk versus return for the investor.
What Is Quadruple Witching?  

The term quadruple witching refers to the simultaneous expiration four times a year of stock options, index futures, and index futures options derivatives contracts. The fourth type of contract involved in quadruple witching, single-stock futures, hasn't traded in the U.S. since 2020 and was never a major contributor to equity trading volumes. What is now effectively "triple witching" occurs on the third Friday of March, June, September, and December. Equity trading volume tends to rise on these days and is typically heaviest during the last hour of trading as traders adjust their portfolios.





Key Takeaways

Quadruple witching refers to the simultaneous expiration of stock index futures, stock index options, stock options, and single stock futures derivatives contracts four times a year.Quadruple witching has given way to triple witching since single stock futures stopped trading in the U.S. in 2020.This event occurs once every quarter, on the third Friday of March, June, September, and December.Trading volume typically surges on triple witching days as traders adjust portfolios and roll some contracts.Triple witching does not usually cause increased market volatility.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Quadruple Witching  

The four derivatives contracts accounting for the 'quadruple' in quadruple witching are stock index futures, stock index options, stock options, and single stock futures. While single stock futures now only trade outside the U.S., the quarterly expiration of index futures and index options, coinciding with the monthly stock options expiration, produces a flurry of trading.



Despite the evocative name, what happens during what is now triple witching is not a supernatural phenomenon, nor a mystery. Market makers who've sold expiring stock and index options contracts close out the matched hedge positions, boosting trading volume. Meanwhile, the rolling of contracts ahead of expiration also increases turnover in the options and futures markets.



An additional factor is quarterly index rebalancing, also known as reconstitution, taking place on the "witching" day. That means portfolio managers tracking rebalancing indexes including those from S&P Dow Jones in the U.S. and FTSE in the U.K. may need to make trades reflective of index changes.


   Types of Contracts Involved in Quadruple Witching  

Now that you know what quadruple witchings are all about, let's take a look at the four classes of contracts that can expire on these dates.


  Stock Options  

Options are derivatives, which means they derive their value from underlying securities such as stocks. Options contracts give a buyer the right, but not the obligation, to trade a set number of shares of the underlying security at a specified strike price at any time before options expiration.



There are two types of options:



A call option may be purchased to speculate on a price increase in a particular stock. If the share price is higher than the strike price on the option's expiration date, the investor can exercise the option to buy 100 shares of the stock at the strike price and resell them at the higher market price, or may simply sell the option at a profit before expiration.
A put option lets an investor profit from a decline in a stock's share price, as long as the price is below the strike at expiration.



Monthly stock options contracts expire on the third Friday of every month. Option buyers pay an upfront cost known as the option premium.


  Index Options  

An index option works much like a stock options contract, but derives its value from that of an equity index rather than a single stock's share price. The value of the underlying index relative to the option contract's strike price is what determines an index option trade's profitability. As with stock options, index options don't confer an ownership interest.



In contrast with stock options, index options are cash-settled. Another important distinction is that index options are European-style, meaning they can only be exercised on expiration date, while stock options may be exercised at any time before expiration.


  Index Futures  

Futures contracts are legal agreements to buy or sell an asset at a determined price at a specified future date. Futures contracts are standardized with fixed quantities and expiration dates. Futures trade on a futures exchange. The buyer of a futures contract is obligated to buy the underlying asset at expiry while the seller is obligated to sell at expiry.



Index futures cash settle at expiration at the specified price, with the value of the index at the time determining the trade's profitability. Like index options, index futures can be used to hedge a portfolio of stocks, limiting the damage from bear markets.



In a bear market, a trade selling a futures contract earns a profit, offsetting the stock portfolio's loss. The goal is to minimize short-term losses for long-term holdings.


  Single Stock Futures  

Single stock futures are obligations to take delivery of shares of the underlying stock at the contract's expiration date at a specified price. Each contract represents 100 shares of stock. Holders of stock futures don't receive dividend payments. Even when single-stock futures traded in the U.S. they were a minor market segment relative to the trading flows in stock options and index options and futures.






   Market Impact of Quadruple Witching  

One reason the combination of monthly and quarterly derivatives expirations generates heavy trading volume is that in-the-money options contracts are subject to automatic exercise, requiring the delivery of the underlying shares in the case of call options.



Call options are profitable when the price of the underlying security is higher than the option's strike price. Put options are in-the-money when the stock is priced below the strike price. In either case, the expiration of in-the-money options results in increased trading volume as the underlying shares are bought or sold to close out the options trade.



Despite the overall increase in trading volume, quadruple witching days do not necessarily add to market volatility.






While quadruple witching takes place four times a year, stock options contracts expire more frequently—on the third Friday of every month.


   Closing and Rolling out Futures Contracts  

Much of the action surrounding futures and options on quadruple witching days is focused on offsetting, closing, or rolling out positions. A futures contract contains an agreement between the buyer and seller in which the underlying security is to be delivered to the buyer at the contract price at expiration.



For example, one E-mini S&P 500 futures contract is worth 50 times the value of the S&P 500. So the value of an E-mini contract when the S&P 500 is 2,100 at expiration is $105,000. This amount is delivered to the contract owner if it is left open at expiration.



Contract owners don't have to take delivery on the expiration date. Instead, they can close their contracts by booking an offsetting trade at the prevailing price by cash settling the gain or loss from the purchase and sale prices. Traders can also roll their contracts forward, a process that extends the contract by offsetting the existing trade and simultaneously booking a new option or futures contract to be settled in the future.






The Chicago Mercantile Exchange delisted standard-sized S&P 500 index and options futures contracts in September 2021.


   Arbitrage Opportunities  

Over the course of a quadruple witching day, transactions involving large blocks of contracts can create price movements that may provide arbitrageurs the opportunity to profit on temporary price distortions. Arbitrage can rapidly escalate volume, particularly when high-volume round trips are repeated multiple times over the course of trading on quadruple witching days. However, just as activity can provide the potential for gains, it can also lead to losses very quickly.





Pros

Gives arbitrageurs the opportunity to profit on temporary price distortions
Increased trading activity and volume can lead to market gains



Cons

Market gains tend to be fairly modest
The potential for losses can be equally as evident as the potential for gains





   Real-World Example of Quadruple Witching  

There tends to be a lot of frenzy in the days leading up to a quadruple witching day. But it's unclear whether the actual witching leads to increased market gains. That's because it's impossible to separate any gains due to expiring options and futures from gains due to other factors such as earnings and economic events.



Friday, March 15, 2019, was the first quadruple witching day of 2019. As with any other witching day, there was hectic activity in the preceding week. According to a Reuters report, trading volume on U.S. market exchanges on that day was "10.8 billion shares, compared to the 7.5 billion average… over the last 20 trading days."


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Is Witching and Why Is It Quadruple?
In folklore, the late-night "witching hour" was a time of supernatural and occult doings. The appropriation of "witching" to denote the simultaneous expiration of stock and index options and futures contracts was meant to suggest the possibility of surprising market moves driven by the increased trading volumes associated with such quarterly events. In practice, single-stock futures had minimal market impact given the prevalence of stock options. Since single-stock futures no longer trade in the U.S., the quarterly derivatives expiration date is now often called "triple witching."




When Does Quadruple Witching Occur?
Stop options contracts expire monthly, while index futures and options typically settle on the third Friday of March, June, September, and December.




Why Do Traders Care About Quadruple Witching?
When several categories of derivatives expire on the same date, trading volumes tend to rise as in the money options are exercised while market makers square offsetting hedges.




What Are Some Price Abnormalities Observed on Quadruple Witching?
One interesting quirk is that the price of a security may artificially tend toward a strike price with large open interest as gamma hedging takes place, a process known as pinning the strike. Pinning a strike imposes pin risk for options traders, where they become uncertain whether or not options with strike prices near the market price will finish in the money and be exercised.
What Is a Qualification Ratio?  

The term qualification ratio refers to the measure of a borrower's creditworthiness that helps lenders decide whether to extend them credit. Used in the underwriting process, a qualification ratio calculates how likely it would be for a borrower to repay a loan.



Lenders normally use one of two qualification ratios in their underwriting process. The first is the monthly debt-to-income ratio (DTI) while the second one is called the back-end ratio, which calculates the monthly debt payment to income. Qualification ratios also determine the terms of any credit application including repayment terms and interest rate.





Key Takeaways

A qualification ratio calculates a borrower's ability to repay a loan, typically as a proportion of either debt to income or housing expenses to income.Lenders use qualification ratios to help underwrite a loan application for approval and/or the terms of credit that should be extended.Lenders use the front-end ratio in conjunction with the back-end ratio to determine how much to lend.Certain qualitative factors may also come into play, giving lenders some wiggle room to extend or deny a loan.


   Understanding Qualification Ratios  

Consumer credit applications provide lenders with a window into the personal and financial situation of applicants. Consumers are required to provide information such as their name, address, and financial information on these applications. This information includes employment information, income, and debts. Lenders use this information in the underwriting process to determine whether or not to approve a consumer's credit application for most credit products, especially loans and mortgages.



A borrower's housing expenses alone, which include homeowners insurance, taxes, utilities, and neighborhood or association fees, cannot exceed 28% of a borrower's monthly gross income. Another qualification ratio, the borrower’s DTI, includes housing expenses plus debt, and generally cannot exceed 36% of monthly gross income.



Higher ratios indicate an increased risk of default. But some lenders may accept higher ratios in exchange for certain factors, such as substantial down payments, sizable savings, and favorable credit scores. For example, a lender may offer a mortgage to a borrower with a high front-end ratio if they pay half of the purchase price as a down payment.






Lenders generally prefer a front-end ratio of no more than 31% or less for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans.



As mentioned above, lenders generally use one of two qualification ratios to determine the likelihood of repayment. This is based on the information provided by the applicant as well as their credit report.



The first ratio involves the applicant's total monthly debt to total monthly income while the other calculates the total monthly debt payments versus the total monthly income. These ratios take the total annual income of a household and divide it by 12. Banks generally use the lower of the two numbers to determine how large a loan to offer you.


   Special Considerations  

Qualification ratios are not rigid. Excellent credit history often mitigates a poor ratio, for example. In addition, some borrowers who do not meet the standard qualifying ratios take advantage of special mortgage programs offered by some banks. The added risk of default by these borrowers means that they generally pay higher interest rates versus mortgages that meet standard qualifying ratios.


  Credit Card Debt and Qualification Ratios  

Credit card debt also counts toward your back-end ratio, but this is much more complicated. Lenders used to apply the minimum payment on a credit card balance and call that monthly debt. But that system wasn't fair to credit card users who paid off their balance in full every month and used credit cards mainly for convenience and reward points.



Most lenders now look at the borrower’s total revolving balance and apply 5% of the total as monthly debt. Say you carry $10,000 in credit card debt. In this case, the bank tacks on $500 in monthly debt to your back-end ratio. 


   Example of a Qualification Ratio  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how qualification ratios work. Let's say you and your spouse earn a combined $96,000 a year, your family's gross income would amount to $8,000 a month. Multiply $8,000 by the 28% threshold required by most lenders and you’ll get the minimum housing expense that you can afford, which lenders call the front, or front-end ratio.



In this case, your family would be eligible for a loan if total monthly housing expenses do not exceed $2,240. Note this expense figure includes property taxes, homeowner’s insurance, private mortgage insurance (PMI), and charges such as condo fees. 



Now let's take a look at the back-end ratio using the same example. In this case, take the $8,000 monthly income and multiply it by the minimum threshold of 36%. This is effectively your debt-to-income ratio, and you'll get a figure of $2,880. Next, deduct any monthly debt payments from that $2,880. Let's assume these consist of a $300 monthly car payment and a $400 monthly student loan payment. This leaves you with $2,180 for housing expenses. Note that this figure is typically lower than the front-end ratio.
What Are Qualified Adoption Expenses (QAE)?  

Qualified adoption expenses are the necessary costs paid to adopt a child younger than 18 years of age or any disabled person who requires care. In the United States, qualified adoption expenses (QAE) are those expenses that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines as reasonable and necessary and can be used to claim an adoption credit or exclusion that reduces the adopting parents' taxable income.





Key Takeaways

Qualified adoption expenses (QAE) are the necessary costs paid to adopt a child younger than 18 years old or a disabled person who requires care.These costs may have been incurred prior to or after the legal adoption of an individual.Qualified adoption expenses are IRS-defined reasonable and necessary adoption-related costs, including court costs, adoption, and attorney fees.The maximum credit amount allowed for adoptions is $14,890 per child for 2022 and $15,950 for 2023.


   Understanding Qualified Adoption Expenses (QAE)  

The Internal Revenue Service allows you to offset your tax bill with a credit for your qualified adoption expenses as long as you meet certain eligibility requirements. To report your qualified adoption expenses, you'll use IRS Form 8839.



Eligible taxpayers use IRS form 8839 to provide the information required to claim the adoption credit on their federal tax returns. Taxpayers must provide the adopted child's first and last names, year of birth, and identifying number. They must also note whether the child has special needs or is foreign-born.



The tax credit for QAE phases out for taxpayers whose modified adjusted gross incomes exceed a certain threshold. Taxpayers may not claim the adoption credit for any fees paid or reimbursed by an employer or government program. They also may not claim the credit when adopting a spouse's child.



If you paid qualified adoption expenses to adopt a child who is a U.S. resident or citizen, then you may be eligible for the credit, even if the adoption has not been finalized or was finalized in a different tax year. You may also qualify for the credit if you paid expenses to adopt a foreign child.





$15,950

The maximum credit amount allowable for adoption in 2023.


   Maximum Qualified Adoption Expenses  

The maximum credit amount allowed for adoptions is $14,890 per child for 2022 and $15,950 per child in 2023. In addition, the adoption tax credit is no longer refundable, meaning that to recognize the full benefit of the credit, your total tax must be at least equal to the credit.



For example, if your total tax for the year is only $10,000, but you spend $14,000 in qualified adoption expenses, $10,000 is the most you can save in tax. However, if the entire credit is not used, any remaining amount can be carried forward for up to five years.



For the tax year 2022, as long as your modified adjusted gross income is $223,410 or less, you qualify for the full credit. The credit phases out as your income increases and goes away completely when it exceeds $263,410.



For the tax year 2023, as long as your modified gross income is $239,230 or less, you qualify for the full credit. The credit phases out as your income increases and goes away completed when it exceeds $279,230.



Taxpayers who adopt a child deemed to have special needs are generally eligible for the full credit in the year the adoption is finalized, regardless of their expenses.


   Examples of Qualified Adoption Expenses  

The IRS defines qualified adoption expenses under Internal Revenue Code Section 23(d)(1). Tax code explicitly states that qualified adoption expenses include:



Reasonable and necessary adoption fees.Court costs and attorney fees.Traveling expenses, including amounts for meals and lodging while away from home.Other expenses directly related the legal adoption of an eligible child.



These expenses may have been paid before an eligible child has been identified. An eligible child is defined as an individual who is under the age of 18 or is physically or mentally incapable of self-care.






Keep track of potential qualified adoption expenses leading up to a potential adoption. The IRS allows costs incurred prior to an adoption to be considered for the credit.


  Qualified Adoption Expense Exclusions  

The IRS also strictly prohibits the inclusion of several types of expenses related to an adoption for consideration as a qualified adoption expense. For example, qualified adoption expenses explicitly do not include costs a taxpayer pays to adopt the child of the taxpayer's spouse.



There are also regulations surrounding the timing of when the credit may be taken based on the timing of when the expense occurs. Dollar limits are also in place for costs related to a singular adoption effort in which a credit has previously been claimed.




When Can You Claim an Adopted Child on Your Taxes?
Assuming they meet all qualifications needed to be claimed, an adopted child can be claimed when the adoption has been legally finalized. Once legally adopted, the IRS treats the child the same as a biological child.




Can I Claim Qualified Adoption Expenses for An Adoptee Older Than 18 Years Old?
The IRS explicitly states that an eligible child relating to qualified adoption expenses must be under the age of 18. The only exception to this age restriction is if the adoptee is physically or mentally incapable of self-care.




Can Same-Sex Couples Claim Qualified Adoption Expenses?
Yes, qualified adoption expenses include costs paid by a domestic partner who lives in a state that allows same-sex parents.




Are Qualified Adoption Expenses Different for Special Needs Children?
Taxpayers who adopt a special needs child are usually eligible for the maximum amount of the credit in the year the adoption is finalized. This maximum amount is still reduced by qualified adoption expenses claimed in prior years and is still subject to MAGI limitations.


   The Bottom Line  

When a taxpayer adopts a child, certain costs may be leveraged to reduce the taxable income of the taxpayer and thereby reduce their federal income tax liability. The expenses must be reasonable and necessary for the adoption, and these costs can be incurred and claimed leading up to the adoption. These costs are reported on Form 8839, and deductibility of the expense are subject to income limits.
What Is a Qualified Annuity?  

A qualified annuity is a retirement savings plan that is funded with pre-tax dollars. A non-qualified annuity is funded with post-tax dollars. To be clear, the terminology comes from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



Contributions to qualified annuities are deducted from an investor's gross earnings and, along with investments, grow tax-free. Neither is subject to federal taxes until after retirement when distributions are made. Contributions to a non-qualified plan are made with after-tax dollars.





Key Takeaways

Contributions to a qualified annuity are made with pre-tax dollars.This means that taxes are postponed until withdrawals are made after retirement.Contributions to a non-qualified annuity are in post-tax dollars because taxes on the contributions have already been paid."Qualified" and "non-qualified" are IRS terms. A qualified plan has an immediate tax benefit.


   Understanding the Qualified Annuity  

A deposit into a qualified annuity is made without taxes being withheld. That effectively reduces the taxpayer's income, and taxes owed, for that year. No taxes will be owed on the money that accrues in the qualified account year after year as long as no withdrawals are made.



Taxes on both the investor's contribution and the investment gains that have accrued will be owed after the investor retires and begins taking an annuity or any withdrawal from the account.



While distributions from a qualified annuity are taxed as ordinary income, distributions from a non-qualified annuity are not subject to any income tax on the contributions. Taxes may be owed on the investment gains, which generally are a smaller portion of the account.



It is a matter of debate which is better. The non-qualified plan offers the prospect of tax-free income after retirement. However, the qualified plan offers immediate tax savings and a smaller hit on take-home pay during the person's working years.






No taxes are owed on money that accrues in a qualified account as long as no withdrawals are made.


   Types of Qualified Annuities  

Qualified annuities are often set up by employers as part of a company-sponsored retirement plan. Variations include the defined benefit plan, the 401(k) and 403(b) retirement plan, and the individual retirement account (IRA).



The defined benefit plan is a savings vehicle that commits the company to a specific payment, whether in a lump sum or in monthly installments, based on the employee's earnings history.A 401(k) is set-up by a for-profit company to reward its employees. The SECURE Act of 2019 now allows annuities to be included in 401(k) plans.The 403(b) is available primarily to teachers and some other public employees as well as workers at tax-exempt organizations.The IRA is the familiar savings plan that allows a pre-tax contribution up to a yearly limit.



An annuity can be qualified if it meets certain IRS criteria and follows its regulatory guidelines. Generally, an annuity that is not used to fund a tax-advantaged retirement plan is a non-qualified annuity.


  Other IRS Rules on Annuities  

Non-qualified annuities purchased after Aug. 13, 1982, are taxed under a "last-in-first-out" protocol. This means that the first withdrawals made by the investor will be taken from accrued interest, which will be taxed as ordinary income. Once that interest has been fully taxed, the remaining principal or premium will be free of taxes. All of the rules governing qualified annuities are covered in IRS Publication 575: Pension and Annuity Income.




What Is a Qualified vs. Non-Qualified Annuuity
Annuities can be purchased using either pre-tax or after-tax dollars. A non-qualified annuity is one that has been purchased with after-tax dollars. A qualified annuity is one that has been purchased with pre-tax dollars. Other qualified plans include 401(k) plans and 403(b) plans. Only the earnings of a non-qualified annuity are taxed at the time of withdrawal, not the contributions, as they are after-tax money




What Is a Fixed vs. Variable Annuity?
Annuities are generally structured as either fixed or variable instruments. Fixed annuities provide regular periodic payments to the annuitant and are often used in retirement planning. Variable annuities allow the owner to receive larger future payments if investments of the annuity fund do well and smaller payments if its investments do poorly. This provides for less stable cash flow than a fixed annuity but allows the annuitant to reap the benefits of strong returns from their fund's investments.




What's the Difference Between an IRA and an Annuity?
Both an IRA and an annuity can be classified as a qualified account by the IRS, granting certain tax benefits. An individual retirement account (IRA) accumulates value over time and is then drawn down in retirement. An annuity instead converts a lump sum or series of payments into a guaranteed income stream in retirement, often until the death of the annuitant.
What Is a Qualified Appraisal?  

A qualified appraisal is an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and is conducted by a qualified appraiser. Qualified appraisals are made no earlier than 60 days before a piece of property is donated.﻿﻿﻿


   How a Qualified Appraisal Works  

Qualified appraisal refers to a type of appraisal document that meets Internal Revenue Service (IRS) appraisal standards. These appraisals must be conducted by a qualified appraiser.﻿﻿﻿ Determining the value of a piece of property is especially important when making a donation, since an improper valuation can result in either a deduction lower than what the property could bring or a red flag by the IRS for a valuation that seems too high.



A qualified appraiser is an individual who has earned an appraisal designation from a recognized professional appraiser organization. This designation is awarded on the basis of demonstrated competence in valuing the type of property for which the appraisal is performed.



An individual can also become a qualified appraiser if they have met minimum education and experience requirements set forth by the IRS. One way an appraiser of property can demonstrate they have met these requirements is to become licensed or certified in the state in which the appraised property is located.



A qualified appraiser has also successfully completed college and professional-level coursework and has obtained at least two years of experience in the business of buying, selling, or valuing similar types of property.﻿﻿﻿


   Form 8283  

A qualified appraisal document is used to notify the IRS that the value of a piece of property is in excess of $5,000, and is attached to Form 8283 and filed with a tax return if a deduction is being requested. Form 8283 is used to report information about non-cash charitable contributions and is required if a taxpayer’s deduction for all non-cash gifts exceeds $500. Individuals, partnerships, and corporations can all file Form 8283.﻿﻿﻿



Form 8283 has two sections. The type of property donated and the amount claimed as a deduction determine whether a person fills out one section or both.﻿﻿﻿



Section A is used to report both donations of property for which an individual claims a deduction of $5,000 or less and donations of publicly traded securities. Publicly traded securities include securities with daily published quotations that are listed on an exchange, as well as securities that are shares of a mutual fund. Section B is used to report donations of property with deduction claims of more than $5,000 per item or group of similar items.﻿﻿﻿
What Is a Qualified Automatic Contribution Arrangement (QACA)?  

Qualified automatic contribution arrangements (QACAs) refer to a rule established under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 to increase worker participation in self-funded retirement plans. Such plans include 401(k)s, 403(b)s, and deferred compensation 457s. Companies that use QACAs automatically enroll workers in the plans at a deferral rate at or above 3%, unless employees take action to opt out.





Key Takeaways

Qualified automatic contribution arrangements (QACAs) are a form of automatic-enrollment retirement plan offered by employers.As an opt-out plan, employees will automatically be enrolled with a matching contribution unless they choose to leave the plan.QACAs have "safe harbor" provisions that exempt them from actual deferral percentage (ADP) testing requirements.A QACA must specify a schedule of uniform minimum default percentages starting at 3% that gradually increase with each year that an employee participates.


   How Qualified Automatic Contribution Arrangements (QACAs) Work  

Encouraging retirement savings at work has been a problem for economists and policymakers. Many employers offer 401(k) or 403(b) defined contribution plans. However, plan enrollment and contribution levels remain relatively low in actual practice. Traditional plans require opting-in, and research by Nobel Prize-winning economist Richard Thaler indicates that default options have a powerful influence on choices.



One solution has been to implement an opt-out plan, where employees are automatically enrolled and must elect to stop participating.






Do not assume that all money withheld from paychecks goes to pay taxes. Withheld funds are sometimes used for QACAs and other automatic-enrollment retirement plans.



Opt-out plans tend to raise participation rates. However, they generally start at employee contribution levels that are far too low to satisfy retirement needs.



Unfortunately, employees tend not to take any action on their own and continue to underinvest over the long term. Without educational efforts, many may not save enough to cover retirement expenses. For example, they need to be reminded that a 3% contribution is just a starting point.



Some argue that opt-out plans tend to lower retirement contributions because employees think low preset values are enough. To counter this possibility, some employers raise the employee contribution rate by 1% each year. However, that may not be enough for workers to reach their retirement goals.



As of 2022, an employer must do one of the following for QACAs:



Contribute 100% of an employee’s contribution up to 1% of his or her compensation, along with a 50% matching contribution for the employee’s contributions above 1% (and up to 6%); orDeliver a non-elective contribution of 3% of compensation to all participants.



With a QACA, employer contributions can be subject to a two-year vesting period. Firms must give their employees adequate notification about the QACA. They must also have the ability to choose a different contribution level or opt out entirely.



QACAs also have “safe harbor” provisions that exempt 401(k) plans from nondiscrimination testing requirements for actual deferral percentage (ADP). If additional requirements are met, the plan will also be exempt from actual contribution percentage (ACP) testing. A QACA also may not distribute the required employer contributions due to an employee’s financial hardship.


   QACAs vs. EACAs  

The Pension Protection Act defines two different choices for employers seeking to add an automatic contribution arrangement: QACAs and EACAs. In an eligible automatic contribution arrangement (EACA), the plan’s default percentage must be uniformly applied to all employees after providing them with the required notice. It may allow employees to withdraw automatic enrollment contributions with earnings by making a withdrawal election.



This election must be no earlier than 30 days or later than 90 days after the employee’s first automatic enrollment contribution was withheld. Unlike a QACA, employees are 100% vested in their automatic enrollment contributions with an EACA.



QACAs provide employers with safe harbor provisions that exempt them from ADP and ACP testing requirements under specific circumstances. Other plans must undergo such testing to ensure they do not discriminate against lower-paid employees.



In return, employers must make matching contributions as required by the IRS and must vest matching and non-elective contributions within two years. The default deferred contribution for a QACA must also increase annually from at least 3% the first year to at least 6%, with a maximum of 15% in any year. The maximum was 10% until it was raised to 15% by the SECURE Act of 2019.




Are QACA Contributions 100% Vested?
With a qualified automatic contribution arrangement (QACA), employer contributions are not automatically fully vested. Employer contributions can be subject to a vesting period of up to two years. 




Do More People Save For Retirement With QACAs?
Yes, QACAS increase participation rates for company retirement plans because they are opt-out plans, meaning they employ automatic enrollment. An employee must choose to opt-out of the plan. However, many employees who participate in QACAs still lack adequate retirement funds over the long term because they choose to just go along with the low preset contributions of a QACA and not increase their savings.




What Is An Automatic Contribution Notice?
An automatic contribution notice is a notification from an employer that an employee has been enrolled in either an eligible automatic contribution arrangement (EACA), or a qualified automatic contribution arrangement (QACA). Employers must notify all employees 30 to 90 days before the plan year begins. With plans that automatically enroll employees on the day of hire, the notice may be given to employees on the hiring date.
What Is a Qualified Charitable Organization?  

Qualified charitable organizations are nonprofit organizations that qualify for tax-exempt status, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). They must be operated exclusively for one of the following purposes: religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, testing for public safety, the prevention of cruelty to animals or children, or the development of amateur sports. In the United States, a qualified charitable organization is known as a 501(c)(3) organization, referring to the portion of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) that deals with the tax treatment of nonprofits.





Key Takeaways

A qualified charitable organization is recognized as tax exempt in the pursuit of philanthropic, nonprofit, or civic activities.Section 501(c)(3) is the specific portion of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and a specific tax category for nonprofit organizations.501(c)(3) organizations are not only tax exempt; donations to them may also be tax deductible for donors.


   Rules for Qualified Charitable Organizations  

Only donations that are made to a qualified charitable organization are tax deductible. Organizations that do not qualify for this status are considered for-profit and are taxed accordingly. Political contributions are not tax deductible, for example, because political parties are not charitable institutions. On the other hand, contributions to an organization dedicated to building hospitals in underdeveloped countries likely would be a charitable organization, and contributions would be tax deductible.



Qualified charitable organizations differ from strictly tax-exempt organizations, which do not have to be for a charitable purpose yet are not required to pay taxes. However, qualified charitable organizations are also tax free.



Qualified charitable organizations include charities, philanthropic groups, certain religious and educational organizations, nonprofit veterans’ organizations, fraternal lodge groups, and cemetery and burial companies. Certain legal corporations can also qualify. Even federal, state, and local governments can be considered qualified charitable organizations if the money donated to them is earmarked for charitable causes.






A qualified charitable organization is prohibited from engaging in any sort of political advocacy, including supporting specific candidates or trying to influence legislation.


   How the IRS Regards Qualified Charitable Organizations  

To receive the status from the IRS, qualified charitable organizations must meet requirements under section 501(c)(3) of the IRC. This means that none of the earnings of the organization can go toward any private shareholder or individual. The organization may not seek to influence legislation as a substantial part of its actions.



The organization also cannot engage in any political campaign activity in favor of or in opposition to candidates. There are also limits on how much lobbying these organizations may do in the legislative and political arenas. This includes not being allowed to participate, directly or indirectly, in political campaigns for candidates for public office. Furthermore, no contributions can be made on behalf of the organization for a political campaign.



Likewise, no statements can be made on behalf of the organization in favor of or in opposition to a political candidate. Programs that promote voter registration and participation in elections are permitted as long as no bias shows favoritism for one candidate over another. If the organization breaches such rules, it may lose its tax-exempt status.



There are further requirements for qualified charitable organizations. They cannot operate or be formed for the benefit of private interests. If an organization enters into any excess benefit transactions with someone who has significant influence over it, then the organization could face excise taxes.




What is a qualified charitable organization?
A qualified charitable organization must be a nonprofit entity that meets the requirements of the U.S. Treasury under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).




What is eligible to be considered a qualified charitable organization?
The list is expansive and includes organizations operated exclusively for the following purposes: religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational purposes, testing for public safety, the prevention of cruelty to animals or children, and the development of amateur sports. The various types include charities, philanthropic groups, certain religious and educational organizations, nonprofit veterans’ organizations, fraternal lodge groups, cemetery and burial companies, and certain legal corporations. Federal, state, and local governments can qualify if the donation in question is intended strictly for a charitable cause.




Is a qualified charitable organization exempt from paying taxes?
Yes. Indeed, not paying taxes is the primary reason to become a qualified charitable organization. However, if the organization violates Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules regarding how it must operate, it can lose its tax-exempt status. If the group does any political advocacy, for example, it would cease to be tax free.
What Is a Qualified Disclaimer?  

A qualified disclaimer is a refusal to accept property that meets the provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Tax Reform Act of 1976, allowing for the property or interest in property to be treated as an entity that has never been received. Section 2518 of the IRC permits a beneficiary of an estate or trust to make a qualified disclaimer so that it is as though the beneficiary never received the property, for tax purposes.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Qualified Disclaimer  

Sometimes, the costs of receiving a gift may be greater than the benefits of the gift, as a result of tax implications. In these cases, refusing the gift may be the tax-efficient thing to do. The disclaim of any gift or bequest is known as a qualified disclaimer, for federal income tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines a qualified disclaimer as an irrevocable and unqualified refusal by a person to accept an interest in property.﻿﻿﻿



Qualified disclaimers are used to avoid federal estate tax and gift tax, and to create legal inter-generational transfers which avoid taxation, provided they meet the following set of requirements:



The disclaimer is made in writing and signed by the disclaiming party. In addition, they must identify the property or interest in property that is being disclaimed. The disclaimed interest must then be delivered, in writing, to the person or entity charged with the obligation of transferring assets from the giver to the receiver(s).The document is received by the transferor of the property (e.g., legal representatives or the holder of legal title to the property to which the interest relates) within nine months from the date the property was transferred. In the case of a disclaimant aged under 21, the disclaimer must be written less than nine months after the disclaimant reaches 21.The disclaimant does not accept the interest or any of its benefits. In effect, once an individual has accepted the property, they cannot disclaim it.As a result of such refusal, the interest passes without any direction on the part of the person making the disclaimer and passes either to the spouse of the decedent, or to a person other than the person making the disclaimer.﻿﻿



Only if these four requirements are met can the disclaimant be treated as if they never received the gift in the first place. The disclaimed property is then passed to the "contingent beneficiary" by default, that is, to a party other than the original stated beneficiary of the gift or bequest. Basically, the property passes to the contingent beneficiary without any tax consequence to the person disclaiming the property, provided the disclaimer is qualified. Under federal tax law, if an individual makes a "qualified disclaimer" with respect to an interest in property, the disclaimed interest is treated as if the interest had never been transferred to that person, for gift, estate, and generational-skipping transfer (GST) tax purposes. Thus, a person that makes a qualified disclaimer will not incur transfer tax consequences because they are disregarded for transfer tax purposes. The federal law does not treat the disclaimant as if they had predeceased the decedent. This is contrary to many states' disclaimer laws in which disclaimed property interests are transferred as if the disclaimant had predeceased the donor or decedent.﻿﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A qualified disclaimer is a part of the U.S. tax code that allows estate assets to pass to a beneficiary without being subject to income tax.Legally, the disclaimer portrays the transfer of assets as if the intended beneficiary never actually received them.For a disclaimer to qualify, it must meet four requirements spelled out in writing and consistent with federal law.


   Qualified Disclaimer Regulations and Estate Planning  

Due to the strict regulations that determine whether disclaimers are considered "qualified" according to the standards of the IRC, it is essential that the renouncing party understand the risk involved in disclaiming property. In most cases, the tax consequences of receiving property fall far short of the value of the property itself. It is usually more beneficial to accept the property, pay the taxes on it, and then sell the property, instead of disclaiming interest in it.



If a disclaimer does not meet the four requirements listed above, then it is a non qualified disclaimer. In this case, the disclaimant, rather than the decedent, is treated as having transferred the interest in the property to the contingent beneficiary. Additionally, the disclaimant is treated as the transferor for gift tax purposes and will need to apply the gift tax rules to determine whether a taxable gift was made to the contingent beneficiary.﻿﻿﻿



When used for succession planning, qualified disclaimers should be used in light of the wishes of the deceased, the beneficiary, and the contingent beneficiary.
What Is a Qualified Distribution?  

The term "qualified distribution" refers to a withdrawal from a qualified retirement plan. These distributions are penalty-free and can be tax-free, depending on the retirement account. Eligible plans from which a qualified distribution can be made include 401(k)s and 403(b)s. Qualified distributions come with certain conditions and restrictions set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) so that the tax benefits and retirement-savings purpose of the plans aren't taken advantage of by investors.





Key Takeaways

A qualified distribution is a withdrawal from a qualified retirement plan such as a 401(k) plan, 403(b) plan, or IRA.Qualified distributions come with tax and penalty conditions set by the IRS to keep investors from using funds for purposes other than retirement.Tax-deferred plans require account holders to be at least 59½ years of age to make a qualified distribution.Qualified distributions from Roth IRAs include the 59½ age requirement and require the account to be open for at least five tax years before making a withdrawal.Taxable portions of non-qualified distributions are subject to a 10% early withdrawal penalty by the IRS.


   How Qualified Distributions Work  

The government wants to encourage people to save for their later years. It offers substantial tax benefits to those who save in qualified retirement accounts. As a result, many people pay into qualified plans in order to save for retirement. These plans include IRAs, 401(k)s, and 403(b)s.



To make sure people don't abuse these accounts and use them for reasons other than retirement or to avoid paying taxes, the IRS imposes taxes and penalties on withdrawals that don't meet the qualified distribution criteria. This means that if you withdraw money and the withdrawal does not meet the criteria for the account, you will be taxed and could pay an additional tax penalty.



However, if you meet the conditions, you can make a qualified distribution. For Roth accounts, you'll pay no taxes or penalties on qualified distributions. For tax-deferred accounts such as a traditional IRA or a 401(k), you'll pay no penalty but will owe taxes.






The rules for what constitutes a qualified distribution vary based on the type of account, so it's important to know what they are before you consider making a withdrawal.


  Tax-Deferred Accounts  

Tax-deferred retirement plans require that the account holder be at least 59½ years of age to take a qualified distribution. Although the account owner will have to pay income tax on a tax-deferred plan qualified distribution, there will be no early withdrawal penalty. Tax-deferred plans include traditional IRAs, simplified employee pension IRAs, savings incentive match plans for employees IRAs, traditional 401(k)s, and traditional 403(b)s.


  Roth IRAs  

Unlike traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs do not provide a tax deduction for contributions. In other words, Roths are funded with after-tax dollars. However, Roth IRAs do provide tax-free withdrawals, as long as certain criteria are satisfied. The criteria for a qualified withdrawal are:



The owner of the account must have had the Roth IRA open for at least five tax years. Tax years count from January 1 of the first tax year when a contribution was made.The owner must be 59½ years old or permanently disabled, taking withdrawals from an inherited account, or taking out up to $10,000 as a first-time homebuyer.



If the distribution is qualified, you'll pay no taxes on a Roth IRA withdrawal. However, if you fail to meet these requirements, the withdrawal will not be considered a qualified distribution and you'll owe taxes and penalties on earnings.


  Designated Roth Accounts  

Designated Roth accounts are employer-sponsored plans, such as a Roth 401(k) or Roth 403(b), with an after-tax savings option. These plans also have two requirements for qualified, tax-free distributions. The first is the same as the Roth IRA—the account must have been opened for at least five tax years. The second requires the account holder to be at least 59½ years of age, permanently disabled, or taking withdrawals from an inherited account. Whether or not you are buying a first home won't help you in this case.


   Special Considerations  

If you make an early withdrawal, a 10% early withdrawal penalty will apply to the taxable portion of your non-qualified distributions, unless an exception applies. For tax-deferred accounts, that means the entire distribution will be taxed unless you've made nondeductible contributions.



For designated Roth accounts, early withdrawals are apportioned between your contributions, which are tax free and, therefore, penalty free and your earnings, which are taxed and penalized. For Roth IRAs, early withdrawals apply to all your after-tax contributions before earnings are even considered. Those are tax- and penalty-free withdrawals. Subsequent early withdrawals are then taxed and penalized.



If you are taking an early, taxable withdrawal, you can avoid all or a portion of the penalty (but not the income taxes) if you qualify for an exception. You can qualify if you:



Are permanently disabledWithdraw funds as a beneficiaryTake a qualified reservist distribution—a distribution made from a retirement account to a military reservist or member of the National Guard called to active duty



If you're taking an early withdrawal from an employer plan, you avoid the penalty if you're at least 55 years old when you leave your job. Penalty exceptions for IRA account holders include first-time homebuyer expenses up to $10,000, medical insurance premiums when unemployed, and use of funds for qualified higher education expenses.



Additional rules pertaining to certain qualified retirement accounts include required minimum distributions (RMDs) after the account holder turns 73 (as of 2023). For 401(k) accounts, there is an exception to this. If you still work for the company that sponsors your 401(k) when you turn 73 and you don't own more than 5% of the company, it's possible to avoid RMDs while you continue to be employed. Not all plans offer this so be sure to check with yours.


   Qualified Distributions as Direct and Indirect Rollovers  

Direct and indirect rollovers are key aspects of qualified distributions. Most rollovers—whether direct or indirect—occur when people change jobs. But some occur when account holders want to switch to an IRA with better benefits or investment choices.



In a direct rollover, the retirement plan administrator transfers the plan’s proceeds directly to another plan or an IRA. In an indirect rollover, a plan administrator issues an employee a check that is to be deposited by the employee into another plan, e.g., an IRA. With an indirect rollover, it is up to the employee to redeposit the funds into the new IRA within the allotted 60-day period to avoid penalty.




Why Does the IRS Penalize Withdrawals From Qualified Accounts?
The IRS penalizes early withdrawals to prevent misuse of tax-advantaged, qualified retirement accounts that are intended to be used to save for retirement years. It wants to encourage people to keep money growing in their accounts and discourage them from withdrawing it too early.




What Is a Qualified Distribution From a 401(k)?
It is a withdrawal made when the account holder is at least 59½ years old. Any withdrawal taken prior to that age will face taxes on the withdrawn amount as well as a 10% tax penalty.




Is a Direct Rollover a Qualified Distribution?
Yes. A direct rollover of eligible assets in a qualified retirement plan is considered a qualified distribution because the assets are transferred directly into another qualified retirement plan.


   The Bottom Line  

Qualified distributions are withdrawals from qualified retirement accounts such as 401(k)s, 403(b)s, and IRAs. To be considered qualified, distributions must meet certain IRS rules. If withdrawals fail to meet these rules, the amounts can be taxed at regular income tax rates and may face an additional 10% tax penalty for early withdrawal.



The IRS levies taxes and penalties on unqualified distributions to discourage individuals from abusing the long-term savings purpose and tax advantages of qualified retirement accounts.
What Is a Qualified Dividend?  

Ordinary dividends are payments a public company makes to owners of its common stock shares. It is their share of the company's profits and a reward for holding onto the shares. A qualified dividend is an ordinary dividend that can be reported to the IRS as a capital gain rather than income.



For some but not all taxpayers, that is a significant saving in taxes owed on the dividends. Individuals earning over $41,675 ($83,350 if married and filing jointly) pay at least a 15% tax on capital gains as of the 2023 tax year. If you earn less than that, you don't pay taxes on capital gains—you only pay income taxes.





Key Takeaways

A qualified dividend is an ordinary dividend that meets the criteria to be taxed at capital gains tax rates, which are lower than income tax rates for some taxpayers.Qualified dividends must meet special requirements issued by the IRS.The maximum tax rate for qualified dividends is 20%, with a few exceptions for real estate, art, or small business stock. Ordinary dividends are taxed at income tax rates, which as of the 2023 tax year, maxes out at 37%.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Qualified Dividends  

Dividends are separated into two classes by the IRS, ordinary and qualified. A dividend is considered to be qualified if you have held a stock for more than 60 days in the 121-day period that began 60 days before the ex-dividend date. It is an ordinary dividend if you purchase it after the ex-dividend date.



The ex-dividend date is one market day before the dividend's record date. The record date is the date at which a shareholder must be on the company's books to receive the dividend.



For example, imagine you owned XYZ stock, which declared a dividend payment on Nov. 21 and set a date of record for a month later, Dec. 19. If you bought XYZ stock less than 60 days before Dec. 19 and received a dividend, it will be counted as ordinary income on your tax return for that year.



If you bought XYZ stock more than 60 days before the record date and held it for at least 61 days in the 121 days before the next dividend, you'd pay the capital gains tax rate on the dividend.






The ex-dividend date is key. You'll be eligible to receive the next dividend if you purchase stock before the ex-dividend date. You won't receive the next dividend if you purchase it on or after the ex-dividend date.



Capital gains are currently taxed at a rate of 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on the taxpayer's income. If you have capital gains from selling collectibles or a qualified small business stock, you might pay up to 28%. Unrecaptured gains from selling section 1250 real property is taxed at up to 25%. So, most investors pay zero or 15%, with only the highest earners paying the 20% rate.



There are several other requirements for qualified dividends:



The dividend must have been paid by a U.S. company or a qualifying foreign company.
The dividends are not listed with the IRS as those that do not qualify.
The required dividend holding period has been met.


  Where to Find Qualified Dividends  

IRS Form 1099-DIV, Box 1a, Ordinary Dividends sent from your broker shows all your dividends. Qualified dividends are listed in Box 1b on form 1099-DIV and are the portion of ordinary dividends from Box 1a that meet the criteria to be treated as qualified dividends.


   Qualified Dividend Tax Treatment  

Qualified and ordinary dividends have different tax implications that impact your net return. The tax rate is 0% on qualified dividends if your taxable income is less than $41,675 for singles and $83,350 for joint married filers.



If you make more than $41,675 (single) or $83,350 (joint), you'll have a 15% tax rate on qualified dividends. If your income exceeds this, your capital gains tax will be 15%—at least to the upper threshold of the bracket.



Note that there is an additional 3.8% Net Investment Income Tax (NIIT) on investment gains or income. The IRS uses the lowest figure of your net investment income or the excess of your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) that exceeds $200,000 for single filers, $250,000 for married filing jointly, and $125,000 for married filing separately to determine this tax.



So, to incur the NIIT, your MAGI must exceed the previously listed thresholds.


   Other Qualifying Dividend Requirements  
  Foreign Companies  

A foreign corporation qualifies for the special tax treatment if it meets one of the following three conditions: the company is incorporated in a U.S. possession, the corporation is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States, or the stock is readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States. A foreign corporation is not qualified if it is considered a passive foreign investment company.


  Dividends That Do Not Qualify  

Some dividends are automatically exempt from consideration as qualified dividends. These include dividends paid by real estate investment trusts (REITs), master limited partnerships (MLPs), employee stock options, and those on tax-exempt companies.



In addition, dividends paid from money market accounts, such as deposits in savings banks, credit unions, or other financial institutions, do not qualify and should be reported as interest income.



Special one-time dividends are also unqualified.



Finally, qualified dividends must come from shares not associated with hedging, such as those used for short sales, puts, and call options. These investments and distributions are subject to the ordinary income tax rate.


  Holding Periods for Other Investments  

Preferred stocks have a different holding period than common stocks. You have to hold preferred stock for more than 90 days during a 181-day period that starts 90 days before the ex-dividend date.



The holding period requirements are somewhat different for mutual funds. The mutual fund itself must have held the security unhedged for at least 60 days of the 121-day period, which began at least 60 days before the security's ex-dividend date. To receive capital gains tax treatment in your mutual fund, you must have held the applicable share of the mutual fund for the same period.


   What It Means for Investors  

Most regular dividends from U.S. corporations are considered qualified. The question of whether you have qualified dividends or not can arise if you focus on foreign companies, REITs, MLPs, or tax-exempt companies.



If you don't stray from the big names in common stocks, you need only be careful to hold onto the shares long enough to qualify for the dividend payments.




Why Are Qualified Dividends Taxed More Favorably Than Ordinary Dividends?
The favorable tax treatment for qualified dividends is intended to give companies an incentive to regularly use a share of their profits to reward their shareholders. It also gives investors a reason to hold onto their stocks long enough to earn dividends.




What Are the Requirements for a Dividend to Be Considered Qualified?
Stock shares that pay dividends must be held for at least 61 days within a 121-day period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date.




How Do I Know If the Dividends I've Received Are Qualified or Not?
The online trading platform or broker you use will break down the qualified and ordinary dividends paid to you in separate boxes on the IRS Form 1099-DIV sent to you for the year. Ordinary dividends are reported in box 1a, and qualified dividends in box 1b.


   The Bottom Line  

For most individual investors, qualified dividends offer the chance of a tax break. The ordinary dividends of most American companies are, in fact, qualified dividends. The investor's only concern should be to qualify for the dividend by purchasing shares more than 60 days before the ex-dividend date and holding it until the dividend is paid.
What Is a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor? (QDII)  

A qualified domestic institutional investor or QDII is an institutional investor that has met certain qualifications to invest in securities outside of their home country. Institutional investors can be organizations or groups of investors that have a significant amount of money available to invest. QDII programs enable large domestic investors to invest in securities in foreign markets. Examples of institutional investors that might seek to become a QDII include insurance companies, banks, funds, and investment companies.



Popular QDII programs come from the People's Republic of China, where the main regulatory body, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), at times grants a limited avenue for institutional investors to invest in foreign-based securities. A similar outbound investment initiative in China is the Qualified Domestic Limited Partnership (QDLP).





Key Takeaways

A qualified domestic institutional investor (QDII) is an institutional investor that meets qualifications to invest in securities in foreign markets.QDII programs started in China in 2006 and allow five types of Chinese entities to invest abroad: insurance companies, banks, trust companies, funds, and securities firms.Entities that want to participate in the QDII program must first receive approval from China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), which is also responsible for establishing the investment quota amount allowed each participant.Once approved, entities are allowed to make investments in the overseas markets for both themselves or on behalf of retail clients.Firms can make investments in equities, fixed income, and derivatives in specified overseas markets.


   Understanding Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor (QDII)  

QDII programs are helpful in places where the capital markets are not yet fully open to all investors. Introduced in April 2006, China's QDII programs permit five types of Chinese entities to invest abroad: insurance companies, banks, trust companies, funds, and securities firms.



Entities must apply and receive approval for a license before they are allowed to make investments in the overseas markets for both themselves or on behalf of retail clients. Once approved, they can make investments in fixed income, equities, and derivatives in specified overseas markets. China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) is responsible for approving participants to enter the QDII program and for approving the investment quota amount allowed each participant.


   The 2015 China Stock Market Crash  

SAFE paused the QDII quotas after the 2015 stock market crash in China, which led to major capital outflows. Several factors contributed to the market downturn, including excessive margin loans from Chinese brokerages. This fueled a massive run-up in the market. A subsequent uptick in margin calls on borrowed positions led to a downward spiral of selling and increased volatility.



After two years, China began to grant licenses to global asset managers under the Qualified Domestic Limited Partnership (QLDP) program (similar to QDII). These foreign managers were allowed to raise money in China for investment overseas during a six-month period. Firms included JPMorgan Chase, Standard Life Aberdeen, Manulife Financial, Allianz, BNP Paribas, AXA, and Robeco and Mirae Asset. The motion signaled strength in the Chinese economy and paved the way for the revival of QDII.


   Revised Requirements for Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor (QDII)  

In 2018, Chinese regulators began to make several updates to these programs. For example, an institution’s QDII quota has a cap of 8% of its fund assets, excluding money market funds. In addition, if an institution has used less than 70% of its existing allocation, it will not be eligible to apply for a new quota.



In April 2018, SAFE said that it was considering further reforms to its QDII program following its economic recovery. Notably, 24 firms received new QDII quotas of $8.34 billion. Of the group of 24 firms, 12 are existing QDII investors, and the remaining ones are newly qualified.



The move brought total outstanding QDII quotas to over $98.3 billion. Chinese President Xi Jinping said he would continue to open up China's economy to other outbound investment programs as financial markets have stabilized and regulators are less concerned about capital flight.


   Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFII)  

Similar to the QDII program is the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) program. QFII permits certain licensed international investors access to mainland China's stock exchanges to buy and sell stocks. Prior to 2002, investors from foreign nations were prevented from buying and selling stocks on Chinese exchanges. The QFII program lifted these tight capital controls and gave some foreign institutional investors the authorization to trade on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges.
What Is a Qualified Domestic Relations Order (QDRO)?  

A qualified domestic relations order (QDRO) is a legal document, typically found in a divorce agreement, that recognizes that a spouse, former spouse, child, or other dependent is entitled to receive a predefined portion of the account owner’s retirement plan assets.





Key Takeaways

A qualified domestic relations order (QDRO) means—or is defined as—a legal document that may be issued by a court.This type of document is often used in divorce agreements.A QDRO recognizes that a spouse, former spouse, child, or other dependent is entitled to receive some of the account owner’s retirement plan assets.A court order cannot force a retirement plan to disburse any benefit not provided through the plan or require increased benefits from the retirement plan.In most cases, taxes must be paid on money from a QDRO.


   How Does a QDRO Work?  

According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a spouse or former spouse must report the QDRO benefits received “as if he or she were a plan participant.” The QDRO grants the spouse a percentage of the participant’s investment in the contract, with the numerator being the present value of the benefits payable to the spouse and the denominator being the present value of all benefits payable to the participant.



Once the distribution is made, the former spouse becomes responsible for any taxes due. The former spouse can, alternatively, roll over the assets received from a QDRO just the same as an employee could receive a distribution and roll it over into another retirement account. However, a QDRO distribution that is paid to a dependent, such as a child, is taxed to the plan’s participant.



If there is no QDRO and the account holder distributes retirement plan assets to the former spouse, then the account holder would be responsible for the taxes on the transferred assets.






In the case of a divorce or custody issue, a family court judge may issue a QDRO for a dependent.


   QDRO Requirements  

A QDRO is only valid for retirement plans covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). This includes qualified plans, such as 401(k)s. They do not cover IRAs.



To be valid, a QDRO must contain specific information:



Name and last known mailing address of the plan participant and each payeeName of each plan to which the order appliesDollar amount or percentage of the benefit to be paidNumber of payments or time period to which the order applies



The QDRO cannot award an amount or form of benefit that is not available under the participant’s specific retirement plan. Retirement benefits from more than one retirement benefit plan can be subject to a QDRO as long as it clearly states the benefits that are assigned to the former spouse. The provisions in a QDRO are not standardized and will vary based on the retirement plan type and the purposes of the order.






Some plan administrators provide a standard QDRO form.


   Limitations of a QDRO  

Rules imposed by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Employee Benefits Security Administration restrict specific provisions from being included in a QDRO. The court order cannot force a retirement plan to disburse any benefit amount or option that is not provided through the plan. In addition, the QDRO cannot require increased benefits, on the basis of actuarial value, from the retirement plan.



Benefits cannot be required from a plan for an alternate payee when those benefits are already allocated to another alternate payee under the decree of a previous QDRO. For example, in the instance of subsequent divorces and QDROs, the earliest takes priority for the designated benefit amount.


   Survivor Benefits  

Additionally, the order must not require the plan to pay the alternate payee in the form of a qualified joint and survivor annuity (QJSA) for the lives of the alternate payee and their subsequent spouse.



A QDRO may provide surviving spousal benefits to a former spouse under the plan. Benefits allocated to an alternate payee under a QDRO are not available for a subsequent spouse to receive as survivor benefits under the retirement plan.


   Other QDRO Beneficiaries  

In some cases, a QDRO might be put in place for a relation other than a former spouse. Dependents might also qualify to receive the ordered benefits. In such instances, the alternate payee is a minor or is determined to be legally incompetent. The order can require the benefit plan to make payment to an individual with legal responsibility for that payee. This can include a guardian as well as a trustee who serves as the agent of the individual.



The plan administrator who oversees the retirement benefits subject to the order will determine if a QDRO is a qualified domestic relations order. In these circumstances, plan administrators are then responsible for ensuring that their duties are fulfilled on behalf of plan participants and beneficiaries.




What Is the Purpose of a QDRO?
The purpose of a qualified domestic relations order (QDRO), which is typically used in divorce agreements, is to fairly divide assets in a qualified retirement plan. In addition to an ex-spouse, a QDRO can also recognize a child, or other dependent, as entitled to receive some of the retirement account’s assets.




Who Files the QDRO in a Divorce?
The ex-spouse typically files a QRDO. Some do so with the help of a lawyer. Standard QDRO forms are also provided by some plan administrators.




How Is a QDRO Paid Out?
There are number of ways in which retirement plan assets can be paid out. Options include receiving a lump sum, installment payments, or transferring the funds to another retirement account.


   The Bottom Line  

A QRDO is used to divide retirement plan assets in a divorce. It can only be used for retirement plans covered by ERISA. This includes qualified plans, such as 401(k)s, but not IRAs. Typically filed by an ex-spouse, a QRDO must be approved by both the plan administrator and a court.



While QDROs have specific requirements, they are not standardized. Each varies based on the type of retirement plan, how assets are paid, and whether or not there are dependents, among other nuances.
What Is a Qualified Domestic Trust?  

A qualified domestic trust (QDOT) is a special kind of trust that allows taxpayers who survive a deceased spouse to take the marital deduction on estate taxes, even if the surviving spouse is not a U.S. citizen.



Normally, a U.S. citizen surviving spouse can take the marital deduction, but a non-citizen surviving spouse cannot. 



QDOTs, like QTIP trusts, only allow the marital deduction if assets are included inside the trust.





Key Takeaways

A qualified domestic trust (QDOT) allows surviving spouses who are not U.S. citizens to take the full marital deduction on estate taxes.If you are married to someone who is a citizen of another country, it may make sense to establish and fund a QDOT.Placing assets in a legal vehicle like a QDOT provides a safety net for a surviving spouse who is not a U.S. citizen.As with any trust, it is crucial to meet all requirements and provisions so that the QDOT remains valid.


   How a Qualified Domestic Trust (QDOT) Works  

A qualified domestic trust (QDOT) allows a non-citizen surviving spouse of a deceased taxpayer to take full advantage of the marital deduction on estate tax for any assets that are placed into the trust before the death of the decedent.



This kind of trust is helpful for the non-citizen surviving spouse, who under standard tax laws, would not be eligible for the 100% marital deduction on estate tax.



As per the IRS, under Section 2056A, a surviving spouse is eligible for a 100% marital deduction of any estate taxes owed on assets. This means the surviving spouse pays no taxes on assets, with no limit. However, if the surviving spouse is not a U.S. citizen, the full marital deduction normally is not allowed.



In addition, a non-resident non-citizen cannot take advantage of the same estate tax exemption amount that applies individually or jointly to a U.S. citizen surviving spouse.



Forming a QDOT and putting all assets into the trust allows a non-citizen surviving spouse to take advantage of the marital deduction of 100% of estate taxes. It's also important to note that the surviving spouse can set up and fund the QDOT (if their spouse failed to) before the federal estate tax return is filed.



For surviving spouses who have not obtained U.S. citizenship for any reason, a QDOT is the best way to preserve marital assets. It is important to comply with all requirements and provisions of the trust for it to remain valid.



A QDOT only protects the assets of decedents who have died after November 10, 1998. In addition, at least one trustee of the QDOT must be a U.S. citizen or a domestic corporation authorized to retain estate tax. If all these conditions are met, forming a QDOT and placing marital assets into it can preserve assets for the surviving non-citizen spouse.






Any assets not included in the trust will not qualify for the marital deduction and will be subject to estate taxes.


   Limitations of a Qualified Domestic Trust (QDOT)  

Although a QDOT allows the qualifying non-citizen surviving spouse to take the marital deduction on assets inside the trust, it does not exempt the trust from paying the estate tax. It merely defers it until the death of the surviving non-citizen spouse.



At that time, the estate will be liable for Section 2056A estate taxes on all assets in the QDOT, whether or not there are surviving beneficiaries. This could reduce the value of the assets in the trust significantly for such beneficiaries.




Why Is a Qualified Domestic Trust Important?
A QDOT can be very important to the financial future of a surviving spouse who isn't a U.S. citizen because it allows for the spouse to take 100% of the marital deduction for estate taxes. Without it, the spouse wouldn't be able to take advantage of the full deduction amount.




Who Can Set Up a Qualified Domestic Trust?
A person with assets to protect for their non-U.S. citizen spouse can set one up. So can the surviving spouse, as long as the trust is funded before the federal estate tax return for the decedent is due. Contact a reputable estate lawyer for more information.




Does the Qualified Domestic Trust Eliminate Estate Taxes?
No, it simply defers them until after the death of the surviving spouse.


   The Bottom Line  

A qualified domestic trust is a legal document that's created for the financial benefit of a surviving spouse who is a non-U.S. citizen who otherwise would not normally qualify for the full marital estate tax deduction.



The trust defers estate taxes that will be due once the surviving spouse passes away. One trustee of the QDOT must be a U.S. citizen or a domestic corporation authorized to retain estate tax.
What Is a Qualified Electric Vehicle?  

The term qualified electric vehicle refers to a plug-in electric passenger vehicle or light truck that allows the owner to claim a nonrefundable tax credit after purchase. These vehicles must have at least four wheels, be designed for use in the public, and were not used for commercial purposes. The vehicle must be powered primarily by an electric motor that draws its charge from rechargeable batteries or fuel cells. The vehicle must be driven almost exclusively in the U.S. 





Key Takeaways

A qualified electric vehicle is a plug-in electric passenger vehicle or light truck that allows the owner to claim a nonrefundable tax credit after purchase.The vehicle must have at least four wheels, be designed for use in public, and were not used for commercial purposes.It must be powered primarily by an electric motor that draws its charge from rechargeable batteries or fuel cells.Vehicle owners may qualify for the full $7,500 credit, as long as they fill out Form 8936.The credit phases out after a certain period of time, which is based on the manufacturer.


   Understanding Qualified Electric Vehicles  

As noted above, a qualified electric vehicle is any passenger vehicle or light truck that is designed to be driven by consumers. As such, these vehicles are not intended for commercial use. They must run on batteries or fuel cells that can be recharged using plug-in technology. Consumers with these vehicles are able to claim a nonrefundable tax credit to offset the purchase price.



This credit can be found via Section 30D of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). The section originated from The Energy Improvement and Extension Act of 2008 and was later modified for vehicles acquired after Dec. 31, 2009, by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (AARA).



Additional amendments were made for specific two- or three-wheeled vehicles acquired between Dec. 31, 2011, and Jan.1, 2014, by the American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA).



To receive the credit, the vehicles must be acquired for use or lease, and the credit isn't available for resale. The original use of the vehicle must begin with the taxpayer predominantly in the U.S. There are three parts that must be filled out on Form 8936 to get the credit. Part I calculates the tentative credit amount while the remaining two parts allocate the credit between an individual’s business in Part II and personal use of the vehicle in Part III. 






President Joe Biden signed the $1.2 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act on Nov. 15, 2021. The bill makes investments in a series of areas, including the electric vehicle market. A total of $7.5 billion is set aside to build a network of charging stations across highways and communities in rural, disadvantaged, and hard-to-reach areas. This investment also aims to tackle climate change and create jobs in the American manufacturing sector.


   Special Considerations  

The amount of the full credit is $7,500. Individuals can receive $2,500 for vehicles acquired after Dec. 31, 2009. A vehicle owner can receive an extra $417 if it is powered by a battery that provides as much as five-kilowatt hours of capacity. The owner can get an additional $417 for every KWh of battery life above the initial five KWh threshold. 



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) phases out the credit, though. According to the agency, this takes place for a car company's vehicles "over the one-year period starting with the second calendar quarter after the calendar quarter in which at least 200,000 qualifying vehicles manufactured by that manufacturer have been sold for use in the United States."



A consumer may be eligible for 50% of the credit if they acquire their vehicle from a car manufacturer within the first two-quarters of the phase-out period and 25% of the credit if it's purchased within the third or fourth quarters of that period. Any vehicles purchased from a car company once the phase-out period is complete.



You can find a complete list of makes, models, and credit amounts on the IRS website. Keep in mind, though, that the phase-out period for Tesla vehicles is already initiated.


   Effect of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022  

The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-169) amended the Qualified Plug-in Electric Drive Motor Vehicle Credit (IRC 30D), which is now known as the Clean Vehicle Credit. It adds a new requirement for final assembly in North America that takes effect on Aug. 16, 2022.



Additional provisions will go into effect on Jan. 1, 2023. Further guidance on these provisions is forthcoming. You can get more information about this credit from the Internal Revenue Service.
What Is a Qualified Eligible Participant (QEP)?  

A qualified eligible participant (QEP) is an individual who meets the requirements to trade in sophisticated investment funds such as futures and hedge funds. These requirements are defined by Rule 4.7 of the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA).





Key Takeaways

A qualified eligible participant is an individual who meets the requirements to trade in different investment funds, such as futures and hedge funds.A QEP must own at least $2,000,000 of securities and other investments, have an open account with a FCM for at least six months, and have a portfolio that has at least $200,000 of initial margin and option premiums for commodity interest transactions.QEPs are similar to, but not the same as, accredited investors in that they are assumed to have a sophisticated understanding of the complexities of trading risky assets such as futures and hedge funds.


   Understanding Qualified Eligible Participants (QEPs)  

Qualified eligible participants (QEPs) must meet a set of conditions described by the Commodity Exchange Act.



They must own at least $2 million in securities and other investments, as well as at least $200,000 in initial margin and option premiums for commodity interest transactions.
They must have had an open account with a futures commission merchant (FCM) at any time during the preceding six months.
They must have a combined portfolio of the investments specified in the above requirements.



QEPs are considered to be more knowledgeable than the typical investor regarding sophisticated investments. Hedge funds, for example, are understood to be riskier than mutual funds, pension funds, and other investment vehicles. They are liable to see significant losses but produce higher-than-average long-term returns when successful. Hedge fund managers go long on assets they predict will do well in the future, while shorting assets they anticipate will fall in price. 



By law, a plurality of hedge fund participants must be QEPs. Hedge funds that limit their investors only to QEPs may obtain an exemption from several Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations. This exemption allows hedge fund managers more considerable latitude in their investment decisions, which opens the door for both more significant risks and rewards than other types of investments.



Hedge funds are blamed by many for contributing to the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis by adding risky, leverage-based derivatives to the banking system. These investments created high returns when the market was good, but amplified the impact of the market's decline.


   QEPs vs. Accredited Investors and CPOs  

Qualified eligible participants are similar to accredited investors in that they both must meet specific income and net worth requirements. The difference is that QEPs are assumed to have a sophisticated understanding of the complexities of trading risky assets such as futures and hedge funds.



Individuals who receive funds to use in a commodity pool such as a hedge fund are required to register as Commodity Pool Operators (CPO). CPOs must comply with the disclosure requirements of both the Commodity Exchange Act and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. While investors in hedge funds must be QEPs, hedge fund managers must be both QEPs and CPOs.
What Are Qualified Exchange Accommodation Arrangements?  

A qualified exchange accommodation arrangement is a tax strategy where a third party, known as the accommodation party, temporarily holds a real estate investor's relinquished or replacement property. Qualified exchange accommodation arrangements, while still subjecting investors to strict guidelines for the sale and purchase of like-kind properties, increase flexibility in the timing of sales, and simplify qualifications for the tax deferral.





Key Takeaways

A 1031 exchange is when investors can defer taking a capital gain or loss on the sale of real estate as long as the relinquished property is replaced by a like-kind property.A qualified exchange accommodation arrangement is when a third party temporarily holds a real estate investor's relinquished or replacement property.The arrangement helps investors defer a realized capital gain or loss from the sale of real estate by allowing them to complete a like-kind exchange. 


   Understanding Qualified Exchange Accommodation Arrangements  

A qualified exchange accommodation arrangement (QEAA) enables investors to comply with section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, which allows investors to defer taking a capital gain or loss on the sale of real estate as long as the relinquished property is replaced by a like-kind property.



Also known as a 1031 exchange, this transaction is a tax-deferred exchange that allows for the disposal of an asset and the acquisition of another similar asset without generating a tax liability from the sale of the first asset.



A qualified exchange accommodation arrangement is typically established by an intermediary who becomes the exchange accommodation titleholder (EAT). The EAT holds the property that was either relinquished or the property that was purchased, to allow time for the other half of the transaction to be finalized. A qualified exchange accommodation arrangement is essentially a holding arrangement for one of the two properties in a 1031 exchange. 



This is one of the benefits of a qualified exchange accommodation arrangement since it allows for flexibility in giving up and receiving like-kind properties so the properties can be held with the EAT until both are ready for the 1031 exchange. As a result, the arrangement helps investors to defer realizing a capital gain or loss from the sale of real estate while allowing them to comply with section 1031 of the tax code. However, an exchange must be completed for a like-kind property. Also, there are limitations as to how long the property can be held within an EAT, and a tax professional should be consulted before attempting a 1031 exchange.


   Properties and Qualified Exchange Accommodation Arrangements  

This tax strategy was recognized by the IRS in 2000 but previously was in use for many years. IRS approval of the procedure and establishment of specific qualification guidelines made investor compliance with 1031 exchange rules more straightforward. Because the purpose of such transactions was to hold a property temporarily, they also were known as warehouse transactions.



Before January 1, 2018, a 1031 exchange could include the exchange of one business for another or one piece of tangible property for another. However, with the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) in December 2017, a 1031 exchange is limited to real property. In other words, other asset exchanges, including machinery, equipment, vehicles, artwork, collectibles, patents, and other intellectual property as well as intangible business assets no longer qualify for like-kind exchange tax treatment.﻿﻿



As a result, a 1031 exchange can only involve an exchange of property with a like-kind property, and it must be for real estate held for investment or for productive use in a trade or business located in the United States. Properties are of like-kind if they have the same nature or character, even if they differ in quality.



In other words, whether one property is improved or unimproved, they will typically be considered like-kind. For example, an apartment building would be considered like-kind for another apartment building. However, real property in the U.S. is not considered like-kind to property outside the U.S.


   Taxes and Qualified Exchange Accommodation Arrangements  

Although tax liability is deferred and no gain or loss is recognized, the 1031 exchange must be reported on Form 8824, Like-Kind Exchanges. Form 8824's instructions explain how to report the details of the 1031 exchange. Form 8824 helps the taxpayer calculate the amount of gain deferred as a result of the like-kind exchange.﻿﻿


  Taxable Events  

Section 1031 allows an investor to give or receive cash, liabilities, or other property that is not like-kind in addition to the like-kind real estate exchanged. Cash, liabilities, or other property that is not like-kind and that is given or received in a 1031 exchange is called boot. Boot triggers taxable gains or losses in the year of the exchange.



In other words, if a person also receives other (not like-kind) property or money, (as part of the exchange), it must be recognized as a gain to the extent of the other property and money received. However, the taxpayer cannot recognize a loss.



The taxable amount that is not deferred by Section 1031 is the amount of the boot. The taxable amount that is deferred by Section 1031 is the capital gain or loss on the like-kind real estate exchanged. Gain recognized because the boot was received is reported on Form 8949, Schedule D on Form 1040, or Form 4797, as applicable. If depreciation must be recaptured, then this recognized gain may have to be reported as ordinary income.


  Exchange Accommodation Titleholder  

If under a qualified exchange accommodation arrangement, the property is transferred to an exchange accommodation titleholder (EAT) and held in a QEAA, the EAT becomes the beneficial owner of the property. Even though there's an intermediary, the tax benefits of the like-kind exchange still apply.



According to the IRS, property transferred from the EAT to the investor may be treated as property that was received in an exchange, and the property transferred to the EAT may be treated as a property relinquished in an exchange. This may also be true if the property due to be received is transferred to the EAT before the property to be relinquished is transferred to the accommodation titleholder.﻿﻿
What Is a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII)?  

The Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) is a program that allows specified licensed international investors to participate in mainland China's stock exchanges.



The Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program was introduced by the People's Republic of China in 2002 to provide foreign institutional investors with the right to trade on stock exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen. Before the launch of the QFII program, investors from other nations were not allowed to buy or sell stocks on Chinese exchanges due to the country’s tight capital controls.





Key Takeaways

Launched in 2002 by the Chinese government, the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) program allows certain licensed international investors the opportunity to invest in China's stock exchanges.The QFII program allows foreign institutional investors to buy and sell yuan-denominated "A" shares of Chinese companies.A similar program to QFII, the Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (RQFII) program imposes fewer restrictions on overseas investors and makes it easier for direct investment in China's domestic capital markets.


   Understanding Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII)  

With the launch of the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) program in 2002, licensed institutional investors were allowed to purchase and sell yuan-denominated "A" shares, which are shares of mainland China-based companies. However, specified quotas constrained foreign access to these shares. The Chinese government used these quotas to regulate the amount of money that licensed foreign investors could invest in China's capital markets.



The QFII program quota was increased from $30 billion to $80 billion in April 2012, a decade after the program launched. The quotas are granted by China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and the quotas can be changed at any time in response to the country's current economic and financial conditions. In an effort to attract more foreign investment, SAFE announced it was eliminating quota restrictions in Sept. 2019.



The type of investments that can be traded as part of the QFII system includes listed stocks (but excludes foreign-oriented shares), treasury bonds, corporate debentures, convertible bonds, and other financial instruments as approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC).






In 2019, nearly 300 overseas institutions had received QFII quotas totaling roughly $111.4 billion.


   Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) Qualifications  

When the CSRC first launched the QFII program in 2002, it mandated that certain prerequisites had to be met for investors to be accepted into the program. The CSRC determined these qualifications by the type of institutional investor who applied for a license, such as a fund management company or insurance business.



For example, fund management companies had to have at least five years of asset management experience and at least $5 billion of assets under management during the most recent accounting year. A certain amount of foreign currency, transferred and converted to local currency, was also mandatory for approval.



Starting in 2016, the CSRC began a series of reforms to the QFII program with the goal of attracting more foreign capital. The CSRC began to loosen investor qualifications for the QFFI program. In 2019, the CSRC announced simplified rules that removed the assets under management (AUM) criteria and years of experience needed by foreign investors.


   QFII vs. RQFII  

In Dec. 2011, the CSRC started the Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (RQFII) program. Similar to the QFII program, the RQFII program allows foreign investors the opportunity to invest in China's stock exchanges.



There are differences between the RQFII program and the QFII program, most of which have to do with easing restrictions on investors that made accessing the QFII program difficult. For example, QFII program participants must convert their foreign currency into renminbi before investing in Chinese securities. RQFII participants, however, do not need to convert their currency and can invest directly in China's domestic capital markets.


   Special Considerations  

Prior to June 2018, foreign institutions invested in China’s stock or bond markets through the QFII program could only repatriate up to 20% of its investments every month. Also, each time a QFII participant sought to move money out of China for the first time, they were prevented from doing so by a three-month “lock-up” restriction. However, that has now changed.



As of mid-June 2018, China lifted both the 20% remittance ceiling and the three-month lock-up period for all new and existing QFII participants. As an added incentive, China allows QFIIs to perform hedging to manage foreign exchange risks.



These new rules, along with the lifting of quota restrictions, are seen as China's attempts to make trading in their bond and stock markets more widely accepted among international investors. In 2019, China's securities regulator announced plans to eventually combine the QFII and RQFII programs as part of its reforms to increase foreign investor participation.




What Is a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor (QDII)?
QDII is a designation started in China in 2006 that allows five types of Chinese entities to invest abroad in non-Chinese markets: insurance companies, banks, trust companies, funds, and securities firms.




What Did the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) Designation Do?
Prior to 2002, investors from foreign nations were prevented from buying and selling stocks on Chinese exchanges. The QFII program lifted these tight capital controls and gave some foreign institutional investors the authorization to trade on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges.




How Can U.S. Individuals Invest in Chinese Stocks?
Individuals cannot qualify as QFII. Therefore, the easiest way for American investors to access Chinese stocks is to look for ADRs of Chinese companies listed on U.S. exchanges or via ETFs that track Chinese markets.
What Is a Qualified Higher Education Expense (QHEE)?  

The term qualified higher education expense (QHEE) refers to money paid by an individual for expenses like tuition, books, fees, and supplies to attend a college, university, or other post-secondary institution. These expenses can be paid by a student, spouse, parent(s), or another party such as a friend or another relative. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) provides individuals with tax incentives with respect to qualified higher education expenses.





Key Takeaways

A qualified higher education expense is any money paid by an individual for expenses required to attend a college, university, or other post-secondary institution.QHEEs include tuition, books, fees, and supplies such as laptops and computers, but expenses like insurance and health fees are not eligible.Taxpayers may claim QHEEs under the tuition and fees deduction by using Form 8917 with their completed tax return.Filers may apply for the American Opportunity Tax Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit as an alternative.


   Understanding Qualified Higher Education Expenses (QHEEs)  

Qualified higher education expenses are any amounts paid to cover the enrollment of a student at an accredited post-secondary institution. Expenses covered under this category include tuition, books, materials, supplies—including laptops or notebooks—and any other related expenses such as student activity fees. These costs can be paid by cash, check, credit card, or money from a loan.



QHEEs must be paid directly by the student themselves, their spouse, parents, another relative, or friend in order to qualify. These fees may or may not be paid directly to an eligible post-secondary institution. Eligible schools include private, public, for-profit, and nonprofit institutions. All schools send out a Form 1098-T—Tuition Statement for QHEEs to the student for tax purposes.



As mentioned above, QHEEs may provide individuals with a tax break in one of three possible ways. These include:



Tax-free accounts such as a 529 Plan or Roth individual retirement account (IRA) when distributions are used to pay QHEEs
Exempting early IRA withdrawals prior to age 59 ½ from the 10% early withdrawal penalty
QHEEs deductions on annual tax returns



These tax breaks help reduce the financial burden of attending a college or university and are provided on expenses paid during semesters, trimesters, quarters, or summer school during the tax year or for the first three months of the next tax year.


   Special Considerations  

As noted above, qualified higher education expenses are defined as tuition, fees, books, supplies, and equipment needed to enroll or attend a level of education beyond high school. These expenses are important because they can determine whether or not you can exclude the interest off of a qualified savings bond from your taxable income. Expenses that do not qualify include insurance, medical expenses, student health fees, transportation, personal living expenses, or fees relating to sports activities.



Taxpayers may claim QHEEs for reimbursement under the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) or the Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC). The AOTC is capped at $2,500 per student, while the Lifetime Learning Credit is limited to $2,000 per tax return. Also note that the LLC is only available to taxpayers with a modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) of $80,000 or less, or $160,000 or less for married couples filing jointly.






You can use Form 8863—Education Credits to apply for both the American Opportunity Tax Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit.



Filers can use Form 8863—Education Credits to apply for both credits. It's important to note, however, that you can’t take more than one type of credit for the same student and the same expenses. So, you can't take the AOTC andthe LLC for the same student in the same tax year.
What Is a Qualified Institutional Buyer (QIB)?  

A qualified institutional buyer (QIB) is a class of investor that can safely be assumed to be a sophisticated investor and hence does not require the regulatory protection that the Securities Act's registration provisions give to investors. In broad terms, QIBs are institutional investors that own or manage on a discretionary basis at least $100 million worth of securities.



The SEC allows only QIBs to trade Rule 144A securities, which are certain securities deemed to be restricted or control securities, such as private placement securities for example.





Key Takeaways

A qualified institutional buyer (QIB) is a class of investor that by virtue of being a sophisticated investor, does not require the regulatory protection that the Securities Act's registration provisions gives to investors.Typically, a QIB is a company that manages a minimum investment of $100 million in securities on a discretionary basis or is a registered broker-dealer with at least a $10 million investment in non-affiliated securities.On Aug. 26, 2020, the SEC adopted amendments to the QIB and accredited investor definitions that broadened the list of entities eligible to qualify in these categories.Under Rule 144A, QIB's are allowed to trade restricted and control securities on the market, which increases the liquidity for these securities.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs)  

The qualified institutional buyer designation is often conferred upon entities comprised of sophisticated investors. Essentially these individuals or entities, due to their experience, assets under management (AUM), and/or net worth, are considered not to require the type of regulatory oversight needed by regular retail investors when purchasing securities.



Typically, a QIB is a company that manages a minimum investment of $100 million in securities on a discretionary basis or is a registered broker-dealer with at least $10 million invested in non-affiliated securities. The range of entities who are deemed to be qualified institutional buyers also includes banks, savings, and loans associations (which must have a net worth of $25 million), investment and insurance companies, employee benefit plans, and entities completely owned by QIBs.



The definition of QIB is generally narrower than the list of entities in the broader accredited investor definition. The formerly rigid QIB definition had resulted in some sophisticated investors that had met the $100 million securities ownership threshold being technically excluded from achieving QIB status and hence ineligible to participate in Rule 144A offerings.



To remedy these technical deficiencies, and to better identify institutional and individual investors that have the knowledge and expertise to participate in the U.S. private capital markets, on Aug. 26, 2020, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted amendments to the QIB and "accredited investors" definitions.



The QIB amendments added a provision to the QIB definition to include any institution not already specifically listed in the definition of qualified institutional buyer but that qualifies as an accredited investor and meets the $100 million securities ownership threshold. The amendments also permitted these entities to be formed as QIBs specifically for the purpose of acquiring the securities offered.


   QIBs and Rule 144A  

Under Rule 144A, QIB's are allowed to trade restricted and control securities on the market, which increases the liquidity for these securities. This rule provides a safe harbor exemption against the SEC's registration requirements for securities.



Rule 144A applies only to resales of securities and not when they are initially issued; in a typical underwritten security offering, only the resale of the security from underwriter to investor constitutes a Rule 144A transaction, not the initial sale from issuer to underwriter.



Typically, transactions conducted under Rule 144A include offerings by foreign investors looking to avoid U.S. reporting requirements, private placements of debt and preferred securities of public issuers, and common stock offerings from issuers that do not report.



These securities have a degree of complexity that may make them difficult to evaluate for retail investors, and may thus only be suitable for institutional investors that have the research capability and risk management expertise to make an informed decision about investing in them.


   Securities Act Rule 144 and Exempt Offerings  

This rule governs the sales of controlled and restricted securities in the marketplace. This rule protects the interests of issuing companies because the sales are so close to their interests. Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 governs all offers and sales and requires them to be registered with the SEC or to qualify for an exemption from registration requirements.



Rule 144 offers an exemption, allowing the public resale of controlled and restricted securities, if certain conditions are met. This includes the length of time securities are held, the method used to sell them, and the number that are sold in any one sale. Even if all requirements have been met, sellers are not permitted to conduct sales of restricted securities to the public until a transfer agent has been secured.



The significance of exempt offerings has increased both in terms of the total amount raised and relative to capital raised in public registered markets. According to the SEC, in 2019, an estimated $2.7 trillion (or 69.2% of the total) was raised through exempt offerings, compared to $1.2 trillion (30.8%) from registered offerings.
What Is a Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP)  

A qualified institutional placement (QIP) is, at its core, a way for listed companies to raise capital without having to submit legal paperwork to market regulators. It is common in India and other Southeast Asian countries. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) created the rule to avoid the dependence of companies on foreign capital resources.





Key Takeaways

Qualified institutional placements (QIPS) are a way to issue shares to the public without going through standard regulatory compliance.QIPs instead follow a looser set of regulations but where allottees are more highly regulated.The practice is mostly used in India and other Southeast Asian countries.QIPs were created to avoid dependency on foreign resources for raising capital.Qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) are the only entities allowed to purchase QIPs.


   How a Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) Works  

A qualified institutional placement (QIP) was initially a designation of a securities issue given by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The QIP allows an Indian-listed company to raise capital from domestic markets without the need to submit any pre-issue filings to market regulators. The SEBI limits companies to only raising money through issuing securities.  



The SEBI put forth the guidelines for this unique avenue of Indian financing on May 8, 2006. The primary reason for developing QIPs was to keep India from depending too much on foreign capital to fund its economic growth.



Before the QIP, there was a growing concern from Indian regulators that its domestic companies were accessing international funding too readily via American depository receipts (ADRs), foreign currency convertible bonds (FCCBs) and global depository receipts (GDR), rather than Indian-based capital sources. Authorities proposed the QIP guidelines to encourage Indian companies to raise funds domestically instead of tapping into overseas markets.



QIPs are helpful for a few reasons. Their use saves time as the issuance of QIPs and the access to capital is far quicker than through a follow-on public offer (FPO). The speed is because QIPs have far fewer legal rules and regulations to follow, making them much more cost-efficient. Further, there are fewer legal fees and there is no cost of listing overseas. 



In India, 47 firms together raised Rs 551 billion ($8 billion) through QIPs in the fiscal year 2018. This figure is the highest ever in a financial year. However, as of early 2019, 30 of those 47 QIPs were trading below their original issue prices.


   Regulations for a Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP)  

To be allowed to raise capital through a QIP, a firm must be listed on a stock exchange along with the minimum shareholding requirements as specified in their listing agreement. Also, the company must issue at least 10% of its issued securities to mutual funds or allottees.



Regulations also exist for the number of allottees on a QIP, depending on the specific factors within an issue. Additionally, no single allottee is allowed to own more than 50% of the total debt issue. Furthermore, allottees must not be related in any way to promoters of the issue. Several more regulations dictate who may or may not receive QIP securities issues. 


   Qualified Institutional Placements (QIPs) and Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs)   

The only parties eligible to purchase QIPs are qualified institutional buyers (QIBs), which are accredited investors, as defined by whatever securities and exchange governing body preside over it. This limitation is due to the perception that QIBs are institutions with expertise and financial power that allows them to evaluate and participate in capital markets, at that level, without the legal assurances of a follow-on public offer (FPO).
What Is a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity (QJSA)?  

A qualified joint and survivor annuity (QJSA) provides a lifetime payment to an annuitant and spouse, child, or dependent from a qualified plan. QJSA rules apply to money-purchase pension plans, defined benefit plans, and target benefits. They can also apply to profit-sharing and 401(k) and 403(b) plans, but only if so elected under the plan.





Key Takeaways

A qualified joint and survivor annuity provides lifetime payments to spouses, children, or dependents.A QJSA generally requires at least a 50% survivor annuity.If the participant is in poor health, a QJSA may not be a good investment.


   Understanding a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity (QJSA)  

The plan document of a qualified QJSA plan usually provides the annuity payout percentage, but the general requirement is that the survivor annuity must be at least 50% and no more than 100% of the annuity paid to the participant. If the participant is unmarried, the annuity is paid under the incidental benefit rule or follows the minimum distribution requirements.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), "a qualified plan like a defined benefit plan, money purchase plan or target benefit plan must provide a QJSA to all married participants as the only form of benefit unless the participant and spouse, if applicable, consent in writing to another form of benefit payment." For more on QJSA rules, the IRS provides an information page. Rules governing QJSAs can be found in Title 26, Chapter I, Subchapter A, Section 1.401(a)-20 on the Federal Register.


   Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity: Features and Considerations  

Qualified joint and survivor annuities for married participants have the following features.



Retirement payments are made at regular intervals over retirement (primarily monthly).After death, the plan will make a monthly payment to a surviving spouse of at least 50% of the original benefit payment.



Like many annuities, a QJSA provides a lifetime benefit to a primary participant and spouse via monthly payments. As such, they should be factored into any financial planning and retirement income and expense scenarios. Such a product is not subject to diminishing payments due to poor stock market performance. QJSA distributions, once initiated, are not changeable.



Also, distributions in addition to the regular monthly payment are not allowed. If the participant is in poor health, a QJSA (like an annuity) may not be a good investment of the assets required to fund such an investment vehicle. Payments may also lose purchasing power over time unless adjusted for a cost-of-living increase.


   Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity Example  

An individual's employer-sponsored 401(k) plan offers a QJSA that provides a monthly $1,500 retirement income at age 65. It also provides for a $1,000 monthly retirement benefit for the spouse when that individual dies. That benefit is paid until the surviving spouse dies. The individual may choose to receive a lump-sum distribution of benefits, but only with the written consent of their spouse, witnessed by a notary public or a plan representative.



One exception is that a plan may pay a lump-sum distribution to a participant without first obtaining their (and their spouse's) permission if that sum is $5,000 or less. If a participant gets divorced they may be required to treat their former spouse as a current spouse as part of a qualified domestic relations order or according to the terms of the divorce. If a divorced participant wants to change their beneficiary of survivor benefits, they have to contact a plan administrator.
A qualified longevity annuity contract (QLAC) is a deferred annuity funded with an investment from a qualified retirement plan or an individual retirement account (IRA). They are available for purchase through many insurance companies.



A QLAC provides guaranteed monthly payments that begin after the specified annuity starting date. As long as the QLAC complies with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requirements, it is exempt from required minimum distribution (RMD) rules until the owner reaches age 85.





Key Takeaways

A QLAC is a retirement strategy in which a portion of required minimum distributions (RMDs) are deferred.The SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 allows individuals to move $200,000 from a qualified retirement plan or IRA to a QLAC.A QLAC allows taxes to be deferred that are normally required by RMDs.QLACs are available for purchase through many insurance companies. 







What Is An Annuity?


   Understanding a Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract (QLAC)  

A QLAC is an investment vehicle that allows funds in a qualified retirement plan, such as a 401(k), a 403(b), or an IRA, to be converted into an annuity.



An annuity is a contract purchased from an insurance company in which the buyer pays a lump sum or a series of premiums. The insurance company pays the annuitant beginning on a predetermined start date. How many years the owner receives payments depends on the type of annuity purchased.



The SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 allows individuals to move $200,000 to a qualified longevity annuity contract. It adjusts the $200,000 limit annually for inflation, and the legislation recently removed the rule capping QLAC premiums at 25% of the participant's total plan assets.



A QLAC provides a lifetime income once the preset annuity start date is reached. The longer an individual lives, the longer a QLAC pays out. Using IRA funds to purchase a QLAC helps avoid violating the IRS RMD rules mandating a minimum amount to be annually withdrawn from an individual's retirement account balances beginning at age 73 and increasing to age 75 in 2033.



A QLAC allows distributions to be delayed until a predetermined payout date but no later than the person's 85th birthday. A QLAC also allows a spouse or other party to be a joint annuitant where both named individuals are covered with the same conditions regardless of how long they live.





85

The maximum age to which QLAC funds may be deferred


   Qualified Longevity Annuity Contracts and Taxes  

QLACs have the added benefit of reducing an individual's RMDs, which IRAs and qualified retirement plans require. Limiting RMDs can help keep a retiree in a lower tax bracket, with a tax benefit and reduced Medicare premium.



Once QLAC income begins, an individual's tax liability will increase. The annual distribution is based on the account's value at the end of the preceding year. The promised benefit of QLACs can only be achieved if rules set by the IRS are followed.


   Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract Options  

One option to benefit from QLACs is by laddering them and purchasing one QLAC each year for several years. Such a strategy is similar to dollar-cost averaging, which considers that annuity costs can fluctuate along with interest rates. In other words, a QLAC could be purchased each year, lowering the average cost of the contracts.



All laddered annuity contracts can be structured to begin paying out in the same year. Each contract could also have its payouts staggered to pay out in different years based on the owner's age and when the income is needed. The first QLAC purchased could begin paying out at age 78, the next at age 79, and continue. However, RMDs are required at age 85.



QLAC buyers can add a cost-of-living adjustment to their contract, which indexes the annuity against inflation. Deciding on this depends on life expectancy, as the cost-of-living adjustment will reduce the QLAC’s initial payout.






The greatest risk of buying a QLAC is the financial strength of the issuing company.


   Example of a QLAC  

Shahana is 67 and due to retire in three years. She would like to save on tax liabilities from her RMDs. Based on her current retirement account balances, Shahana's first-year RMD is estimated at $84,000 when she turns 73.



She has investments in other assets, such as stocks, bonds, and real estate, which should provide her with an income stream during retirement. She also plans to consult part-time to stay current in her field.



Shahana invests $100,000 in a single premium QLAC account from her IRA savings to withdraw when she turns 85. This will delay her RMD withdrawal date for the $100,000 used to purchase the QLAC. When Shahana turns 85, she'll have guaranteed income from the QLAC for the rest of her life.



The money set aside in the QLAC is excluded from her IRA assets when determining her annual RMDs until she turns 85, resulting in lower current income taxes. However, she will eventually pay income taxes on the distribution amounts from the QLAC and likely a lower tax bracket at age 85.




What Is a Limitation of Purchasing a QLAC?
QLACs are inflexible and may not be suitable for all individuals. Once you purchase a QLAC, you lose access to the money until the annuity begins.




When Do I Pay Taxes on a QLAC?
When your QLAC annuity, your income, begins on the designated date in retirement, the income payments will be taxed at regular income tax rates.




What Is the Cost of a QLAC?
A QLAC requires only the investment from your IRA or qualified retirement account, paid in a lump sum to an insurance company or provider. There are no fees associated with the purchase.


   The Bottom Line  

A QLAC is a deferred annuity funded from a qualified retirement account, such as an IRA. You can purchase a QLAC from an insurance provider and set a designated date for your payments to begin. IRS rules stipulate that required minimum distributions begin at age 85 from the QLAC. Transferring money to a QLAC reduces a retiree's annual RMD calculated on other retirement accounts.
What Is a Qualified Mortgage?  

A qualified mortgage is a mortgage that meets certain requirements for lender protection and secondary market trading under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, a significant piece of financial reform legislation passed in 2010.



Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act are intended to protect both borrowers and the financial system from the risky lending practices that contributed to the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007. By creating greater incentives for offering higher quality mortgage loans in both the primary and secondary markets, the goal of the act was to lower the overall risk that mortgages create in the greater financial system.





Key Takeaways

A qualified mortgage is a mortgage that meets certain requirements for lender protection and secondary market trading under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act—which was passed in 2010 and created the rules that regulate qualified mortgages—are intended to protect both borrowers and the financial system from the risky mortgage lending practices that contributed to the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007.To be eligible for a qualified mortgage, borrowers must meet certain requirements; these requirements are meant to determine a borrower's ability to repay their mortgage.


   How Qualified Mortgages Work  

To be eligible for a qualified mortgage, there are certain requirements that borrowers must meet. These requirements are based on an analysis of the borrower's ability to repay their mortgage (according to their income, assets, and debts). These parameters require that the borrower has not taken on monthly debt payments in excess of 43% of pre-tax income; that the lender has not charged more than 3% in points and origination fees; and that the loan has not been issued as a risky or overpriced loan with terms such as negative-amortization, balloon payment, or interest-only mortgage.



For lenders who follow certain regulations laid out in the Act, qualified mortgages may provide them with certain additional legal protections. Under qualified mortgage rules, “safe harbor” provisions protect lenders against lawsuits by distressed borrowers who claim they were extended a mortgage the lender had no reason to believe they could repay.



They also provide incentives for lenders who wish to sell their loans in the secondary market (since qualified mortgage loans are more appealing to underwriters in structured product deals). Lenders who issue qualified mortgages can more easily resell them in the secondary market to entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These two government-sponsored enterprises buy most mortgages, which frees up capital for banks to make additional loans.



Qualified mortgage rules were developed to help improve the quality of loans issued in the primary market (and that ultimately may become available for trading in the secondary market). The majority of newly-originated mortgages are sold by the lenders into the secondary mortgage market. In the secondary mortgage market, newly-originated mortgages are packaged into mortgage-backed securities and sold to investors, such as pension funds, insurance companies, and hedge funds. Only certain qualified mortgages are eligible for sale in the secondary market.






Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.


   Special Considerations  

There are several exceptions to qualified mortgage rules. One exception is that points and origination fees may exceed 3% for loans of less than $100,000. (Otherwise, lenders might not be sufficiently compensated for issuing such loans, and these smaller mortgages might become unavailable.)



In addition, qualified mortgage regulations permit lenders to issue mortgages that are not qualified. However, there are rules that limit the sale of these loans into the secondary mortgage market and provide fewer legal protections for lenders.
What Is a Qualified Opinion?  

A qualified opinion is a statement issued in an auditor's report that accompanies a company's audited financial statements. It is an auditor's opinion that suggests the financial information provided by a company was limited in scope or there was a material issue with regard to the application of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)—but one that is not pervasive.



Qualified opinions may also be issued if a company has inadequate disclosures in the footnotes to the financial statements.





Key Takeaways

A qualified opinion is one of four possible auditor's opinions on a company's financial statement.The other auditor's opinions are unqualified, adverse, or a disclaimer of opinion.A qualified opinion indicates that there was either a scope limitation, an issue discovered in the audit of the financials that were not pervasive, or an inadequate footnote disclosure.A qualified opinion is an auditor's opinion that the financials are fairly presented, with the exception of a specified area.Unlike an adverse or disclaimer of opinion, a qualified opinion is generally still acceptable to lenders, creditors, and investors.The auditor's opinion is usually found in the third and final section of an auditor’s report.


   Understanding a Qualified Opinion  

A qualified opinion may be given when a company’s financial records have not followed GAAP in all financial transactions, but only if the deviation from GAAP is not pervasive. The term "pervasive" can be interpreted differently based on an auditor's professional judgment. However, to not be pervasive, the misstatement must not misrepresent the factual financial position of the company as a whole and should not have an effect on the decision-making of financial statement users.



A qualified opinion may also be given due to a limitation of scope in which the auditor was not able to gather sufficient evidence to support various aspects of the financial statements. Without sufficient verification of transactions, an unqualified opinion may not be given. Inadequate disclosures in the notes to the financial statements, estimation uncertainty, or the lack of a statement of cash flows are also grounds for a qualified opinion.


   How a Qualified Opinion Is Represented  

A qualified opinion is listed in the third and final section of an auditor’s report. The first section of the report outlines management’s responsibilities in regards to preparing the financial statements and maintaining internal controls. The second section outlines the auditor’s responsibilities. In the third section, an opinion is given by the independent auditor regarding the company’s internal controls and accounting records. The opinion may be unqualified, qualified, adverse, or a disclaimer of opinion.



A qualified opinion states that the financial statements of a corporate client are, with the exception of a specified area, fairly presented. Auditors typically qualify the auditor's report with a statement such as "except for the following," when they have insufficient information to verify certain aspects of the transactions and reports being audited.



A qualified opinion is not so severe that it indicates that a business is doing poorly or that a company has hidden or falsified information, but rather, that the auditor simply cannot give an issue free report. The auditor may specify that they believe the overall audit to be true and factual but will specify the area that they believe is the issue.


   Qualified Opinion vs. Other Opinions  

A qualified opinion is a reflection of the auditor’s inability to give an unqualified, or clean, audit opinion. An unqualified opinion is issued if the financial statements are presumed to be free from material misstatements. It is the most common type of auditor's opinion.



If the issues discovered during the audit result in material misstatements that would affect the decision making of the financial statement users, the opinion is escalated to an adverse opinion. The adverse opinion results in the company needing to restate and complete another audit of its financial statements. A qualified opinion is still acceptable to most lenders, creditors, and investors.



In the event that the auditor is unable to complete the audit report due to the absence of financial records or insufficient cooperation from management, the auditor issues a disclaimer of opinion. This is an indication that no opinion over the financial statements was able to be determined.
What Is a Qualified Personal Residence Trust (QPRT)?  

A qualified personal residence trust (QPRT) is a specific type of irrevocable trust that allows its creator to remove a personal home from their estate for the purpose of reducing the amount of gift tax that is incurred when transferring assets to a beneficiary.



Qualified personal residence trusts allow the owner of the residence to remain living on the property for a period of time with "retained interest" in the house; once that period is over, the interest remaining is transferred to the beneficiaries as "remainder interest."



Depending on the length of the trust, the value of the property during the retained interest period is calculated based on applicable federal rates (AFR) that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) provides. Because the owner retains a fraction of the value, the gift value of the property is lower than its fair market value (FMV), thus lowering its incurred gift tax. This tax can also be lowered with a unified credit.





Key Takeaways

A QPRT allows you to remove your home from your estate to reduce gift taxes.Property value during the retained interest period is calculated based on IRS applicable federal rates.Other types of trusts include a bare trust and a charitable remainder trust.


   How a Qualified Personal Residence Trust (QPRT) Works  

A qualified personal residence trust can be useful when the trust expires prior to the death of the grantor. If the grantor dies before the term, the property is included in the estate and is subject to tax. The risk lies in determining the length of the trust agreement, coupled with the likelihood that the grantor will pass away before the expiration date. Theoretically, longer-term trusts benefit from smaller remainder interest given to the beneficiaries, which in turn reduces the gift tax; however, this is only advantageous to younger trust holders who have a lower possibility of passing away prior to the trust end date. 


   QPRT and Other Trust Forms  

Many different types of trusts exist in addition to a qualified personal residence trust. Two additional ones are a bare trust and a charitable remainder trust. In a bare trust, the beneficiary has the absolute right to the trust’s assets (both financial and non-financial, such as real estate and collectibles), as well as the income generated from these assets (such as rental income from properties or bond interest).



In a charitable remainder trust, a donor may provide an income interest to a non-charitable beneficiary with the remainder of the trust going to a charitable organization. The charitable remainder annuity trust (CRAT) and charitable remainder uni-trust (CRUT) are two types of charitable remainder trusts.






Under two types of charitable remainder trusts, CRAT and CRUT, the donor receives an income tax deduction from the present value of the remainder interest.


   Example of a QPRT  

Consider a parent who wants to pass their house, which is valued at $500,000, to their child. Currently, the parent does not plan to move out of the house. To reduce the tax impact on their estate, the parent sets up a qualified personal residence trust for 10 years.



In 10 years, the house increases in value to $750,000. Because the house is under a QPRT, the $250,000 in gains will be tax-free. In other words, the parent will only have to pay gift tax on the $500,000 value of the house that is held within the trust. The value of the house also diminishes over the 10-year term.



The parents don't own the house at all at the end of the term. They must leave or enter into a lease agreement. And if the parent dies before the end of the trust’s term, the tax benefits will fail to apply. QPRTs may also have various caveats pertaining to the adjoining land, outliving the trust, and selling the home before the term’s end.
What Is a Qualified Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity?  

A qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity (QPSA) is a death benefit that is paid to the surviving spouse of a deceased employee. If the employee dies before retirement, the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity is paid to offer compensation to the surviving spouse for the loss of retirement benefits that would have otherwise been paid to the employee. As the name implies, QPSAs are paid only in the case of qualified plans.





Key Takeaways

A qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity (QPSA) provides monetary distribution to a surviving spouse of a deceased employee. The employee must be under a qualified plan in order for compensation to occur.The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) dictates how payments are to be calculated.There are rules to follow for survivor benefit payments to non-spouse beneficiaries.A QPSA notice is required if a retirement plan offers a QPSA.


   Understanding QPSA  

A QPSA provides a way for an individual to provide for their surviving spouse or another beneficiary should they become deceased prior to the institution of their retirement benefits. QPSA benefits are ones that must be offered with all types of qualified plans to vested participants. Some of these plans include defined-benefit plans and money purchase plans. 



The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) mandates how the payments for a QPSA should be calculated. Both the employee and the spouse must sign off on a waiver of QPSA benefits and have it witnessed by either a notary public or an authorized plan representative.



In some instances, a Qualified Domestic Relations Order (QDRO) is needed. The QDRO is a judgment or order for a retirement plan to pay child support, alimony, or property rights to a spouse, child, or another dependent of a participant.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a "QPSA is a form of a death benefit paid as a life annuity​​​​​​​ (a series of payments, usually monthly, for life) to the surviving spouse (or former spouse, child or dependent who must be treated as a surviving spouse under a QDRO) of a participant,” where there are set conditions that must be met. 






A QPSA provides a level of protection for a surviving spouse in the form of monthly payments for life.


   Special Considerations for a QPSA  

For QPSA payments to be made, the participant must have vested benefits and died before retirement. As well, if it’s a spouse that is to receive QPSA payments, they must be married for at least one year.



Some types of qualified plans may be exempt from having to provide a QPSA to a surviving spouse. This happens with defined-contribution plans, if the plans do not offer a life annuity option, or if the plans require the benefit be paid in full to the surviving spouse.



A QPSA notice must be sent to the participant if the plan offers a qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity. The notice must be sent when the participant is between the ages of 32 and 35, or within one year from when an employee becomes a plan participant if they are older than 35.
What Is the Qualified Production Activities Income?  

Qualified Production Activities Income (QPAI) is the portion of income derived from domestic manufacturing and production that qualifies for reduced taxation. More specifically, qualified production activities income is the difference between the manufacturer's domestic gross receipts and aggregate cost of goods and services related to producing domestic goods.﻿﻿ The tax-deductibility of QPAI is intended to reward manufacturers for producing goods domestically instead of overseas.


   Understanding Qualified Production Activities Income (QPAI)  

Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) mandates that Qualified Production Activities Income (QPAI) be taxed at a lower rate.﻿﻿ QPAI refers to certain income related to manufacturing that is equal to the excess of the business taxpayer's domestic production gross receipts (DPGR) over the sum of the cost of goods that are allocable to such receipts, and other expenses, losses, or deductions which are properly allocable to such receipts. Domestic production gross receipts (DPGR) are gross receipts from the manufacture, production, growth, or extraction of qualifying production property. A company that generates QPAI in a qualifying tax year qualifies for the domestic production activities deduction (DPAD).﻿﻿



U.S.-based business’ allowable DPAD generally cannot be more than 9% of its QPAI. A taxpayer with oil-related QPAI also must reduce the DPAD by 3% of the least of the following amounts – Oil-related QPAI, QPAI, and adjusted gross income for an individual, estate, or trust (taxable income for all other taxpayers) figured without DPAD.﻿﻿ In addition, the deduction is limited to 50% of the W-2 wages paid by the taxpayer during the calendar year that ends with (or within) the tax year. An employer that did not pay any Form W-2 wages (or have Form W-2 wages allocated to him/her on a Schedule K-1), cannot claim a DPAD.﻿﻿ The DPAD was in effect for small and large U.S.-based business activities between 2005 and 2017 and expired on December 31, 2017.﻿﻿



IRC Section 199 defines qualified production activities to include:



Manufacturing conducted in the U.S.Selling, leasing, or licensing motion pictures that have been produced at least 50% in the U.S.Construction projects in the U.S., including building and renovation of residential and commercial propertiesEngineering and architectural services relating to a U.S.-based construction projectSoftware development in the U.S., including the development of video games﻿﻿



QPAI will be the same as gross income for a business that engages in only one line of business, but businesses with multiple lines of businesses must allocate their incomes.﻿﻿



Individuals, corporations, cooperatives, estates, and trusts use IRS Form 8903 to figure their allowable qualified production activities income. QPAI and Form W-2 wages are figured by only taking into account items that are attributable to the actual conduct of a trade or business. QPAI does not include revenue generated from the restaurant industry, electricity or natural gas distribution, or real estate transactions.﻿﻿
What Is a Qualified Professional Asset Manager (QPAM)?  

A qualified professional asset manager (QPAM) is a registered investment adviser (RIA) that assists various institutions in making financial investments. The focus of a QPAM is on retirement accounts, such as pension plans.



QPAMs are beneficial to investment funds because if an investment fund or retirement plan is managed by a QPAM, they can then transact in areas otherwise prohibited by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)





Key Takeaways

A qualified professional asset manager (QPAM) is a registered investment adviser that assists institutions in making investments.The focus for a QPAM is on retirement accounts, such as pension plans.When employing a QPAM, investment funds can do business in areas otherwise prevented by ERISA. This is known as a QPAM exemption.Banks and insurance companies may qualify as QPAMs as long as they are registered investment advisers with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).A QPAM is also defined as a registered investment adviser with AUM of at least $85 million and shareholder's equity of $1 million or more.


   Understanding a Qualified Professional Asset Manager  

The criteria for qualifying as a QPAM are defined by ERISA. Regulated institutions, such as banks and insurance companies may qualify as a QPAM. Under amendments that came into effect in August 2005, a QPAM is also defined as a registered investment adviser with client assets under management (AUM) of at least $85 million and shareholder's equity of $1 million or more.



Investment funds can typically benefit on a regulatory basis through the QPAM exemption. The QPAM exemption is widely used by parties who conduct transactions with accounts holding retirement plan funds.



Essentially, the QPAM exemption allows an investment fund that is managed by a QPAM to engage in a wide range of transactions that would otherwise be prohibited by ERISA.



ERISA prohibits certain transactions when an ERISA-governed plan or fund transacts business with an entity that may be conflicted in regards to that plan or fund. When a QPAM is in the equation, the restriction is lifted with practically all parties, such as plan sponsors and plan fiduciaries. However, such transactions cannot be entered into with the QPAM itself or with those parties that may have the power to influence the QPAM.



One big role for QPAMs is representing pension plans when they want to engage in private placements. The QPAMs role is to vet the private placement for the pension fund. Qualified professional asset managers may also assist investment plans with investing in real estate or other alternative investments.


   Qualified Professional Asset Managers and Prohibited Transactions  

A qualified professional asset manager may make a transaction that would normally be prohibited under ERISA section 406(a). Such transactions may include sales, exchanges, leases, loans/extensions of credit, and the provision of services between a party of interest and a pension plan. Using a QPAM can remove the risk of trustees being held personally liable for errors as long as they utilize the QPAM prudently. However, using a QPAM is not a shield for breach of fiduciary duty.


   Qualified Professional Asset Manager Qualifications  

The qualifications for a qualified professional asset manager are codified in Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 84-14 issued by the Department of Labor. They are:



The QPAM must be a bank, a savings and loan association, or an insurance company with equity capital or net worth in excess of $1 million or a registered investment adviser with assets under management in excess of $85 million and equity in excess of $1 million.
The counterparty must not be the QPAM or related to the QPAM or to the fiduciary appointed by the QPAM. A related entity is one where the QPAM owns 10% or more of the other entity, or an individual that controls or is controlled by the QPAM owns 20% or more of the other entity, or the person controlling or controlled by the party in interest owns 20% or more of the QPAM.
The asset manager must represent in writing to the client that it is acting as a fiduciary.
The QPAM must negotiate the terms of the transaction and decide on behalf of the plan whether to engage in the transaction.
The QPAM may not have been convicted of certain activities that could bear down on financial trust.
What Is a Qualified Reservist?  

A qualified reservist is a member of the military reserve who is not active, but when called to duty, is eligible to make an early withdrawal from a retirement account without incurring the usual early distribution penalty.



Under most circumstances, the IRS imposes a penalty of 10% on the taxable amount withdrawn from a retirement account by a taxpayer younger than 59½ years old. Qualified reservists are rare exceptions to this rule. Still, their withdrawals are subject to federal and state taxes.



To qualify, reservists must be ordered or called to active duty after Sept. 11, 2001, for more than 179 days or an indefinite period. Distributions need to be either from an individual retirement account (IRA) or from employees’ elective deferrals to a 401(k), 457, or 403(b). Also, distributions must be during the period of active duty.



Certain rules allow reservists to repay retirement account distributions during the two-year period when active duty ends, even if the repayment contributions exceed annual contribution limits.





Key Takeaways

Qualified reservists, when called to duty, can thereafter make tax-free withdrawals from certain retirement accounts.Qualified reservist rules are fairly recent, enacted as part of the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Initially, the rules only applied to active reservists on Dec. 30, 2007, or before. Many service people take their distributions early because of this, but it can have long-term negative effects on a retirement nest egg.Retirement benefits that are taken are still subject to certain state and federal taxes.Perhaps the biggest disadvantage of the qualified reservist rules is that missing even a single year of savings in a 401k or IRA can make a difference in retirement. 


   Understanding Qualified Reservists  

Qualified reservist rules are fairly recent, enacted as part of the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Initially, the rules only applied to active reservists on Dec. 30, 2007, or before. However, the 2008 HEART Act, or Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act, extended the rules for qualified reservists going forward.



The HEART Act gave U.S. service members and their families many forms of financial assistance as a further means of thanking and compensating them for their service. The HEART Act contains several provisions designed to allow service members and reservists to make a smooth financial transition both into active duty and then back into their civilian lives.


   Pros and Cons of Being a Qualified Reservist   

Serving in the reserves can present financial hardships. Married couples with kids, for instance, face unexpected childcare costs when one or both adult family members are called into active duty overseas. As with many of the HEART Act provisions, qualified reservist rules provide additional financial flexibility for reservists.



If there is a trade-off, it’s that there are important restrictions. For example, service-member employees cannot make further elective contributions to their retirement plans after the date of distribution. This can have a negative impact on a potential retirement nest egg.



Perhaps the biggest disadvantage of the qualified reservist rules is that missing even a single year of savings in a 401k or IRA can make a difference in retirement. This is especially true early in the retirement-savings process, as the money taken out will not have a chance to compound over multiple years. For this reason, even a withdrawal of a few thousand dollars, as allowed for qualified reservists, can cost $10,000 or more over several decades.
What Is a Qualified Retirement Plan?  

A qualified retirement plan is an employer-sponsored retirement plan that meets the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), making it eligible for certain tax benefits. These can include tax deductions for employer and employee contributions and tax deferral of investment gains.





Key Takeaways

A qualified retirement plan is an employer-sponsored plan that meets Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and U.S. Labor Department requirements and offers certain tax benefits to employees and employers.Those benefits can include tax deductions for contributions and tax deferral of investment gains until the money is withdrawn from the account.Qualified retirement plans can be either defined-benefit or defined-contribution plans.Examples of qualified retirement plans include traditional pensions, 401(k) plans, and profit-sharing plans.


   Understanding Qualified Retirement Plans  

Qualified retirement plans come in two main types: defined benefit and defined contribution, though there are also some other plans that are hybrids of the two, the most common of which is called a cash balance plan.



Defined-benefit plans give employees a guaranteed payout after retirement and place the risk on the employer to save and invest properly to meet plan liabilities. A traditional, annuity-type pension is an example of a defined-benefit plan.



With defined-contribution plans, the amount of money that employees will have available to them in retirement depends on how much they contribute and how successfully they invest those contributions. The employee typically chooses what to invest in and bears all of the investment risk. A 401(k) is the most popular example of a defined-contribution plan.



Other examples of qualified plans include:



Profit-sharing plans
403(b) plans
457 plans
Money purchase plans
Employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs)
Salary Reduction Simplified Employee Pension (SARSEP) plans
Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) plans
Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees (SIMPLE) plans


   Requirements for Qualified Retirement Plans  

The tax code lays out a long list of requirements that plans must meet to be qualified.



For example, employees must be eligible to participate in the plan no later than the date when they turn 21 years old or the date when they complete one year of service, whichever comes later.



Once they are eligible to participate, employees must be allowed to join the plan no later than the first day of the first plan year beginning after the date when they met the minimum age and service requirements or six months after the date when they satisfied those requirements, whichever comes earlier.



The tax code also establishes the rules for vesting, employer matching contributions, rollovers, distributions, and more.



Employers have some leeway within these rules, but once they have put the specifics of their plan in writing—as they are required to do—they must adhere to them unless they amend the plan.



Qualified retirement plans are also subject to the rules of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), which is administered by the U.S. Department of Labor. One of its chief requirements is that plan sponsors (employers) and administrators act as fiduciaries, meaning that they must make investment decisions in the best interest of plan participants. If they fail to do that, they can be held personally liable to make up any losses.


   Tax Benefits of Qualified Retirement Plans  

Employers that provide qualified retirement plans for their employees can take a tax deduction for the money they contribute to the plans, up to certain limits. Those limits depend on the type of plan, with defined-benefit plans having higher contribution limits than defined-contribution plans.



With defined-contribution plans, employees can take a tax deduction for their contributions, reducing their taxable income and therefore their taxes for the year. They’ll pay tax on that income only when they later withdraw it, usually in retirement. In the meantime, the investment earnings on the money in their account will be tax-deferred, again until it’s withdrawn. (Roth-type accounts are an exception here—they don’t provide any tax deduction going in, but later withdrawals will be tax-free as long as the account owner meets the rules.)



Depending on the specific provisions of the employer’s plan, qualified plans can also allow employees to take out loans and make penalty-free early withdrawals under certain circumstances.




What Is a Non-qualified Retirement Plan?
Non-qualified retirement plans are employer-sponsored plans that don’t meet all of the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and don’t receive all of the tax advantages of qualified plans. Non-qualified plans are primarily used to reward a company’s top executives.




Are Qualified Retirement Plans Federally Insured?
Many defined-benefit plans, or traditional pensions, are insured by the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. up to certain limits. Defined-contribution plans, on the other hand, are not insured.




How Are Withdrawals from Qualified Retirement Plans Taxed?
Withdrawals, or distributions, from qualified retirement plans must be included in the taxpayer’s income for that year and are taxed at the same rate as their ordinary income, such as a salary. Roth-type accounts, however, are eligible for tax-free withdrawals, in part because the income that was used to fund them has already been taxed.


   The Bottom Line  

Qualified retirement plans are employer-sponsored plans that meet the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and are eligible for certain tax benefits, such as tax deductions for contributions and tax deferral of investment gains. Qualified retirement plans can be either defined-benefit or defined-contribution plans.
What Is the Qualified Special Representative Agreement?  

The Qualified Special Representative Agreement (QSR) is an agreement between broker-dealers to clear trades without interacting with the NASDAQ ACT system. The QSR allows one broker-dealer to send trades directly to the National Securities Clearing Corporation on behalf of another broker-dealer. This method of clearing trades provides simpler processing, lower transaction costs, and extended trading hours.


   Understanding the Qualified Special Representative Agreement (QSR)  

The Qualified Special Representative Agreement (QSR) applies to NASDAQ trades that a broker-dealer would normally process through the ACT system. The ACT system matches trades and then communicates the transaction to the broker-dealer's clearing firm. The ACT system also reports the trade to the National Securities Clearing Corporation.


   Matching and Reporting Trades  

When two broker-dealers have a QSR agreement, each one can send trades to its clearinghouse on behalf of the other, and each of their clearing firms has agreed to clear the trades based on the agreement. Broker-dealers match orders against another broker-dealer by using an electronic communication network (ECN). Each broker-dealer and the ECN send a ticket file to their clearing firms with the trade details. However, each firm must still report their own trades to FINRA. Unlike the Nasdaq ACT system, which reports trades continuously to the NSCC, trades made under QSR agreements are reported only five times daily.
What Is a Qualified Terminable Interest Property (QTIP) Trust?  

A qualified terminable interest property (QTIP) trust enables the grantor to provide for a surviving spouse and maintain control of how the trust's assets are distributed once the surviving spouse dies. Income generated from the trust, and sometimes the principal, is given to the surviving spouse to ensure that the spouse is taken care of for the rest of their life.





Key Takeaways

A qualified terminable interest property (QTIP) trust allows an individual, called the grantor, to leave assets for a surviving spouse and determine how the trust's assets are split up after the surviving spouse dies.Under a QTIP trust, income is paid to a surviving spouse while the balance of the funds is held in trust until that spouse's death. At that point, the remainder is paid to the beneficiaries specified by the grantor.QTIP trusts are used in estate planning and are especially helpful when beneficiaries exist from a previous marriage, but the grantor dies before a subsequent spouse does.In QTIP trust, estate tax is not assessed at the point of the first spouse's death but is determined after the second spouse has passed.A QTIP trust is established by making a QTIP trust election on the executor's tax return.


   How Qualified Terminable Interest Property (QTIP) Trusts Work  

This type of irrevocable trust is commonly used by individuals who have children from another marriage. QTIP trusts enable the grantor to look after their spouse and ensure that the assets from the trust are passed on after that spouse dies to beneficiaries of their choice. Beneficiaries could be children from the grantor's first marriage, other family members, or friends.



Aside from providing the living spouse with a source of funds, a QTIP trust can also help limit applicable death and gift taxes. The property within the QTIP trust providing income to a surviving spouse qualifies for marital deductions, meaning the value of the trust is not taxable after the first spouse’s death. Instead, the property becomes taxable after the second spouse's death, with liability transferring to the named beneficiaries of the assets within the trust.



Additionally, QTIPs can assert control over how the funds are handled should the surviving spouse die, as the spouse never assumes the power of appointment over the principal. This can prevent these assets from transferring to the living spouse’s new spouse should they remarry.






QTIP trusts are reported on tax returns using IRD Form 706.


   Qualified Terminable Interest Property Trustee Appointments  

A minimum of one trustee must be appointed to manage the trust, though there may be multiple named simultaneously. The trustee or trustees will be responsible for controlling the trust and have authority over the management of the assets.



Examples of possible trustees include, but are not limited to, the surviving spouse, a financial institution, an attorney, and other family members or friends.


   Spousal Payments and QTIP Trusts  

The surviving spouse named within a QTIP trust typically receives payments from the trust based on the income the trust generates, similar to stock dividends. Payments can be made from the principal if the grantor allows it when the trust is created.



Payments will be made to the spouse for the rest of their life. Upon death, the payments cease, as they are not transferable to another person. The assets in the trust then become the property of the listed beneficiaries.


   QTIP Trust vs. Marital Trust  







 QTIP
 Marital Trust




Irrevocable
Irrevocable


Only names the spouse as beneficiary
Only names the spouse as beneficiary 


Unlimited marital deduction
Unlimited marital deduction


Defers taxes until spouse's death
Defers taxes until spouse's death


Control does not pass to spouse
Control passes to spouse


Income from assets or principal paid to spouse
Surviving spouse controls asset distribution






Each type of trust can help you achieve similar estate planning goals. However, the key differences lie in how the assets in the trust are controlled. For example, a QTIP lets the grantor dictate how assets within the trust are distributed to their spouse and requires that distributions be made at least annually.



A marital trust allows the surviving spouse to dictate how the assets are distributed—it doesn't require distributions, and that spouse can even add new beneficiaries. A marital trust has more flexibility as this type does not require the surviving spouse to take annual distributions. The surviving spouse of a marital gift trust can also appoint new beneficiaries following the death of the original grantor.






As the surviving spouse is never the true property owner, a lien cannot be put against the property within the trust or the trust itself.


   Benefits of a QTIP  

While QTIPs are similar to marital trusts, there are benefits in certain situations.



You control where the assets end up: You control who your assets pass to after both you and your spouse die. This means that no matter what your spouse does after you pass on, any assets left in the trust are passed on to the secondary beneficiaries you name. These could be your children, grandchildren, or children from a previous marriage.QTIPs protect all assets and income: As your spouse ages, they may be unable to make the sound financial decisions they once could. Dictating how income or principal is distributed and used protects the assets for all beneficiaries you name. Your assets cannot be accessed by thieves, or scammers, be accidentally signed away or be used in ways you didn't intend for them to be used.




How Does a QTIP Trust Work?
A QTIP trust is an irrevocable trust that pays income generated from the assets to a spouse. When that spouse dies, the assets pass to the beneficiaries named by the grantor.




What Is the Difference Between a QTIP and Marital Trust?
The two are similar, except that a QTIP cannot be changed by the surviving spouse and requires that at least one annual distribution occur.




What Are the Requirements of a QTIP Trust?
A QTIP is required to pay all of its income to the spouse beneficiary. There can also be no other beneficiaries until that spouse passes away.


   The Bottom Line  

Qualified Terminable Interest Trusts are designed to be a method of ensuring you can leave assets to your spouse and other named beneficiaries while the terms you want are enforced throughout the trust's existence.



QTIPs may not be suitable for everyone or every situation. For example, if you're not concerned with how your estate is distributed after your spouse dies, you might not need a QTIP. But if you're leaving an estate to your spouse when you die and want any remaining assets and income to go to specific people after your spouse passes on, a QTIP is an excellent way to ensure your wishes are followed.
What Is a Qualified Trust?  

A qualified trust is a tax-advantaged fiduciary relationship between an employer and an employee in the form of a stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing plan. In a qualified trust, the underlying beneficiary may use his or her life expectancy to determine required minimum distribution (RMD) amounts, but other considerations like gender, race, or salary cannot be used.





Key Takeaways

A qualified trust is a stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing plan established by an employer for their employees.A qualified trust is tax-advantaged as long as it meets IRS requirements.In order to determine benefits, an employer may consider the life expectancy of their employees, but they cannot factor in the race, gender, religion, or current compensation of their employees.


   Understanding Qualified Trusts  

A trust may be "qualified" or "non-qualified," according to the IRS. A qualified plan carries certain tax benefits. To be qualified, a trust must be valid under state law and must have identifiable beneficiaries. In addition, the IRA trustee, custodian, or plan administrator must receive a copy of the trust instrument. If a qualified trust is not structured correctly, disbursements are taxable by the IRS. Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code authorizes and sets forth the requirements for what is considered a qualified trust.



Stipulations exist to be sure that an employer does not discriminate among employees when contributing to a qualified trust. For example, an employer may not discriminate in favor of employees that are more highly compensated. Contributions must be uniform across an organization.


   Other Types of Trusts  

In addition to qualified trusts, there is a myriad of other trust types.


  Charitable Lead Trust  

In a charitable lead trust, for example, beneficiaries are able to reduce their taxable income by donating a portion of the trust's income to charity. After a specified period of time, the remainder of the trust is transferred to the beneficiaries.


  Bare Trust  

In a bare trust, a beneficiary has the absolute right to the capital and assets within the trust, as well as the income these assets generate, such as dividends. While a trustee will often bear responsibility for managing the trust assets in a prudent manner, the trustee does not determine how or when the trust's capital or income is distributed.


  Personal Trust  

A personal trust is a type of trust that a person sets up for himself or herself as the beneficiary. As separate legal entities, personal trusts that have the authority to buy, sell, hold, and manage the property for the benefit of their trustor and can accomplish a variety of important objectives. For example, a young adult may set up a personal trust to pay for a graduate school program or professional education down the line.



When setting up any trust, it is important to seek the support of a trust or estate lawyer, potentially a custodian to hold the assets, and possibly an investment advisor to manage your trust(s) until it's time for withdrawal.
What Is a Qualified Widow or Widower?  

The term qualified widow or widower refers to a tax filing status that allows a surviving spouse to use the married filing jointly tax rates on an individual return. The provision is good for up to two years following the death of the individual's spouse. The taxpayer must remain unmarried for at least two years following the death of their spouse in order to qualify for this status.



Filing as a qualified widow(er) allows the taxpayer to receive the highest standard deduction for their taxes, provided they do not itemize deductions.





Key Takeaways

Qualified widow or widower is a tax filing status that allows a surviving spouse to use the married filing jointly tax rates on their tax return.The survivor must remain unmarried for at least two years following the year of the spouse’s death to qualify for the tax status.The taxpayer must have at least one dependent child and have handled at least half of the household costs.The qualifying widow(er) status offers the same standard deduction amount and tax bracket ranges as those for married couples who file jointly.The surviving spouse must file as single or head of household following the third year of their spouse's death.


   Understanding Qualified Widows or Widowers  

Qualifying Widow(er) is one of the five official filing statuses of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). It provides financial relief for those who lose their spouses and may be struggling with death-related expenses or other regular household bills. Using the qualified widow(er) status allows the surviving spouse to file taxes as if they were still married, despite the fact that their partner is deceased.



You can file taxes as a qualified widow(er) for the year your spouse died, as well as two years following their death. So, depending on the timing of when the spouse passed during the year, this time frame could technically be three calendar years. After that, you must opt for the status of either single filer or head of household.



Because it is a somewhat unusual status, there are specific rules and regulations about who qualifies. The following are eligibility rules set out by the IRS for the qualified widow(er) filing status:



You were entitled to file a joint return with your spouse for the year your spouse died. It doesn't matter whether you actually filed a joint return.
Your spouse died in the previous two years, and you didn't remarry before the end of the ensuing tax year. For example, if your spouse died in 2018 or 2019 and you were unmarried as of Dec. 31, 2020, you could file as a qualifying widow(er) for the tax year 2020.
You have at least one child or stepchild (not a foster child) living with you whom you can claim as a dependent. Keep in mind that you don't actually have to claim them on your tax return, but they must technically qualify as one.
You paid more than half the cost of keeping up a home for the year. Expenses for home upkeep, including groceries to rent or mortgage, homeowners insurance to property taxes, repairs, utilities, and other home maintenance fees.



As noted above, you get all the advantages of being married and filing jointly when you use the qualified widow(er) status—notably the deductions and income tax brackets. For tax year 2022, the standard deduction for single filers is $12,950 rising to $13,850 in tax year 2023; this is the same for married filing separately. For heads of household, the standard deduction is $19,400 in 2022, rising to $20,800 in 2023. For married filing jointly, the standard deduction is $25,900 in 2022, rising to $27,700 in 2023. For surviving spouses, the standard deduction is $25,900 in 2022, rising to $27,700 in 2023.






Taxpayers who do not remarry in the year their spouse dies can file jointly with the deceased spouse for that tax year. After that, they can opt for Qualifying Widow(er) status.


   Special Considerations  

Having a dependent child is a key part of filing as a qualified widow or widower. In fact, it's actually a very crucial part of the tax filing status. There is often an addendum to the title that stipulates it, notably qualified widow(er) with dependent child.



The law also dictates that the dependent child must have lived in the home with the taxpayer all year, aside from temporary absences, like vacations or visiting relatives. There are exceptions if a child's presence is for less than a year, for things like birth, death, and even kidnapping.



In addition, the child cannot qualify if:



They had a gross income of $4,300 or more.
They filed a joint return.
You could be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return.
What Is a Qualifying Annuity?  

A qualifying annuity is similar to any other annuity, except the IRS has approved it for use within a Qualified Retirement Plan or individual retirement account (IRA). These annuities can be fixed, indexed, or variable depending upon the plan sponsor's investment objectives. According to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) guidelines, contributions made into a qualifying annuity are tax-deductible unless the plan or annuity has a Roth feature.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A qualifying annuity is an annuity approved by the IRS for use within an IRA or a qualified retirement plan, similar to other types of annuities. A qualifying annuity can be variable, fixed, or indexed. Withdrawals from an annuity before age 59½ are subject to a 10% penalty.However, since a non-qualified annuity is purchased with after-tax dollars, only the earnings would be subject to the penalty.﻿﻿


   How a Qualifying Annuity Works  

Qualifying annuities are not tax-deductible plans in and of themselves; they must reside within a qualified plan or IRA to enjoy this status. Qualifying annuities can be either the sole vehicle inside the plan or account, or they can be one of several other choices that are offered as well.



In many cases, the qualifying annuity is a variable contract and is the only vehicle offered within the plan, with the variable subaccounts constituting the choices available to plan participants.






There are many types of annuities to choose from depending on a variety of factors from retirement income needs to comfortability with financial risk.


   Types of Annuities  
  Qualified and Non-Qualified  

The products that go into qualified and non-qualified annuities are the same. However, the rules for non-qualified annuities are different, which is covered in IRS publication 575. One twist is that when a non-qualified annuity is partially or fully surrendered, the first dollars out are considered earnings for tax purposes and are thus taxed at ordinary income rates. Once all of the earnings have been withdrawn, the remaining money—the original investment—can be taken out tax-free.



If payments under a non-qualified plan are taken in the form of periodic payments, part of each payment is treated as a return of the original investment for which no taxes are due. Part of the payout is considered earnings and taxed at ordinary income rates. The exact percentages of earnings versus principal are based on the type of payout and the beneficiary's age. 


  Fixed and Variable  

Annuities can be structured generally as either fixed or variable. Fixed annuities provide regular periodic payments to the annuitant. Variable annuities allow the owner to receive more significant future cash flows if investments within the annuity fund do well and smaller payments if its investments do poorly. This provides for less stable cash flow than a fixed annuity but allows the annuitant to reap the benefits of strong returns from their fund's investments.


   Special Considerations  

There are many other considerations, including sales fees, commissions, and the length of the annuity. Whether an annuity is qualified or not, withdrawals before age 59½ are subject to a 10% penalty. Since the non-qualified annuity is purchased with after-tax dollars, only the earnings would be subject to the penalty.
What Is a Qualifying Disposition?  

Qualifying disposition refers to a sale, transfer, or exchange of stock that qualifies for favorable tax treatment. Individuals typically acquire this type of stock through an incentive stock option (ISO), or through a qualified employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). A qualified ESPP requires shareholder approval before it is implemented. Furthermore, all plan members must have equal rights in the plan.





Key Takeaways

A qualifying disposition is the sale or transfer of stock that qualifies for favorable tax treatment.Shares involved in qualifying dispositions are traditionally acquired through an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), or through an incentive stock option (ISO). Non-statutory stock options (NSOs) do not qualify for capital gains tax treatment and get taxed at ordinary income rates.﻿﻿ESPPs and ISOs are used by companies to attract and retain talented personnel.


   How Qualifying Disposition Works  

To be a qualifying disposition, the employee must sell their position at least one year after exercising the stock, and two years after the incentive stock option (ISO) was granted, or two years after the beginning of the ESPP offering period.﻿﻿



For example, suppose Cathy’s ISO options were granted September 20, 2018, and she exercises them September 20, 2019. In this scenario, Cathy must wait until September 20, 2020, before she may report a long-term capital gain.



The capital gains treatment for a qualifying disposition applies to the amount of the sale represented by the difference between the exercise price of the option's stock, and the market price at which the stock sold. For example, if Tim exercises 1,000 ISO options at $10 per share, and sells them for $30 per share, he consequently will report a capital gain of $20,000 ($20 x 1000 shares).﻿﻿



Non-statutory stock options (NSOs) do not qualify for capital gains tax treatment and are taxed at ordinary income rates.﻿﻿ Issuing a compensation package that includes ISOs and a qualified ESPP helps companies attract and retain top-tier personnel. It also aligns a company’s management and key employees with its shareholders, as they all want the company to succeed and increase its share price.



Some companies do not offer ISOs, because contrary to non-statutory (or non-qualified) option plans there is no tax deduction for the company when the options are exercised.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations   

“Bargain element” refers to an option that can be exercised below the current market price, which provides the employee with an immediate profit. An employee who exercises a non-statutory option must report the bargain element as earned income, which is subject to income tax. It should be noted that employees who hold ISOs are not mandated to report the bargain element, until after they sell their shares.﻿﻿



The bargain element is reported as ordinary income if the shares were immediately sold after they were exercised (a disqualifying disposition). By contrast, the bargain element is reported as a long-term capital gain if the sale was executed one year after exercising the options, and two years after the grant date (qualifying disposition).﻿﻿






The bargain element for NSOs is added to an individual’s alternative minimum taxable income, which has a flat tax meant to ensure everyone pays their fair share of taxes despite tax minimization strategies.﻿﻿ 


   Qualifying Distribution vs. Disqualifying Distribution   

A disqualifying distribution is the sale or exchange of shares received from an ISO or ESPP before the holding period has been met. The ISO holding period is one year from the exercise date and two years from the grant date or two years from the ESPP offering date. Gains or losses realized in a disqualifying disposition are taxed at a higher rate.﻿﻿



If ESPP or ISO shares are sold in a qualifying disposition, the bargain amount is taxed at the capital gains rate. Disqualifying dispositions are recorded at the income tax rate, which is generally higher than the capital gains tax.﻿﻿
What Is a Qualifying Event?  

A qualifying event is a change in life circumstances that allows you to alter an existing health insurance policy, or sign up for a new one, outside of open enrollment periods.



Without a qualifying event, you would need to wait until the next open enrollment period before making any changes. Common examples of qualifying events include the birth or adoption of a child, death of a spouse, or a change in marital status.





Key Takeaways

A qualifying event allows you to change your existing health insurance policy, or sign up for a new one, outside of open enrollment periods.Open enrollment periods are typically held at the end of the year with coverage starting at the beginning of the following year.Examples of qualifying events include the birth or adoption of a child, death of a spouse, or a change in marital status.


   How Qualifying Events Work  

In the United States, most healthcare services are covered by private health insurance plans, with the remainder provided by government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many people receive health insurance through their employers who may cover all or part of the premiums, or they can purchase a plan through the Health Insurance Marketplace.



Typically, you can choose the type and amount of coverage based on your needs during open enrollment periods. Open enrollment periods are typically held at the end of the year with coverage starting at the beginning of the following year. For example, open enrollment for the Health Insurance Marketplace typically runs from November through mid-December. Once open enrollment is closed, you can't make changes to the type of insurance coverage selected, unless you experience a qualifying event.﻿﻿



Qualifying events, also commonly called qualifying life events, are circumstances that can significantly impact your personal and financial situation—such as getting married, divorced, having a baby or adopting a child, and the death of a spouse. Many health insurance contracts contain provisions stating that, if such an event occurs, a special enrollment period will be triggered and a policyholder can request changes to their insurance policy without needing to wait for the next open enrollment period.﻿﻿






Generally, you need to prove that a qualifying event occurred by providing evidence—such as a birth certificate or documentation for a marriage or divorce. Once this evidence has been accepted, most insurers require that you request changes to coverage within 60 days.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

One potential life event that is treated differently relates to employment. If you leave or lose your job, you may be able to stay on your employer's group health plan thanks to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA), which was passed by Congress in 1986.



One caveat of COBRA coverage is that the premium is usually higher than when you were employed because you pay the entire cost of the insurance. Most employers usually chip in a significant portion of healthcare premiums for employees.






COBRA is a temporary solution that generally only covers you up to 18 or 36 months, depending on the circumstances.﻿﻿


   Real-World Example of a Qualifying Event  

The passage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), colloquially known as “Obamacare,” had an impact on what counts as a qualifying event. For example, the ACA made it possible for young people to be covered under their parents' health insurance until the age of 26. Their 26th birthday is then considered a qualifying event, which makes them eligible to sign up for their own coverage at that time.



Losing existing health coverage due to, for example, the loss of a job or losing student health coverage is also considered a qualifying event under the ACA.
What Is a Qualifying Investment?  

A qualifying investment refers to an investment purchased with pretax income, usually in the form of a contribution to a retirement plan. Funds used to purchase qualified investments do not become subject to taxation until the investor withdraws them.





Key Takeaways

Qualifying investments are purchased with pretax income and are not taxed until the investor withdraws them.They provide an incentive to contribute to accounts, such as IRAs, to defer taxes until the funds are withdrawn in retirement.Financial instruments that qualify for deferred taxes include annuities, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, IRAs, RRSPs, and some trusts.Roth IRAs require the investor pay taxes upfront and therefore don't meet the guidelines.


   How a Qualifying Investment Works  

Qualifying investments provide an incentive for individuals to contribute to certain types of savings accounts by deferring taxes until the investor withdraws the funds. Contributions to qualified accounts reduce an individual’s taxable income in a given year, making the investment more attractive than a similar investment in a non-qualified account.


   Example of a Qualifying Investment  

For high-income individuals, deferring taxation on earnings until the distribution from a retirement fund could potentially yield savings in a couple of ways. For example, consider a married couple whose gross income would push them just over the break-point to a higher tax bracket.



In 2023, a married couple filing jointly would see a rise in tax rate from 24% to 32% on earnings over $364,200. Because the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) uses marginal tax rates, the couple’s 2023 earnings between $190,750 and $364,200 would be taxed at 24%.



Suppose each spouse’s employer offered a 401(k) plan, and the couple maxed out their contributions for the year. The contribution limit established by the IRS caps annual contributions to 401(k) plans in 2023 at $22,500 each. So, the couple could trim $45,000 in total off their 2023 taxable income, bringing the total number down from $364,200 to $319,200, comfortably within the 24% tax bracket.



If the couple had needed to make an additional contribution and they were over the age of 50, they are each allowed by the IRS to make a catch-up contribution of $7,500 in 2023.



After retirement, the taxes the couple will pay on distributions will correspond to their post-retirement income, which likely will be quite a bit less than their combined salaries. To the extent their retirement distributions stay below the threshold for higher income tax brackets, they will profit off the difference between the marginal rates they would have paid in the present and any lower marginal rates they pay in the future.


   Qualifying Investments vs. Roth IRAs  

Investments qualifying for tax-deferred status typically include annuities, stocks, bonds, IRAs, registered retirement savings plans (RRSPs), and certain types of trusts. Traditional IRAs and variants geared toward self-employed people, such as SEP and SIMPLE IRA plans, all fall under the category of qualifying investments.



Roth IRAs, on the other hand, operate a bit differently. When people contribute to Roth IRAs, they use post-tax income, meaning they don't get a tax deduction in the year of the contribution. Where qualifying investments offer tax advantages by deferring payment of taxes, Roth IRAs offer a tax advantage by allowing contributors to pay a tax on their investment funds upfront in exchange for qualified distributions. Under a Roth IRA, distributions that meet certain criteria avoid any further taxation, eliminating any taxation of the appreciation of contributed funds.



It's important to note that Roth IRAs have lower contribution limits than defined contribution plans such as 401(k)s. Roth and traditional IRAs both have annual contribution limits of $6,500 for 2023. For individuals aged 50 and over, they can deposit a catch-up contribution of $1,000 in 2023.
What Are Qualifying Ratios?  

Qualifying ratios are measuring devices that banks and other financial institutions use in their loan underwriting process. An applicant's qualifying ratio, expressed as a percentage figure, plays a key role in determining whether they'll be approved for financing, and often for the terms of the loan as well.



Lenders use qualifying ratios, percentages that compare a borrower's debt obligations to their income, in deciding whether to approve loan applications.





key takeaways

The debt-to-income ratio (total expenses divided by gross income) is used in underwriting personal loans, credit card applications, and mortgages.The housing expense ratio (housing-relating expenses divided by gross income) is used in underwriting mortgages.While each lender sets its own qualifying standards, what's generally desirable is a debt-to-income ratio of 36% or less, and a housing expense ratio of 28%.


   How Qualifying Ratios Work  

Qualifying ratio requirements can vary across lenders and loan programs. They are often used in combination with a borrower’s credit score in evaluating an application.



When it comes to consumer financing, the debt-to-income ratio and the housing expense ratio are two of the most common and significant qualifying ratios. Standard credit products (personal loans, credit cards) will focus on a borrower’s debt-to-income ratio. Mortgage loans will use both the housing expense ratio and the debt-to-income ratio.






Online lenders and credit card issuers often use computer algorhythms in their underwriting process. This automated system often lets loan applications be approved in minutes.


   Qualifying Ratios in Personal Loans  

In the underwriting process for all types of personal loans and credit cards, the lender will focus on two factors: the borrower's debt-to-income ratio and their credit score. The two are usually given equal weight.



The debt-to-income ratio (DTI), which may be calculated monthly or annually, considers a borrower’s current, regular debt obligations against their total or gross income—comparing how much they have outgoing, vis-a-vis the regular amount they have coming in, over the same period. To obtain the ratio, you divide the outstanding debt payments by the total income. Or, as a formula (assuming the more common monthly calculation):












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



While each lender has its own specified parameters for loan approval, high-quality lenders generally will require a debt-to-income ratio of approximately 36% or less. Subprime and other alternative-financing lenders may allow for debt-to-income ratios of up to approximately 43%.


   Qualifying Ratios in Mortgage Loans  

Mortgage loan underwriting analyzes two types of ratios along with a borrower’s credit score. Mortgage lenders will look at a borrower’s housing expense ratio; they will also consider a borrower’s debt-to-income ratio.






In mortgage financing, the housing expense ratio is also referred to as as the front-end ratio while the debt-to-income ratio is often known as the back-end ratio.


  Housing Expense Ratio  

The housing expense ratio is generally a comparison of the borrower’s total housing-related expenses to their gross or pre-tax income. Lenders have numerous expenses that they may consider when determining an applicant's overall housing expense ratio. They usually focus on the mortgage principal and interest payments; however, they may also look at other regular costs, such as homeowners and hazard insurance, utility bills, property taxes, homeowners association fees, and mortgage insurance. The sum of these housing expenses is then divided by the borrower’s income to arrive at the housing expense ratio; the figures can be calculated using monthly payments or annual payments.



Underwriters use the housing expense ratio not only to grant approval for the mortgage, but also to determine how much principal an applicant is eligible to borrow. Most lenders typically require a housing expense ratio to be approximately 28% or less. A higher housing expense ratio may be acceptable based on compensating factors such as a low loan-to-value ratio for the property, and/or an excellent credit history for the borrower. The realities of the local real estate market may play a part too: In expensive regions such as New York City or San Francisco, it's not unusual for housing expenses to total one-third of people's income.


  Debt-to-Income Ratio  

The debt-to-income ratio in mortgage loans is the same measure used in personal loan products. Lenders generally also look for a debt-to-income ratio of 36% for mortgage loans as well. Some government-sponsored loan programs may have looser standards for debt-to-income: Fannie Mae accepts debt-to-income ratios of approximately 45% for the mortgages it backs, and Federal Housing Administration loans accepts debt-to-income ratios of approximately 50%.
What Is a Qualifying Relative?  

A qualifying relative, designated by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), can be claimed as a dependent by a taxpayer, assuming the taxpayer provided considerable financial support for the relative during the tax year.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act suspended the deduction for qualifying relative exemptions for tax years 2018 through 2025. However, taxpayers may claim other tax benefits, such as the child tax credit, earned income tax credit, and child and dependent care credit.





Key Takeaways

A qualifying relative is a dependent you can claim when filing your taxes.Before claiming a qualifying relative, examine how much income your relative makes, how much support you provide for them, and your relationship with them.As a dependent, a qualifying relative can provide the taxpayer tax credits that accompany the addition of the relative to the household.The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act suspended the deduction for qualifying relative exemptions for tax years 2018 through 2025, however, taxpayers may claim other tax benefits.


   Understanding Qualifying Relatives  

A taxpayer can claim a dependent and receive potential tax credits that may accompany the addition of that person to the household. A qualifying relative is one of two dependents you can claim on your tax return. The other dependent is a qualifying child. Before claiming someone as a qualifying relative, you must examine how much income your relative makes, how much support you provide for them, and your relationship with them. The IRS uses several tests to define a qualifying relative.


   IRS Qualifying Relative Tests  

If you claim a qualifying relative, your dependent cannot claim their own dependents, cannot be married and file a joint return, and must be a citizen, national, or resident alien of the United States or a resident of Canada or Mexico.



The qualifying relative must not be a qualifying child of the taxpayer or anyone else.The qualifying relative must live in the household during the tax year or be related to the taxpayer as a child, sibling, parent, grandparent, niece or nephew, aunt or uncle, certain in-law, or step-relative.Someone who is not related to the taxpayer can become a qualifying relative by living with the taxpayer all year. A person who died during the year but lived with the taxpayer until death or was born during the year and lived with the taxpayer for the rest of the year is considered a qualifying relative, even though that person didn’t live with the taxpayer for the year.The qualifying relative must have a gross income of less than $4,400 in 2022.The qualifying relative must have received more than half of their financial support for the year from the taxpayer.


   IRS Guidelines  

IRS Publication 501, Exemptions, Standard Deductions, and Filing Information provides details about meeting the qualifying tests, information about being a qualifying child, filing as head of household, special custody and residency situations, and other deductions. This official publication gives detailed information on how to file when multiple taxpayers provide support for the same person; limits of earning a salary, hourly wages, or receiving money from other sources to stay under the limit for a qualifying relative; and what qualifies a person as living temporarily away from the taxpayer.




What Is the Difference Between a Qualifying Child and a Qualifying Relative?
A taxpayer must choose to claim a dependent as a qualifying child or qualifying relative. If a dependent meets these criteria, they are considered a qualifying child and not a qualifying relative:A qualifying child is commonly the taxpayer’s biological or adopted child but may be a stepchild or a foster child. A sibling, half-sibling, or step-sibling may also qualify as a qualifying child.A qualifying child must meet be younger than the taxpayer and under age 19 or a full-time student under 24 years old. The age requirement does not apply if the qualifying child is permanently disabled during the tax year.




Am I Eligible for an Earned Income Tax Credit for a Qualifying Relative?
Someone who only meets the “qualifying relative” test is never eligible to be claimed for purposes of the EITC. The relative must be a child, stepchild, eligible foster child, adopted child, brother, sister, half-sibling, stepsibling, or descendant of any of these individuals.




What Is the Support Test When Claiming Qualifying Relatives?
The taxpayer must provide more than 50% of the person’s support for the tax year. This support test differs from the one for a qualifying child, which tests whether the child provided more than one-half of their support. When calculating total support, taxpayers should compare their contributions with the entire amount of support the person received from all sources, such as taxable income, tax-exempt income, and loans.


   The Bottom Line  

A qualifying relative is a dependent you can claim on your taxes, but you must determine how much income your relative makes, how much support you provide for them, and your relationship with them. A qualifying relative provides the taxpayer tax credits that accompany the addition of the relative to the household. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act suspended the deduction for qualifying relative exemptions for tax years 2018 through 2025, but taxpayers may be able to claim other tax benefits.
What Is a Qualifying Transaction?  

A qualifying transaction is a process in which a private company in Canada issues public stock. This process involves the creation of a capital pool company (CPC) that acquires all of the outstanding shares of the private company, making it a subsidiary and a public company.





Key Takeaways

A qualifying transaction is a process in which a private company in Canada goes public with the intent to raise capital for business purposes.A qualifying transaction involves the creation of a capital pool company (CPC) that acquires all of the outstanding shares of the private company, making it a subsidiary and a public company.The CPC is responsible for selling the shares and raising the capital all while obeying the rules and regulations around a qualifying transaction.A CPC must complete a qualifying transaction's requirements within 24 months of its creation, which involves filing a prospectus and applying to the TSX Venture Exchange.A qualifying transaction is the most common form of going public on the TSX Venture Exchange, particularly when compared to an initial public offering (IPO).


   Understanding a Qualifying Transaction  

Private companies go public to raise capital to finance their operations and growth. Financing is either done through equity financing, which is the issuance of shares to the public, or debt financing, which involves a loan. In the U.S., equity financing is accomplished through an initial public offering (IPO). In Canada, equity financing can also be achieved in a different way, through a qualifying transaction and the creation of a capital pool company (CPC).



A capital pool company (CPC) is a listed company with experienced directors and capital, but no commercial operations. Essentially, it is a shell company whose sole purpose is to later acquire a privately held company through a qualifying transaction.



The directors of the CPC focus on acquiring a privately held company and, upon the completion of the acquisition, that company has access to the capital and the listing prepared by the capital pool company. The private company then becomes a fully-owned subsidiary of the CPC. Qualifying transactions must be completed by a CPC within 24 months after the date of the CPC's first listing, which involves filing a prospectus and applying for a new listing on the TSX Venture Exchange.



The qualifying transaction may be structured as a share for share exchange; an amalgamation, where the private company and CPC form one corporation; plan of arrangement, where the capital structure of the private company is complex or unique and requires court and shareholder approval; or an asset purchase, where the CPC purchases assets from a third party in exchange for cash and/or securities of the CPC. In each case, the shareholders of the private company become security holders of the CPC.


   Qualifying Transactions to Go Public  

Capital pool companies, and associated qualifying transactions, are the most frequently used method of going public on the TSX Venture Exchange in Canada as opposed to initial public offerings (IPOs).



This method of going public is more efficient than a traditional initial public offering (IPO) because, unlike in an IPO, private companies are not required to incur upfront costs before marketing shares to prospective investors. Because the capital pool company will, by nature, have no business of its own, whatever line of trade that the private company engages in becomes the business of the CPC.



Qualifying transactions usually formally begin when the shareholders and the CPC create a Letter of Intent (LOI) outlining the terms of the agreement. Usually, the CPC must include a plan for financing the transaction in every LOI.


   Capital Pool Company Requirements for a Qualifying Transaction  

CPCs have certain rules and requirements to follow when turning a private company public. Law stipulates that a CPC must have three individuals that can contribute the greater of $100,000 or 5% of the total funds raised for the shares.



In addition, the CPC must sell the shares at twice the price of the seed shares to the public to a minimum of 200 investors. These investors have to purchase a minimum of 1,000 shares each. This sale must result in a value between $200,000 and $4,750,000. This raised capital then has to be used for an acquisition.
What Is a Qualifying Widow/Widower?  

The federal qualifying widow or widower tax filing status is available for two years for widows and widowers (surviving spouses) with dependents after their spouse's death. The surviving spouse may file jointly with the deceased spouse for the tax year in which the spouse has died, and they can claim the standard deduction for a married couple filing jointly. For the next two tax years, the surviving spouse can file as a qualifying widow or widower if they maintain a household for the couple’s dependent children.





Key Takeaways

Qualifying widow/widower filing status applies to surviving spouses with dependents.This allows the surviving spouse to file taxes jointly with the deceased spouse.The qualifying widow/widower status applies the standard deduction for a married couple filing jointly.


   Understanding Qualifying Widow/Widower  

The qualifying widow or widower tax filing status is not available in the year of the spouse's death. To qualify, the spouse must have qualified for the married filing jointly status in the year of the spouse's death. Additional IRS requirements include:



The taxpayer may not remarry.
A qualifying taxpayer must claim a qualifying dependent. Qualifying dependents are the spouse's children, step-children, or adopted children. The IRS does not allow foster children to qualify.
The qualifying dependent must live in the qualifying widow or widower's home for the full year. Temporary absences due to vacation, education, medical treatment, military service, or business activities are acceptable, as long as it is "reasonable to assume that the absent person will return to the home after the temporary absence" and the home is kept up during the absence.
The surviving spouse has paid over one-half the costs associated with maintaining the home. Expenses include the mortgage or rent payments, property taxes, utilities, and groceries.


   Advantages of Qualifying Widow/Widower  

An individual may pay less in federal income taxes when filing as a qualifying widow or widower. The qualifying widow or widower can enjoy the same standard deduction amount as married couples filing jointly, and, as of 2018, qualifying widows and widowers enjoy the same tax bracket as married couples filing jointly. This gives widowed spouses two years to transition financially to the higher tax burden of a single, unmarried filer. For example, if the deceased spouse passed away in 2019, the surviving spouse can use the qualifying widow or widower status to enjoy married filing jointly standard deductions and tax brackets for the tax years 2020 and 2021.



Lower taxes are especially helpful when the surviving spouse is paying funeral costs, final expenses, and general expenses associated with maintaining a home and rearing children. The reduced tax burden makes it easier for a surviving spouse to continue to provide for their children, and to transition to a single, unmarried filer, or head of household status.



In addition, if the qualifying dependent is born or dies during the year, a taxpayer may still file under the qualified widow or widower status. Again, they must have paid more than one-half the costs of maintaining the home during the child's life, or before the child's birth. Also, the child must have lived with the qualifying taxpayer during the year.
What Is Qualitative Analysis?  

In business and management, qualitative analysis uses subjective judgment to analyze a company's value or prospects based on non-quantifiable information, such as management expertise, industry cycles, strength of research and development, and labor relations.



Qualitative analysis contrasts with quantitative analysis, which focuses on numbers found in reports such as balance sheets. The two techniques, however, will often be used together to examine a company's operations and evaluate its potential as an investment opportunity.





Key Takeaways

Qualitative analysis uses subjective judgment based on "soft" or non-quantifiable data.Qualitative analysis deals with intangible and inexact information that can be difficult to collect and measure.Machines struggle to conduct qualitative analysis as intangibles can’t be defined by numeric values.Understanding people and company cultures are central to qualitative analysis.Looking at a company through the eyes of a customer and understanding its competitive advantage assists with qualitative analysis.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Qualitative Analysis  

The distinction between qualitative and quantitative approaches is similar to the difference between human and artificial intelligence. Quantitative analysis uses exact inputs such as profit margins, debt ratios, earnings multiples, and the like. These can be plugged into a computerized model to yield an exact result, such as the fair value of a stock or a forecast for earnings growth. Of course, for the time being, a human has to write the program that crunches these numbers, and that involves a fair degree of subjective judgment. Once they are programmed, though, computers can perform quantitative analysis in fractions of a second, while it might take even the most gifted and highly-trained humans minutes or hours.



Qualitative analysis, on the other hand, deals with intangible, inexact concerns that belong to the social and experiential realm rather than the mathematical one. This approach depends on the kind of intelligence that machines (currently) lack, since things like positive associations with a brand, management trustworthiness, customer satisfaction, competitive advantage, and cultural shifts are difficult, arguably impossible, to capture with numerical inputs. 






Many social scientists use qualitative analysis in their research, and it is especially prominent among anthropologists and sociologists.


  Understanding People Through Qualitative Analysis  

Qualitative analysis may sound almost like "listening to your gut," and indeed many qualitative analysts would argue that gut feelings have their place in the process. That does not mean, however, that it is not a rigorous approach. Indeed, it can consume much more time and energy than quantitative analysis.



People are central to qualitative analysis. An investor might start by getting to know a company's management, including their educational and professional backgrounds. One of the most important factors is their experience in the industry. More abstractly, do they have a record of hard work and prudent decision-making, or are they better at knowing—or being related to—the right people? Their reputations are also key: do their colleagues and peers respect them? Their relationships with business partners are also worth exploring since these can have a direct impact on operations.


  Company Culture and Qualitative Analysis  

The way employees view the company and its management is important. Are they satisfied and motivated, or do they resent their bosses? The rate of employee turnover can indicate employees' loyalty or lack thereof. What does workplace culture say about the company? Overly hierarchical offices promote intrigue and competition and sap productive energy; a sleepy, unmotivated environment can mean employees are mainly concerned with punching the clock. The ideal is a vibrant, creative culture that attracts top talent.


   Qualitative Data  

Gathering data for qualitative analysis can sometimes be difficult. Fortune 500 CEOs are not known for sitting down with retail investors for a chat or showing them around the corporate headquarters. In part, Warren Buffett can use qualitative analysis so effectively because people are willing to give him access to their time and information. The rest of us have to sift through news reports and companies' filings to get a sense of managers' records, strategies, and philosophies.



The management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of a company's 10-K filing and quarterly earnings conference calls provide a window into strategies and communication styles. Clear, transparent communication and coherent strategies are useful. Buzzwords, evasiveness, and short-termism, not so much.



Qualitative data can also be collected in a number of other ways including interviews, panel groups, ethnography (participant observation), archival work, and document analysis. Qualitative data is often read carefully and coded thematically to identify themes, patterns, and trends.


   Qualitative Analysis in the Business Context  

Customers are the only group more crucial to a company's success than management and employees since they are the source of its revenue. Ironically, if a company places customers' interests before shareholders, it may be a better long-term investment. If feasible, it's a good idea to try being a customer. Say you're considering investing in an airline that has reined in costs, beat earnings estimates in three consecutive quarters, and plans to buy back shares. When you try to actually use the airline, however, you find the website bug-ridden, the customer service representatives cranky, the extra fees petty, and your fellow passengers resentful. The negative experience tells you that the company has a lack of priority for its customers and to be careful making an investment in the airline.



A company's business model and competitive advantage are vital components of qualitative analysis. What gives the firm an enduring leg up over its rivals? Has it invented a new technology that competitors will find hard to replicate, or that has intellectual property protection? Does it have a unique approach to solving a problem for its customers? Is its brand globally recognized—in a good way? Does its product have cultural resonance or an element of nostalgia? Will there still be a market for it in twenty years? If you can plausibly imagine another company stepping in and doing what this one does just a little bit better, then the barrier to entry may be too low. Why will an un-established company be the one to create or disrupt its chosen market, and why won't it then be replaced in turn?


   Example of Qualitative Analysis in Business  

The idea behind quantitative analysis is to measure things; the idea behind qualitative analysis is to understand them. The latter requires a holistic view and a fact-based overarching narrative. Context is key. For example, a CEO who dropped out of college would be a red flag in some cases, but Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs are exceptions. Silicon Valley is, for better or worse, a different beast. A look at McDonald's Corp's (MCD) financials a few years ago would have told you nothing about a looming backlash against cheap, unhealthy food. On the other hand, a purely qualitative approach is vulnerable to distortion by blind spots and personal biases. Quantitative measures can act as a check on these tendencies.


   Qualitative Analysis vs. Quantitative Analysis  

Qualitative analysis relies on thick description and deep understanding of the subject being researched, obtained from in-depth interviews, observations, and/or close readings of text. This type of research typically looks at case studies and can be used to understand local phenomena.



Quantitative analysis instead relies on the statistical analyses of numerical data obtained from surveys, experiments, or administrative records. From this, inferences can be made and correlations between variables analyzed to understand more generalized phenomena.











 Qualitative Analysis
Quantitative Analysis




Type of data
Words, text, descriptions, direct observations
Numbers, figures, statistics


How data is collected
Observations, interviews, and textual analysis
Measuring and counting things


How data is analyzed
Text analysis; grouping data into meaningful themes or categories
Statistical analysis


Level of analysis
Small groups, case studies, local phenomena; more subjective
Large-scale, generalizable, fixed


Type of findings
 "Thick description", understanding the why or how about phenomena
How much, how many, or how often; correlations or causation among variables







What Are the Steps in Qualitative Analysis?
Although the exact steps may vary, most researchers and analysts undertaking qualitative analysis will follow these steps:Define your goals and objectiveCollect or obtain qualitative dataAnalyze the data to generate initial topic codesIdentify patterns or themes in the codesReview and revise codes based on initial analysisWrite up your findings




What Are the Methods of Qualitative Analysis?
Qualitative research encompasses a wide range of techniques and methodologies. Among the most common include:InterviewsEthnography (participant observation)Narrative or discourse analysisFocus groupsDocument/archival analysis




What Are Some Examples of Qualitative Data?
Qualitative data can take many forms. Common types include transcripts generated from one-on-one interviews, free text responses on surveys, narratives, quotations, text documents, images, or observations taken down in a notebook or research journal.




Where Is Qualitative Analysis Used?
Qualitative analysis can be applied to a wide range of research topics or practical settings. It is best used if you are interested in understanding human behavior from an informant or participant perspective to get a better understanding of what is going on in the social context around you.
What Is Quality Control (QC)?  

Quality control (QC) is a process through which a business seeks to ensure that product quality is maintained or improved. Quality control requires the company to create an environment where management and employees strive for perfection. This is done by training personnel, creating benchmarks for product quality, and testing products to check for statistically significant variations.



A significant aspect of quality control is the establishment of well-defined controls. These controls help standardize both production and reactions to quality issues. Limiting room for error by specifying which production activities are to be completed by which personnel reduces the chance that employees will be involved in tasks for which they do not have adequate training.





Key Takeaways

Quality control (QC) is a process through which a business seeks to ensure that product quality is maintained or improved.Quality control involves testing units and determining if they are within the specifications for the final product.The quality control used in a business is highly dependent on the product or industry, and several techniques exist for measuring quality.The food industry uses quality control methods to ensure customers do not get sick from their products. Quality control creates safe measures that can be implemented to make sure deficient or damaged products do not end up with customers. 












Ryan Oakley / Investopedia


   Understanding Quality Control (QC)  

Quality control involves testing units and determining if they are within the specifications for the final product. The purpose of the testing is to determine any needs for corrective actions in the manufacturing process. Good quality control helps companies meet consumer demands for better products.


  Why Is QC Needed?  

Creating a product is costly, time-consuming, and can be unsafe without controls in place. Additionally, if a company sends defective products out for purchase, it could be held liable for injuries or issues that arise from using its products. Quality control inspectors ensure that defective or unsafe products are identified, and the causes are corrected.


  How Is It Done?  

Quality testing is generally completed in each step of a manufacturing or business process. Employees often begin by testing raw materials, pulling samples from the manufacturing line, and testing the finished product. Testing at the various stages of manufacturing helps identify where a production problem is occurring and the remedial steps it requires to prevent it in the future.



In a non-manufacturing business, quality testing can involve customer service evaluations, questionnaires, surveys, inspections, or audits. A business can use any process or method to verify that its end product or service meets the customer's needs and is safe and legal.


  QC Is Different by Industry  

The quality control used in a business is highly dependent on the product or industry. For example, in food and drug manufacturing, quality control includes ensuring the product does not make a consumer sick, so the company performs chemical and microbiological testing of samples from the production line.






In aircraft manufacturing, quality control and assurance is of the utmost importance. Manufacturers are required to document, track, and inspect, and reinspect all items and phases of a build to build evidence that everything is completed to very strict standards.



In automobile manufacturing, quality control focuses on parts meeting specifications and tolerances. QC ensures engines, drive trains, and other mechanical parts operate smoothly, efficiently, safely, and as designed.



In electronics, quality testing might involve using meters that measure the flow of electricity and stress testing.


   Quality Control vs. Quality Assurance  

Quality control and quality assurance are terms often used to define the same thing, but there are distinct differences. Quality control focuses on quality requirements, such as ensuring a part meets specifications. Quality assurance refers to the sum of all actions and processes needed to demonstrate that quality requirements are fulfilled.



What this difference means for quality professionals is that as you move through a quality control career, you might transition from quality control to quality assurance. Quality control is part of quality assurance, which are programs and departments that assure upper-level management, customers, and government inspectors that products meet all quality requirements and safety standards.


   Types of Quality Control Methods  

There are several methods quality control uses to communicate and track inspections and issues. For instance, a quality control chart is a graphic that depicts whether sampled products or processes are meeting their intended specifications—and, if not, the degree by which they vary from those specifications.



When one chart analyzes a specific product attribute, it is called a univariate chart. A chart that measures variances in several product attributes is called a multivariate chart. Tracking variances allows businesses to see how many defects per production unit they produce and what types of defects are occurring. Here are a few examples of some methods used.


  X-Bar Chart  

Randomly selected products are tested for the given attributes the chart is tracking. A common form of a quality control chart is the X-Bar Chart, where the y-axis on the graph tracks the degree to which the variance of the tested attribute is acceptable. The x-axis tracks the samples tested. Analyzing the variance pattern on this chart helps you determine if defects are occurring randomly or systematically.


  Taguchi Method  

The Taguchi Method of quality control is another approach that emphasizes the roles of research and development, product design, and product development in reducing the occurrence of defects and failures in products. The Taguchi Method considers design more important than the manufacturing process in quality control and tries to eliminate variances in production before they can occur.


  100% Inspection Method  

This 100% inspection method is a quality control process involving looking at and assessing all product parts. This type of quality control is done to rule out flaws in products. This method is often used to evaluate valuable metals and produce. The 100% inspection method calls for data about the manufacturing process and software to analyze inventory.



The challenge of using this method is that looking at every single item used to build a product is expensive and could destabilize or render the product unusable. For example, if you use this method to examine organic strawberries, you risk damaging the berries, rendering them unsellable.






Quality control methods help standardize production and reactions to quality issues in various industries, from food production to automobile manufacturing.


   Quality Control Careers  

Quality control can be a rewarding career if you enjoy working with people, communicating, presenting results, and working to make products better and safer. To become a quality control inspector, you'll need (depending on the industry):



A high school diploma for entry-level positionsA bachelor's degree, depending on the industryExperience in an industryLicenses and certifications for some industries and businesses



Other qualities that are necessary for quality control professionals are:



Attention to detailMechanical and math skillsPhysical abilities and strengthTechnical skillsPerformance under pressure


  Career Path  

The route to a career in quality control and assurance varies by industry, so there may be differences. However, you'll generally need several years of experience in your industry. Typically, you begin by being hired as a quality assurance or control associate after meeting educational and work experience requirements.



Once you gain work experience as a quality specialist or associate, you may move into a senior specialist position and begin managing teams of quality control specialists. You may attend professional development courses sponsored by your employer or be required to gain certifications such as Six Sigma. You might also need to earn a professional designation such as Certified Quality Inspector.



Moving up the career path, you have more options. You may be able to choose from or be selected to be a:



QA Systems ManagerQA Operations ManagerQA Compliance Manager



These positions can lead up to upper-level management or executive levels within quality control:



Director of QualityHead of ComplianceVice President of Quality


  Quality Control Salaries  

The average pay for quality control professionals differs by industry, experience, and position. Pay increases as you gain more experience and move into management positions. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports average salaries as:



Professional, scientific and technical services: $46,280Manufacturing: $40,020Wholesale trade: $37,800Administrative and support services: $30,070




What Does Quality Control Mean?
Quality control means how a company measures product quality and improves it if need be. Quality control can be done in many ways, from testing products, reviewing manufacturing processes, and creating benchmarks. This is all done to monitor significant variations in a product.




What Are the 4 Types of Quality Control?
There are several methods of quality control. These include an x-bar chart, Six Sigma, 100% inspection mode, and the Taguchi Method.




Why Is Quality Control Important?
Quality control ensures that defective goods do not go out to the public. Companies that have quality control methods in place often have employees who pay close attention to their work.In food and drug manufacturing, quality control prevents products that make customers sick, and in manufacturing, quality control can ensure that accidents don't happen when people use a product.




What Are 3 Examples of Quality Control?
Three examples of quality control could be in the food industry; overseeing the ingredient specifications, reviewing supplier lists, and ensuring the facility where the food product is made is sanitary.


   The Bottom Line  

Having quality control in place within a business helps ensure product quality and the overall success of a business. The quality control environment influences employees' attitudes about the workplace and creates a sense of ownership of the products and company.



Quality control can be done in various ways, from training personnel to creating data-driven tools to test products and set standards. Quality control methods help create a safe work environment and products that are safe to use and meet customers' needs. Additionally, it is a rewarding career for someone that enjoys investigating issues and improving outcomes.
What Is a Quality Control Chart?  

A quality control chart is a graphic that depicts whether sampled products or processes are meeting their intended specifications. If not, the chart will show the degree by which they vary from specifications. A quality control chart that analyzes a specific attribute of a product is called a univariate chart, while a chart measuring variances in several product attributes is called a multivariate chart. Randomly selected products are tested for the given attribute(s) the chart is tracking.





Key Takeaways

A quality control chart is a graphical representation of whether a firm's products or processes are meeting their intended specifications.If problems appear to arise, the quality control chart can be used to identify the degree by which they vary from those specifications and help in error correction.A common depiction of the quality control chart is the x-bar chart, where the y-axis tracks variance of the tested attribute is acceptable in a univariate or multivariate manner.


   Understanding Quality Control Charts  

Quality control (QC) is a set of processes through which a business ensures that product quality is maintained or improved. Quality control requires the business to create an environment in which both management and employees strive for perfection. This is done by training personnel, creating benchmarks for product quality, and testing products to check for statistically significant variations.



A major aspect of quality control is the establishment of well-defined controls. These controls help standardize both production and reactions to quality issues. Limiting room for error by specifying which production activities are to be completed by which personnel reduces the chance that employees will be involved in tasks for which they do not have adequate training.



Quality control charts are a type of control often used by engineers to assess the performance of a firm's processes or finished products. If issues are detected, they can easily be compared to their location on the chart for debugging or error control. In other words, it provides a heuristic blueprint for maintaining quality control.



A common form of the quality control chart is the x-bar (denoted as x̅) chart, where the y-axis on the chart tracks the degree to which the variance of the tested attribute is acceptable. The x-axis tracks the samples tested. Analyzing the pattern of variance depicted by a quality control chart can help determine if defects are occurring randomly or systematically.



The R (range) chart is a quality control chart used to monitor the variation of a process based on small samples taken at specific times.



A quality control chart can also be univariate or multivariate, meaning that it can show whether a product or process deviates from one or from more than one desired result.






Different types of quality control charts, such as X-bar charts, S charts, and Np charts are used depending on the type of data that needs to be analyzed.


   Example of a Quality Control Chart  

For example, Bob wants to know if his widget press is creating widgets that are up to standard. He decides to test the density of a random sampling of widgets to see if the press air injection system is working properly and mixing enough air into the widget batter. An appropriately airy batch of widget batter will cause the finished widget to float in water. Bob creates an x-bar chart to track the degree to which each randomly selected widget is buoyant.
What Is Quality Management?  

Quality management is the act of overseeing all activities and tasks that must be accomplished to maintain a desired level of excellence. This includes the determination of a quality policy, creating and implementing quality planning and assurance, and quality control and quality improvement. It is also referred to as total quality management (TQM).



In general, quality management focuses on long-term goals through the implementation of short-term initiatives.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah





Key Takeaways

Quality management is the act of overseeing all activities and tasks needed to maintain a desired level of excellence. Quality management includes the determination of a quality policy, creating and implementing quality planning and assurance, and quality control and quality improvement. TQM requires that all stakeholders in a business work together to improve processes, products, services and the culture of the company itself.


   Understanding Quality Management  

At its core, TQM is a business philosophy that champions the idea that the long-term success of a company comes from customer satisfaction and loyalty. TQM requires that all stakeholders in a business work together to improve processes, products, services and the culture of the company itself.



While TQM seems like an intuitive process, it came about as a revolutionary idea. The 1920s saw the rise in reliance on statistics and statistical theory in business, and the first-ever known control chart was made in 1924. People began to build on theories of statistics and ended up collectively creating the method of statistical process control (SPC). However, it wasn't successfully implemented in a business setting until the 1950s.



It was during this time that Japan was faced with a harsh industrial economic environment. Its citizens were thought to be largely illiterate, and its products were known to be of low quality. Key businesses in Japan saw these deficiencies and looked to make a change. Relying on pioneers in statistical thinking, companies such as Toyota integrated the idea of quality management and quality control into their production processes.



By the end of the 1960s, Japan completely flipped its narrative and became known as one of the most efficient export countries, with some of the most admired products. Effective quality management resulted in better products that could be produced at a cheaper price.


   Real-World Example of Quality Management  

The most famous example of TQM is Toyota's implementation of the Kanban system. A kanban is a physical signal that creates a chain reaction, resulting in a specific action. Toyota used this idea to implement its just-in-time (JIT) inventory process. To make its assembly line more efficient, the company decided to keep just enough inventory on hand to fill customer orders as they were generated.



Therefore, all parts of Toyota's assembly line are assigned a physical card that has an associated inventory number. Right before a part is installed in a car, the card is removed and moved up the supply chain, effectively requesting another of the same part. This allows the company to keep its inventory lean and not overstock unnecessary assets.
What Is Quality of Life?  

Quality of life is a highly subjective measure of happiness that is an essential component of many financial decisions. Factors that play a role in the quality of life vary according to personal preferences, but they often include financial security, job satisfaction, family life, health, and safety.



Financial decisions can often involve a tradeoff wherein quality of life is decreased to save money or earn more money. Conversely, quality of life can be increased by spending more money.





Key Takeaways

Quality of life can be directly related to job satisfaction.It measures non-financial aspects of a job that might lead to worker happiness or unhappiness.A common quality of life factor includes free time, commute, weather, and harmonious relationships with others.Canada and many Scandinavian countries rank high for the quality of life for its citizens.Individuals may have different metrics for their quality of life.


   Understanding Quality of Life  

Quality of life is a non-financial component associated with job and life satisfaction. When used in a work-related way, qualify of life often refers to the time and ability to do the thing you enjoy. If a job pays a lot of money but requires so many working hours that the worker cannot enjoy any of the money earned, that is a poor quality of life.



If a job provides time to enjoy life but leaves the worker too tired, injured, stressed out, or otherwise unable to enjoy their earnings, this is another detriment to the quality of life. Today, it is common to weigh both salary and quality of life when considering how good or bad a job is.



Quality of life is also an issue when developing a personal savings plan. In this case, the tradeoff involves sacrificing the current quality of life to improve the future quality of life. This may include limiting immediate spending by purchasing lower-cost items rather than buying higher-cost, premium items.


   Quality of Life Factors  

Commuting to work is a good quality of life example. It is possible to save money on housing by living farther away from popular job centers and commuting to work. However, commuters do not have as much time to spend with family or hobbies because of the extra time spent sitting in traffic or using mass transit.



Cheaper housing areas also tend to be located farther from art, culture, and entertainment. Some people consider this tradeoff worthwhile, while others choose to maximize their quality of life by spending more money to live closer to work and culture.



Some jobs can expose employees to potential hazards such as harmful chemicals, heavy machinery, and high risks of falling or another injury. The possibility for harm that could affect their enjoyment of life is weighed against earning a higher salary provided by an unpleasant job to provide the type of lifestyle the worker desires for themselves and their family members.



Hours spent at the job versus free time can be another measure of the quality of life. Professionals may choose to take high-paying jobs that regularly require extended or late work hours to earn the income they desire. This may include prolonged business travel for in-person meetings at distant locations. While such choices can increase money to fund their private lives, it limits the hours available to spend on vacation or other personal endeavors, basically, the things they were saving the money for.



Workplace conditions are another aspect of quality of life. Different jobs may require workers to perform under extreme exertion such as heavy lifting or repetitive labor that can tax the body over time, possibly leading to long-term physical impairments.



Conversely, a job might drastically restrict the worker's movements because of limited space to perform their tasks, such as staffing a toll booth or a remote security guard station.






Quality of life depends on multiple factors, depending on the individual, but having access to good healthcare, clean and safe housing, healthy food, and a job that pays a living wage, will improve one's quality of living.


   Countries With the Best Quality of Life  

According to an annual report from U.S. News and World Report in partnership with the BAV Group and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, the top six countries in 2021 whose inhabitants enjoy the best quality of life around the world are Canada, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, and Australia. The reasons for this title are myriad from economic stability, a robust public educational system, income equality, family-friendly policies and laws, political stability, and an affordable ad well-rounded public health system.



The United States ranked much lower than these six countries and ranked number 20 for its quality of life.


   How to Improve Quality of Life  

If you feel your quality of life lacks in some areas, taking stock of how you define a good quality of life is an excellent first step towards improvement. While everyone's idea of a high-quality life varies, there are some universal markers.



These markers may include access to good healthcare, loving relationships, meaningful work or volunteerism, making time for hobbies you enjoy, good rest, healthy food, and the ability to perform an enjoyable form of exercise all help to improve the quality of one's life.



In addition, studies have found that practicing gratitude and meditation can improve your quality of life. Experts recommend adequate sleep (at the very least seven hours per night) to improve the quality of life and better control mood and energy levels.


   How Governments Can Improve Quality of Life  

There are many ways that a government can improve the quality of its citizens' lives, from funding good public schools, offering affordable access to healthcare, and supporting family-friendly policies, like paid leave to take care of sick family members, or newborn or adopted children, that help families thrive.



Many of the governments in countries listed as having a high quality of life provide services and programs to its citizen to help them improve their lives. These include access to living-wage jobs, affordable or free higher education, better gun control laws, and access to high-quality and affordable healthcare.



The quality of life in the U.S. is lower than in most developed nations due to declines in personal safety, healthcare, and uneven access to high-quality public education.




What Are the Primary Indicators of Quality of Life?
Some primary indicators of quality of life include income and job, housing, education, life-work balance, interpersonal relationships, infrastructure and services, and access to cultural and leisure activities.




How Can We Improve Quality of Life?
If you are looking to improve your quality of life, work on improving your work-life balance, relationships, home, and health by eating nutrient-rich foods, getting enough rest, and finding ways to exercise. Governments can improve the quality of life in their countries by offering affordable and accessible healthcare, investing in education at the primary and secondary level, providing affordable housing, offering family-friendly policies, and putting laws into place for workers to earn liveable wages.




How Is Quality of Life Calculated?
Quality of life can be calculated in many ways. Still, suppose you want an official definition. In that case, the World Health Organization describes it as:  "WHO defines Quality of Life as an individual's perception of their position in life in the context of the culture and value systems in which they live and in relation to their goals, expectations, standards, and concerns."
What Is Quality of Earnings?  

A company's quality of earnings is revealed by dismissing any anomalies, accounting tricks, or one-time events that may skew the real bottom-line numbers on performance. Once these are removed, the earnings that are derived from higher sales or lower costs can be seen clearly.



Even factors external to the company can affect an evaluation of the quality of earnings. For example, during periods of high inflation, quality of earnings is considered poor for many or most companies. Their sales figures are inflated, too.



In general, earnings that are calculated conservatively are considered more reliable than those calculated by aggressive accounting policies. Quality of earnings can be eroded by accounting practices that hide poor sales or increased business risk.



Fortunately, there are generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The more closely a company sticks to those standards, the higher its quality of earnings is likely to be.



Several major financial scandals, including Enron and Worldcom, have been extreme examples of poor earnings quality that misled investors.





Key Takeaways

A company's real quality of earnings can only be revealed by spotting and removing any anomalies, accounting tricks, or one-time events that skew the numbers.Quality of earnings is the percentage of income that is due to higher sales or lower costs. An increase in net income without a corresponding increase in cash flow from operations is a red flag.Tracking activity from the income statement through to the balance sheet and cash flow statement is a good way to gauge quality of earnings.


   Understanding Quality of Earnings  

One number that analysts like to track is net income. It provides a point of reference for how well the company is doing from an earnings perspective. If net income is higher than it was the previous quarter or year, and if it beats analyst estimates, it's a win for the company.



But how reliable are these earnings numbers? Due to the myriad of accounting conventions, companies can manipulate earnings numbers up or down to serve their own needs. 



Some companies manipulate earnings downward to reduce the taxes they owe. Others find ways to artificially inflate earnings to make them look better to analysts and investors.



Companies that manipulate their earnings are said to have poor or low earnings quality. Companies that do not manipulate their earnings have a high quality of earnings.This is because as a company's quality of earnings improves, its need to manipulate earnings to portray a certain financial state decreases. However, many companies with high earnings quality will still adjust their financial information to minimize their tax burden.



As noted above, companies with a high quality of earnings stick with the GAAP standards. The fundamental qualities of those standards are reliability and relevance. That is:



Reliability: The metric is verifiable, free from error or bias, and accurately represents the transaction.Relevance: The metric is timely and has predictive power. It can confirm or contradict prior predictions and has value when making new predictions.


   How Quality of Earnings Works  

There are many ways to gauge the quality of earnings by studying a company's annual report.



Analysts usually start at the top of the income statement and work their way down. For instance, companies that report high sales growth may also show high growth in credit sales. Analysts are wary of sales that are due only to loose credit terms. (Changes in credit sales, or accounts receivable, can be found on the balance sheet and cash flow statement.)



Working down the income statement, analysts then might look for variations between operating cash flow and net income. A company that has a high net income but negative cash flows from operations is achieving those apparent earnings somewhere other than sales.



One-time adjustments to net income, also known as nonrecurring income or expenses, are another red flag. For example, a company may decrease expenses in the current year by refinancing all of its debt into a future balloon payment. This would lower debt expense and increase net income for the current year while pushing the repayment problem down the road. Naturally, long-term investors don't care for that move.


  Example of Earnings Manipulation  

A company can manipulate popular earnings measures such as earnings per share and price-to-earnings ratio by buying back shares of its own stock, which reduces the number of shares outstanding. In this way, a company with declining net income may be able to post earnings-per-share growth.



When earnings-per-share goes up, the price-to-earnings ratio goes down. That should signal that the stock is undervalued. It doesn't, though, if the company changed the number by simply repurchasing shares.



It is particularly worrisome when a company takes on additional debt to finance stock repurchases. Companies might do this to artificially inflate the per-share price of their stock by reducing the number of shares available for purchase on the open market, thus giving the impression that the value of the stock has increased.
What Is Quality Spread Differential (QSD)?  

Quality spread differential (QSD) is used to calculate the difference between market interest rates that two parties potentially entering into an interest rate swap are able to achieve. It is a measurement that companies can use to gauge counterparty risk in an interest rate swap.





Key Takeaways

A quality spread differential (QSD) is the difference between market interest rates achieved by two parties who enter an interest rate swap.It is a measurement that companies can use to gauge counterparty risk in an interest rate swap.The QSD is calculated by subtracting the contracted market rate by the rate available to the counter-party on similar rate instruments.When the QSD is positive, the swap is considered to benefit both parties involved.


   Understanding Quality Spread Differential (QSD)  

QSD is a measure used by companies of different creditworthiness in interest rate swap analysis. They use a QSD to gauge default risk. When the QSD is positive, the swap is considered to benefit both parties involved.



A quality spread provides a credit quality measure for both parties involved in an interest rate swap. The quality differential is calculated by subtracting the contracted market rate by the rate available to the counter-party on similar rate instruments.



The difference between the two quality spreads can be calculated as follows:



QSD = Fixed-rate debt premium differential - Floating-rate debt premium differential  



The fixed-rate debt differential is typically larger than that of the floating-rate debt.






Bond investors can use the quality spread to decide whether higher yields are worth the extra risk.


   Interest Rate Swaps  

Interest rate swaps trade on institutional market exchanges or through direct agreements between counterparties. They allow one entity to swap their credit risk with another using different types of credit instruments.



A typical interest rate swap will include a fixed rate and a floating rate. A company that seeks to hedge against paying higher rates on its floating-rate bonds in a rising rate environment would swap the floating-rate debt for fixed-rate debt. The counterparty takes the opposite view of the market and believes rates will fall, so it wants the floating-rate debt to pay off its obligations and obtain a profit.



For example, a bank may swap its floating-rate bond debt currently at 6% for a fixed-rate bond debt of 6%. Companies can match debt with varying maturity lengths depending on the swap contract length. Each company agrees to the swap using the instruments it has issued.


   Quality Spread Differential (QSD) Example  

Here's an example of how QSDs work. Company A, swapping its floating-rate debt, will receive a fixed rate. Company B, swapping its fixed-rate debt, will receive a floating rate. The QSD is usually not calculated based on the rates of the instruments used. The creditworthiness of both companies is different.



If Company A (AAA-rated) uses a two-year term floating-rate debt at 6% and Company B (BBB-rated) uses a five-year fixed-rate debt at 6%, then the QSD would need to be calculated based on the rates versus the market rates.



Company A’s 6% rate on the two-year floating-rate debt compares to a 7% rate obtained for Company B on a two-year floating-rate debt, so this quality spread is 1%. For a five-year fixed-rate debt, Company A pays 4% where Company B pays 6%, so the quality spread is 2%. The key is to use similar products in the quality spread calculation in order to compare rates of similar issues.



In the example above, this would be 2% minus 1%, resulting in a QSD of 1%. Remember, a positive QSD indicates a swap is in the interest of both parties because there is a favorable default risk. If the AAA-rated company had a significantly higher floating-rate premium to the lower credit quality company, it would result in a negative QSD. This would likely cause the higher-rated company to seek a higher-rated counterpart.
What Is a Quant Fund?  

A quant fund is an investment fund whose securities are chosen based on numerical data compiled through quantitative analysis. These funds are considered non-traditional and passive. They are built with customized models using software programs to determine investments. 



Proponents of quant funds believe that choosing investments using inputs and computer programs helps fund companies cut down on the risks and losses associated with management by human fund managers.





Key Takeaways

A quant fund makes investment decisions based on the use of advanced mathematical models and quantitative analysis.Managers utilize algorithms and custom-built computer models to pick their investments. Investors are turning to and sticking with quantitative analysis within funds because of the rising availability of market data. Although quant funds utilize state-of-the-art technology, the use of quantitative analysis isn't new.


   How a Quant Fund Works  

Quant funds rely on algorithmic or systematically programmed investment strategies. As such, they don't use the experience, judgment, or opinions of human managers to make investment decisions. They use quantitative analysis rather than fundamental analysis, which is why they're also called quantitative funds. Not only can they be one of many investment offerings supported by asset managers, but they may also be part of the central management focus of specialized investment managers.



Greater access to a broader range of market data fueled the growth of quant funds, not to mention the growing number of solutions surrounding the use of big data. Developments in financial technology and increasing innovation around automation have vastly broadened the data sets quant fund managers can work with, giving them even more robust data feeds for a broader analysis of scenarios and time horizons. 



Large asset managers have looked to increase their investment in quantitative strategies as fund managers struggle to beat market benchmarks over time. Smaller hedge fund managers also round out the total quant fund offerings in the investment market. Overall, quant fund managers seek talented individuals with accredited academic degrees and highly technical experience in mathematics and programming.






Quantitative strategies are often referred to as a Black Box due to the high level of secrecy surrounding the algorithms they use.


  Quant Fund Performance  

Quant fund programming and quantitative algorithms have thousands of trading signals they can rely on, ranging from economic data points to trending global asset values and real-time company news. Quant funds are also known for building sophisticated models around momentum, quality, value, and financial strength using proprietary algorithms developed through advanced software programs.



Quant funds have attracted a considerable amount of interest and investment because of the returns they have generated over the years. However, according to a report by Institutional Investor, they've been underperforming since 2016. In the five years leading up to 2021, the report said the MSCI World index and the equity quant index generated annualized returns of 11.6% and 0.88%, respectively.



Institutional Investor claimed that the equity quant index was up 10.2% in 2010, 15.3% in 2011, 8.8% in 2012, 14.7% in 2013, 10.4% in 2014, and 9.2% in 2015.


  A Brief History of Quant Strategies  

The basis for quantitative analysis and, therefore, quant funds, has a history that dates back eight decades, with the publishing of a 1934 book called Security Analysis. Written by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, the book advocated investing based on the rigorous measurement of objective financial metrics related to specific stocks.



Security Analysis has been followed by further publications related to quantitative investment strategies, such as Joel Greenblatt’s The Little Book that Beats the Market and James O'Shaughnessy’s What Works on Wall Street. 


   Special Considerations  

Quant funds are often classified as alternative investments since their management styles differ from more traditional fund managers.



Quant funds typically run on a lower-cost basis because they don't need as many traditional analysts and portfolio managers to run them. However, their trading costs tend to be higher than traditional funds, due to a higher turnover of securities. Their offerings are also generally more complex than standard funds and it is common for some of them to target high-net-worth investors or have high fund entrance requirements.



Some investors consider quant funds to be among the most innovative and highly technical offerings in the investment universe. They encompass a wide range of thematic investment styles and often deploy some of the industry’s most groundbreaking technologies.



Successful quant funds keep a close eye on risk control due to the nature of their models. Most strategies start with a universe or benchmark and use sector and industry weightings in their models. This allows the funds to control the diversification to a certain extent without compromising the model itself.


  Risks of Quant Fund Strategies  

Some have argued that quant funds present a systemic risk and do not embrace the concept of letting a black box run their investments. For all the successful quant funds out there, just as many seem to be unsuccessful. Unfortunately, for the quants' reputation, when they fail, they often fail big time.



Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) was one of the most famous quant hedge funds, as it was run by some of the most respected academic leaders and two Nobel Memorial Prize-winning economists, Myron S. Scholes and Robert C. Merton. During the 1990s, their team generated above-average returns and attracted capital from all types of investors. They were famous for not only exploiting inefficiencies but using easy access to capital to create enormous leveraged bets on market directions.



The disciplined nature of their strategy actually created the weakness that led to their collapse. LTCM was liquidated and dissolved in early 2000. Its models did not include the possibility that the Russian government could default on some of its own debt. This one event triggered events, and a chain reaction magnified by leverage created havoc. LTCM was so heavily involved with other investment operations that its collapse affected the world markets, triggering dramatic events. In the end, the Federal Reserve (Fed) stepped in to help, and other banks and investment funds supported LTCM to prevent any further damage.






Quant funds can fail as they are largely based on historical events and the past doesn't always repeat itself in the future.



While a strong quant team will be constantly adding new aspects to the models to predict future events, it's impossible to predict the future every time. Quant funds can also become overwhelmed when the economy and markets are experiencing greater than average volatility. The buy and sell signals can come so quickly that high turnover can create high commissions and taxable events.



Quant funds can also pose a danger when they are marketed as bear-proof or are based on short strategies. Predicting downturns using derivatives and combining leverage can be dangerous. One wrong turn can lead to implosions, which often make the news.

What Is a Quantity-Adjusting Option (Quanto Option)?  

A quantity-adjusting option, commonly called a Quanto option, is a cross-currency derivative in which the underlying asset is denominated in one currency but settlement is made in another currency at a predetermined exchange rate.



Another name for these options is a guaranteed exchange rate option. Quanto options come in both call and put varieties.





Key Takeaways

The Quanto option is designed to remove currency rate risk as a factor in foreign options trading.The options contract specifies that the underlying asset is denominated in one currency while settlement is to be made in another currency.Quanto options have been a key factor in opening up international transactions in foreign markets whose currencies tend to be volatile.Quanto options are a type of exotic derivative and usually trade over the counter.


   Understanding the Quanto Option  

Quantity-adjusting options get their name from their potential currency forward nature, with a variable notional, or abstract, amount. Hence the term "quantity adjusted" or "Quanto," for short.



Investors use Quantos when they believe that a particular asset will do well in a country but fear that the country's currency will not perform as well. Thus, the investor will buy an option in the foreign asset while keeping the payout in the home currency.






The quanto option is a type of exotic option. These are customizable transactions and are normally traded over-the-counter rather than on an exchange.


   Benefits of Quanto Options  

All financial markets are volatile, and currency markets are not immune. A U.S.-based investor who invests directly in a foreign stock index, for example, is exposed to the risk that the foreign index will underperform, and the risk that the currency will fluctuate in the wrong direction. At worst, both could happen.



Quantos are settled at a fixed rate of exchange. That shelters the investor from exchange-rate risk. At the time of expiration, the option's value is calculated in the foreign currency and then converted at a fixed rate into the domestic currency.



The Quanto option removes currency risk for overseas investors. That increases investor confidence and encourages investment in smaller or riskier markets.  



Both the strike price and the underlying asset are valued in the foreign currency. At the time of exercise, calculation of the option's intrinsic value is in the foreign currency. This foreign currency value is converted to the investor's domestic currency at the fixed exchange rate.


   Types of Quanto Options  

Quantos are in most ways identical to traditional equity options. The critical difference is that they are purchased in the investor's domestic currency but denominated in the asset's foreign currency. At inception, the Quanto contract fixes the exchange rate between the two currencies. This fixed exchange rate remains in force for the duration of the contract.



There are variations on quantity-adjusting options contracts. One is the Nikkei 225, which is traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME Group). The underlying asset for the futures contract is the Nikkei 225 Stock Index. The contract is settled in U.S. dollars rather than in Japanese yen.



There are also Quanto swaps available. In a swap, one of the counterparties pays a foreign interest rate to the other party, while the notional amount is in the domestic currency.





The Quanto Feature

Derivatives with Quanto features are common, due to their ability to protect the international investor from currency price swings. They may be found in futures, forwards, vanilla options, and exotic notes.




What Is a Quanto Contract?
Like any options contract, a Quanto contract is an agreement between two parties to complete a transaction on a specific future date at a specific price.The unusual aspect of a Quanto contract is its specification that the settlement will be made in a currency other than the one that the investment is valued in.




What Is a Quanto Swap?
A quanto swap is an options contract to exchange interest rates in two distinct currencies. The parties pay each other in one of the two currencies.A quanto swap may also be called a guaranteed exchange rate swap or a rate differential swap (abbreviated "diff swap.")




What Is the Difference Between a Quanto and Compo Option?
A compo option, or "comp" option, is a variation on the quanto option. The foreign asset or the payoff price may be denominated in the domestic currency or in a foreign currency, with a final decision made at settlement. The party who elects to change the settlement currency pays a fee for making the switch.


   The Bottom Line  

The quanto option removes a source of risk from foreign investing.



That is, it protects the investor from a steep decline in the value of the foreign asset's home currency that could coincide with the contract settlement date. The contract establishes that the payout will be valued in the investor's currency rather than the foreign currency.
What Is Quantitative Analysis (QA)?  

Quantitative analysis (QA) is a technique that uses mathematical and statistical modeling, measurement, and research to understand behavior. Quantitative analysts represent a given reality in terms of a numerical value. Quantitative analysis is applied to the measurement, performance evaluation, valuation of a financial instrument, and predicting real-world events such as changes in a country's gross domestic product (GDP).












Investopedia / Hilary Allison





Key Takeaways

Quantitative analysis (QA) is a technique uses mathematical and statistical modeling, measurement, and research that to understand behavior.Quantitative presents reality in terms of a numerical value.Quantitative analysis is used for the evaluation of a financial instrument and predicting real-world events such as changes in GDP.


   Understanding Quantitative Analysis (QA)  

Quantitative analysis provides analysts with tools to examine and analyze past, current, and anticipated future events. Any subject involving numbers can be quantified; thus, QA is used in many fields including analytical chemistry, financial analysis, social science, and organized sports. In the financial world, analysts who rely strictly on QA are frequently referred to as "quants" or "quant jockeys."






Governments rely on QA to make monetary and other economic policy decisions. As a component of QA, governments and central banks commonly track and evaluate statistical data, such as GDP and employment figures.



In the financial services industry, QA is used to analyze investment opportunities, such as when to purchase or sell securities. Investors perform QA when using key financial ratios, such as the price-earnings ratio (P/E) or earnings per share (EPS), in their investment decision-making process (e.g., whether to purchasing shares of a company's stock). QA ranges from the examination of simple statistical data (e.g., revenue) to complex calculations (e.g., discounted cash flow or option pricing).


  Quantitative Analysis Versus Qualitative Analysis  

While QA serves as a useful evaluation tool, it is often combined with the complementary research and evaluation tool qualitative analysis. It is common for a company to use quantitative analysis to evaluate figures such as sales revenue, profit margins, or return on assets (ROA).



However, to get a better picture of a company's performance, analysts also evaluate information that is not easily quantifiable or reduced to numeric values, such as reputation or employee morale. Qualitative analysis focuses on meanings, involves sensitivity to context rather than the desire to obtain universal generalizations, and establishes rich descriptions rather than quantifiable metrics. Qualitative analysis seeks to answer the "why" and "how" of human behavior.



In a combined qualitative and quantitative analysis project, a company, analyst, or investor might wish to evaluate the strength of a product. Qualitative tools used for the project can include customer surveys and panel discussions. A quantitative analysis of the product can also be initiated through the examination of data regarding numbers of repeat customers, customer complaints, and the number of warranty claims over a given period.



QA is not the opposite of qualitative analysis; they are just different philosophies. Used together, they provide useful information for informed decisions that promote a better society, improve financial positions, and enhance business operations.
What Is Quantitative Easing (QE)?  

Quantitative easing (QE) is a form of monetary policy in which a central bank, like the U.S. Federal Reserve, purchases securities from the open market to reduce interest rates and increase the money supply.



Quantitative easing creates new bank reserves, providing banks with more liquidity and encouraging lending and investment. In the United States, the Federal Reserve implements QE policies.





Key Takeaways

Quantitative easing is a form of monetary policy used by central banks to increase the domestic money supply and spur economic activity.In QE, the central bank purchases government bonds and other financial instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities (MBS).Quantitive easing is typically implemented when interest rates are near zero and economic growth is stalled.In the United States, the Federal Reserve implements quantitative easing policies.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Quantitative Easing (QE)  

Quantitive easing is often implemented when interest rates hover near zero and economic growth is stalled. Central banks have limited tools, like interest rate reduction, to influence economic growth. Without the ability to lower rates further, central banks must strategically increase the supply of money.



To execute quantitative easing, central banks buy government bonds and other securities, injecting bank reserves into the economy. Increasing the supply of money lowers interest rates further and provides liquidity to the banking system, allowing banks to lend with easier terms.



One of the most recent periods of quantitative easing took place during the COVID-19 pandemic, when the Federal Reserve increased its holdings, accounting for 56% of the Treasury issuance of securities through the first quarter of 2021.



A government's fiscal policy may be implemented concurrently to expand the money supply. While the Federal Reserve can influence the supply of money in the economy, The U.S. Treasury Department can create new money and implement new tax policies with fiscal policy, sending money, directly or indirectly, into the economy. Quantitative easing can be a combination of both monetary and fiscal policy.


   Does Quantitative Easing (QE) Work?  

Most economists believe that the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program helped to rescue the U.S. and the global economy following the 2007-2008 financial crisis, however, the results of QE are difficult to quantify.



Globally, central banks have attempted to deploy quantitative easing as a means of preventing recession and deflation in their countries with similarly inconclusive results. While QE policy is effective at lowering interest rates and boosting the stock market, its broader impact on the economy isn’t apparent.



Commonly, the effects of quantitative easing benefit borrowers over savers and investors over non-investors, and there are pros and cons to QE, according to Stephen Williamson, a former economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.


   Risks of Quantitative Easing (QE)  
  Inflation  

As money is increased in an economy, the risk of inflation looms. As the liquidity works through the system, central banks remain vigilant, as the time lag between the increase in the money supply and the inflation rate is generally 12 to 18 months.



A quantitative easing strategy that does not spur intended economic growth but causes inflation can also create stagflation, a scenario where both the inflation rate and the unemployment rate are high.


  Limited Lending  

As liquidity increases for banks, a central bank like the Fed cannot force banks to increase lending activities nor can they force individuals and businesses to borrow and invest. This creates a “credit crunch,” where cash is held at banks or corporations hoard cash due to an uncertain business climate.


  Devalued Currency  

Quantitative easing may devalue the domestic currency as the money supply increases. While a devalued currency can help domestic manufacturers with exported goods cheaper in the global market, a falling currency value makes imports more expensive, increasing the cost of production and consumer price levels.






   Real-World Examples of Quantitative Easing (QE)  
  United States  

To combat the Great Recession, the U.S. Federal Reserve ran a quantitative easing program from 2009-2014. The Federal Reserve's balance sheet increased with bonds, mortgages, and other assets. U.S. bank reserves grew to over $4 trillion by 2017 providing liquidity to lend those reserves and stimulate overall economic growth. However, banks held $2.7 trillion in excess reserves, an unexpected outcome of the Federal Reserve's QE program.



In 2020, the Fed announced its plan to purchase $700 billion in assets as an emergency QE measure following the economic and market turmoil spurred by the COVID-19 shutdown. However, in 2022, the Federal Reserve dramatically shifted its monetary policy to include significant interest rate hikes and a reduction in the Fed’s asset holdings to sidetrack the persistent trend of higher inflation that emerged in 2021.


  Europe and Asia  

Following the Asian Financial Crisis of 1997, Japan fell into an economic recession. The Bank of Japan began an aggressive quantitative easing program to curb deflation and stimulate the economy, moving from buying Japanese government bonds to buying private debt and stocks. The quantitative easing campaign failed to meet its goals as the Japanese gross domestic product (GDP) fell from roughly $5.45 trillion to $4.52 trillion.



The Swiss National Bank (SNB) also employed a quantitative easing strategy following the 2008 financial crisis and the SNB owned assets that exceeded the annual economic output for the entire country. Although economic growth was spurred, it is unclear how much of the subsequent recovery can be attributed to the SNB's quantitative easing program.



In August 2016, the Bank of England (BoE) launched a quantitative easing program to help address the potential economic ramifications of Brexit. By buying 60 billion pounds of government bonds and 10 billion pounds in corporate debt, the plan was intended to keep interest rates from rising and stimulate business investment and employment.



By June 2018, the Office for National Statistics in the U.K. reported that gross fixed capital formation was growing at an average quarterly rate of 0.4%, lower than the average rate from 2009 through 2018. U.K. economists were unable to determine whether or not growth would have been evident without this quantitative easing program.




How Does Quantitative Easing Work?
Quantitative easing is a type of monetary policy in which a nation’s central bank tries to increase the liquidity in its financial system, typically by purchasing long term government bonds from that nation’s largest banks and stimulating economic growth by encouraging banks to lend or invest more freely.




Is Quantitative Easing Printing Money?
Critics have argued that quantitative easing is effectively a form of money printing and point to examples in history where money printing has led to hyperinflation. However, proponents of quantitative easing claim that banks act as intermediaries rather than placing cash directly in the hands of individuals and businesses so quantitative easing carries less risk of producing runaway inflation.




How Does Quantitative Easing Increase Bank Lending?
QE replaces bonds in the banking system with cash, effectively increasing the money supply, and making it easier for banks to free up capital, so they can underwrite more loans and buy other assets. A bank can lend any deposits above its 10% in reserve.


   The Bottom Line  

Quantitative easing is a form of monetary policy in which a central bank, like the U.S. Federal Reserve, purchases securities through open market operations to increase the supply of money and encourage bank lending and investment. QE policies have been implemented globally, however, their impact on a country's economy is often debated.
What Was Quantitative Easing 2 (QE2)  

QE2 refers to the second round of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program that sought to stimulate the U.S. economy following the 2008 financial crisis and Great Recession. Announced in November 2010, QE2 consisted of an additional $600 billion in purchases of U.S. Treasuries and the reinvestment of proceeds from prior mortgage-backed security purchases.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ 





Key Takeaways

QE2 was a round of quantitative easing initiated by the Federal Reserve in late 2010 that expanded its balance sheet by $600 billion.﻿﻿Quantitative easing refers to strategies a central bank can use to increase the domestic money supply via asset purchases.Central banks turn quantitative easing when interest rates are at or near 0% levels.QE2 was followed by QE3 in September 2012.﻿﻿


   Understanding QE2  

Quantitative easing stimulates an economy through a central bank's purchase of government bonds or other financial assets. Often, central banks use quantitative easing when interest rates are already zero or at near 0% levels. This type of monetary policy increases the money supply and typically raises the risk of inflation. Quantitative easing is not specific to the U.S. and is used in a variety of forms by central banks around the world.



QE2 came at a time when the U.S. recovery remained patchy. While equity markets had recovered from 2008 lows, unemployment remained high at 9.8%—two percentage points above Great Recession levels.﻿﻿﻿ The fundamental reason behind QE2 was to shore up bank liquidity and lift inflation. At the time of the announcement, U.S. consumer prices had remained stubbornly low.﻿﻿﻿



Interest rates initially rose after the announcement, with the 10-year yield trading above 3.5%. However, from February 2011, three months after the announcement, the 10-year yield began a two-year year decline, falling 200 basis points to trade under 1.5%.﻿﻿﻿


   The Impact of QE2  

QE2 was relatively well received, with most economists noting that while asset prices were propped up, the health of the banking sector was still a relative unknown. It was less than two years since the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and with confidence still low, it was prudent to promote investment through cheaper money. The policy was not without its critics. Some economists noted that previous easing measures had lowered rates but did relatively little to increase lending. With the Fed buying securities with money that it had essentially created out of thin air, many also believed it would leave the economy vulnerable to out-of-control inflation once the economy fully recovered.



Two years later, the Federal Reserve embarked on its third round of quantitative easing (QE3),﻿﻿﻿ something that was not as well received with many saying the Fed balance sheet had expanded to an already lofty level and it was time to seek alternative strategies.
What Is Quantitative Trading?  

Quantitative trading consists of trading strategies based on quantitative analysis, which rely on mathematical computations and number crunching to identify trading opportunities. Price and volume are two of the more common data inputs used in quantitative analysis as the main inputs to mathematical models.



As quantitative trading is generally used by financial institutions and hedge funds, the transactions are usually large and may involve the purchase and sale of hundreds of thousands of shares and other securities. However, quantitative trading is becoming more commonly used by individual investors.





Key Takeaways

Quantitative trading utilizes mathematical functions and automated trading models to make trading decisions. In this type of trading, backtested data are applied to various scenarios to help identify opportunities for profit.The advantage of quantitative trading is that it allows for optimal use of available data and eliminates the emotional decision-making that can occur during trading. A disadvantage of quantitative trading is that it has limited use: a quantitative trading strategy loses its effectiveness once other market actors learn of it, or as market conditions change.High-frequency trading (HFT) is an example of quantitative trading at scale.


   Understanding Quantitative Trading  

Quantitative traders take advantage of modern technology, mathematics, and the availability of comprehensive databases for making rational trading decisions.



Quantitative traders take a trading technique and create a model of it using mathematics, and then they develop a computer program that applies the model to historical market data. The model is then backtested and optimized. If favorable results are achieved, the system is then implemented in real-time markets with real capital.



The way quantitative trading models function can best be described using an analogy. Consider a weather report in which the meteorologist forecasts a 90% chance of rain while the sun is shining. The meteorologist derives this counterintuitive conclusion by collecting and analyzing climate data from sensors throughout the area.



A computerized quantitative analysis reveals specific patterns in the data. When these patterns are compared to the same patterns revealed in historical climate data (backtesting), and 90 out of 100 times the result is rain, then the meteorologist can draw the conclusion with confidence—hence, the 90% forecast. Quantitative traders apply this same process to the financial market to make trading decisions.






Historical price, volume, and correlation with other assets are some of the more common data inputs used in quantitative analysis as the main inputs to mathematical models.


   Examples of Quantitative Trading  

Depending on the trader's research and preferences, quantitative trading algorithms can be customized to evaluate different parameters related to a stock. Consider the case of a trader who believes in momentum investing. They can choose to write a simple program that picks out the winners during an upward momentum in the markets. During the next market upturn, the program will buy those stocks.



This is a fairly simple example of quantitative trading. Typically an assortment of parameters, from technical analysis to value stocks to fundamental analysis, is used to pick out a complex mix of stocks designed to maximize profits. These parameters are programmed into a trading system to take advantage of market movements.






Quantitative trading techniques are utilized extensively by certain hedge funds, high-frequency trading (HFT) firms, algorithmic trading platforms, and statistical arbitrage desks. These techniques may involve rapid-fire order execution and typically have short-term investment horizons.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Quantitative Trading  

The objective of trading is to calculate the optimal probability of executing a profitable trade. A typical trader can effectively monitor, analyze and make trading decisions on a limited number of securities before the amount of incoming data overwhelms the decision-making process. The use of quantitative trading techniques illuminates this limit by using computers to automate the monitoring, analyzing, and trading decisions.



Overcoming emotion is one of the most pervasive problems with trading. Be it fear or greed, when trading, emotion serves only to stifle rational thinking, which usually leads to losses. Computers and mathematics do not possess emotions, so quantitative trading eliminates this problem.



Quantitative trading does have its problems. Financial markets are some of the most dynamic entities that exist. Therefore, quantitative trading models must be as dynamic to be consistently successful. Many quantitative traders develop models that are temporarily profitable for the market condition for which they were developed, but they ultimately fail when market conditions change.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  Do quant traders make a lot of money?  

Because they must possess a certain level of mathematical skill, training, and knowledge, quant traders are often in demand on Wall St. Indeed, many quants have advanced degrees in fields like applied statistics, computer science, or mathematical modeling. As a result, successful quants can earn a great deal of money, especially if they are employed by a successful hedge fund or trading firm.


  What is a quantitative trader?  

Quantitative traders, or quants for short, use mathematical models and large data sets to identify trading opportunities and buy and sell securities.


  How do I become a quant?  

An aspiring quant trader needs to be exceptionally skilled and interested in all things mathematical. A bachelor's degree in math, a master's degree in financial engineering or quantitative financial modeling, or an MBA are all helpful for scoring a job; many analysts will also have a Ph.D. in these or similar fields. In addition to an advanced degree, a quant should also have experience and familiarity with data mining, research methods, statistical analysis, and automated trading systems.


  What is the difference between algorithmic and quantitative trading?  

The primary difference is that algorithmic trading is able to automate trading decisions and executions. While a human can be a quant, computers are much faster and more accurate than even the most dexterous trader.


  Where can I learn algorithmic or quantitative trading for free?  

Because quant trading requires a mastery of math, statistics, and programming, it is unlikely to be the case that one can simply read a few books and become adept. Rather, successful quants invest a great deal of time and money in formal education, industry credentialing, and self-study. Additionally, the cost of the trading systems and infrastructure to begin trading as a quant are high and capital-intensive.
What Is Quantity Demanded?  

Quantity demanded is a term used in economics to describe the total amount of a good or service that consumers demand over a given interval of time. It depends on the price of a good or service in a marketplace, regardless of whether that market is in equilibrium.



The relationship between the quantity demanded and the price is known as the demand curve, or simply the demand. The degree to which the quantity demanded changes with respect to price is called the elasticity of demand.





Key Takeaways

In economics, quantity demanded refers to the total amount of a good or service that consumers demand over a given period of time.Quantity demanded depends on the price of a good or service in a marketplace.The price of a product and the quantity demand for that product have an inverse relationship, according to the law of demand.


   Understanding Quantity Demanded  
  Inverse Relationship of Price and Demand  

The price of a good or service in a marketplace determines the quantity that consumers demand. Assuming that non-price factors are removed from the equation, a higher price results in a lower quantity demanded and a lower price results in higher quantity demanded. Thus, the price of a product and the quantity demanded for that product have an inverse relationship, as stated in the law of demand.






An inverse relationship means that higher prices result in lower quantity demand and lower prices result in higher quantity demand.


  Change in Quantity Demanded  

A change in quantity demanded refers to a change in the specific quantity of a product that buyers are willing and able to buy. This change in quantity demanded is caused by a change in the price.


  Increase in Quantity Demanded  

An increase in quantity demanded is caused by a decrease in the price of the product (and vice versa). A demand curve illustrates the quantity demanded and any price offered on the market. A change in quantity demanded is represented as a movement along a demand curve. The proportion that quantity demanded changes relative to a change in price is known as the elasticity of demand and is related to the slope of the demand curve.












Julie Bang / Investopedia 


   An Example of Quantity Demanded  

Say, for example, at the price of $5 per hot dog, consumers buy two hot dogs per day; the quantity demanded is two. If vendors decide to increase the price of a hot dog to $6, then consumers only purchase one hot dog per day. On a graph, the quantity demanded moves leftward from two to one when the price rises from $5 to $6. If, however, the price of a hot dog decreases to $4, then customers want to consume three hot dogs: the quantity demanded moves rightward from two to three when the price falls from $5 to $4. 



By graphing these combinations of price and quantity demanded, we can construct a demand curve connecting the three points.



Using a standard demand curve, each combination of price and quantity demanded is depicted as a point on the downward sloping line, with the price of hot dogs on the y-axis and the quantity of hot dogs on the x-axis. This means that as price decreases, the quantity demanded increases. Any change or movement to quantity demanded is involved as a movement of the point along the demand curve and not a shift in the demand curve itself. As long as consumers' preferences and other factors don't change, the demand curve effectively remains static.



Price changes change the quantity demanded; changes in consumer preferences change the demand curve. If, for example, environmentally conscious consumers switch from gas cars to electric cars, the demand curve for traditional cars would inherently shift.


   Price Elasticity of Demand  

The proportion to which the quantity demanded changes with respect to price is called elasticity of demand. A good or service that is highly elastic means the quantity demanded varies widely at different price points.



Conversely, a good or service that is inelastic is one with a quantity demanded that remains relatively static at varying price points. An example of an inelastic good is insulin. Regardless of price point, those who need insulin demand it at the same amount.




What Affects Quantity Demanded?
Quantity demanded is affected by the price of the product. If the price goes up, the demand will go down. If the price goes down, demand will go up. Price and demand are inversely related in this way.




Does Quantity Demanded Only Apply to Physical Goods?
No. Quantity demanded can apply to service products as well. For example, if a photographer offers family portrait sessions for a lower price, they should book more sessions. If they price them higher, they will book fewer sessions.




What Is the Difference Between Demand and Quantity Demanded?
Demand and quantity demanded both pertain to purchasing but in different ways. Demand is just how many of an item a consumer is willing to buy—the sheer quantity. Quantity demanded is how many things a consumer will purchase at a specific price. Quantity demanded is a more detailed metric. Graphed out, demand is the entirety of the demand curve, whereas quantity demanded is a single point.
What Is a Quantity Discount?  

A quantity discount is an incentive offered to a buyer that results in a decreased cost per unit of goods or materials when purchased in greater numbers. A quantity discount is often offered by sellers to entice customers to purchase in larger quantities. 



The seller is able to move more goods or materials, and the buyer receives a more favorable price for them. At the consumer level, a quantity discount can appear as a BOGO (buy one, get one discount) or other incentives, such as buy two, get one free.





Key Takeaways

A quantity discount is an incentive offered to buyers that results in a decreased cost per unit of goods or materials when purchased in greater numbers.Enticing buyers to purchase in bulk enables sellers to increase their units per transaction (UPT), lower their inventories, and potentially reduce per-unit costs.Discounts can have an adverse impact on profit per unit, also known as the marginal profit.An alternative to quantity discount is linear pricing: charging the same price regardless of how many items the customer buys.


   How a Quantity Discount Works  

Retailers often get better deals if they order more of the same item. For example, the cost per unit for t-shirts might be $7.50 per unit if fewer than 48 pieces are ordered; $7.25 per unit if 49-72 pieces are ordered; or $7 per unit if 73 or more pieces are ordered.



Depending on the quantity discount, all pieces ordered must be delivered and paid for by a certain date. Alternatively, the purchases and payments can be spread out over a specified period of time.



By selling in larger quantities, the seller can increase their revenues per transaction (RPT). The vendor can also scale quantity discounts in "steps," with lower per-unit prices at higher quantities to encourage bulk buyers. For instance, a coat maker that employs "steps" in its pricing strategy could offer coats at $20 each, five for $90, and 10 for $160. 


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Quantity Discounts  
  Advantages  

Quantity discounting can be fruitful. The principal benefit is to increase total sales volume in order to realize economies of scale. Quantity discounts boost units per transaction (UPT). The resulting increased sales volume can lead to economies of scale in the form of purchasing goods and materials in bulk at a quantity discount from suppliers, and the ability to combine incidental per-order costs, such as shipping and packaging, into one sale. These economies of scale have the potential to reduce per-unit costs to the seller.



Quantity discounting can also come in handy when a seller is keen to lower its inventory. Taking such action can be particularly useful when the product in question risks going out of fashion or becoming obsolete, due to a technological breakthrough.


  Disadvantages  

There are several caveats to this strategy, though. The main drawback of quantity discounts is that the discount squeezes profit per unit, also known as the marginal profit, unless sufficient economies of scale are realized to at least offset the discount offer.



So, if the per-unit cost for the coat company is $10, the company makes a $10 profit on every single $20 sale. However, if the company offers quantity discounts of $2 per coat for orders of five coats and $4 per coat for orders of 10 coats, then it makes only $8 in marginal profit on an order of five and $6 in marginal profit on an order of 10. That would of course change if the coat company is able to save money by, for example, buying in bulk from its suppliers.


   Quantity Discount vs. Linear Pricing  

When companies price their goods and services, they generally have two options: quantity discounting or linear pricing. A linear pricing strategy is simpler to manage for business owners than quantity discount pricing and makes it easier for them to maintain the marginal profit on each item.



For instance, a T-shirt company that employs linear pricing would sell a single shirt for $20, five shirts for $100, and 10 for $200. If each shirt costs $10 to make, each shirt will bring in $10 in marginal profit, regardless of how many are sold in an order.



The primary drawback of linear pricing is that it does not provide an incentive to buy in larger quantities. When customers order only single items, the price per transaction stays the same. Linear pricing also denies the business owner the opportunity to take advantage of economies of scale.




What Is an Example of a Quantity Discount?
If a company sells a product that costs $5, buying 100 of those units would cost $500. To entice buyers to purchase its product, a company may offer a quantity discount, selling 100 units for $450, which would make the per unit cost $4.50 instead of $5; a 10% discount.




What Is the Purpose of Quantity Discounts?
The purpose of quantity discounts is purely to sell more products. By offering lower per-unit costs through quantity discounts, a seller entices a buyer to purchase its products since it's a better deal for the buyer.




How Is Quantity Discount Calculated?
To calculate the quantity discount, divide the total cost by the number of items at each quantity level to determine the per-unit cost. For example, if you are getting 100 items for $300, the per-unit cost is $3 (300/100). If you are getting 200 items for $400, the per-unit cost is $2 (400/200). You can then compare these per-unit costs to the cost of buying the unit individually without a quantity discount.


   The Bottom Line  

Quantity discounts mean a buyer is buying in bulk and receiving a lower cost per item than they would if they bought the items individually. Quantity discounts are cost-effective for people or companies who know they need a product consistently. For example, buying toilet paper in bulk helps save costs for a household. Similarly, if a company knows it needs timber to make houses, it can buy in bulk to save on raw material costs.
What Is Quantity Supplied?  

In economics, quantity supplied describes the number of goods or services that suppliers will produce and sell at a given market price. The quantity supplied differs from the actual amount of supply (the total supply) as price changes influence how much supply producers actually put on the market. How supply changes in response to changes in prices is called the price elasticity of supply.





Key Takeaways

The quantity supplied is the amount of a good or service that is made available for sale at a given price point.In a free market, higher prices tend to lead to a higher quantity supplied and vice versa.The quantity supplied differs from the total supply and is usually sensitive to price.At higher prices, the quantity supplied will be close to the total supply, while at lower prices, the quantity supplied will be much less than the total supply.The quantity supplied can be influenced by many factors, including the elasticity of supply and demand, government regulation, and changes in input costs.


   Understanding Quantity Supplied  

The quantity supplied is price sensitive within limits. In a free market, higher prices generally lead to a higher quantity supplied and vice versa. However, the total current supply of finished goods acts as a limit, as there will be a point where prices increase enough to where it will incentivize the quantity produced in the future to increase. In cases like this, the residual demand for a product or service usually leads to further investment in the growing production of that good or service.



In the case of price decreases, the ability to reduce the quantity supplied is constrained by a few different factors depending on the good or service. One is the operational cash needs of the supplier.






The quantity supplied depends on the price level, which can be set by market forces or a governing body by using price ceilings or floors.


   Quantity Supplied Under Regular Market Conditions  

The optimal quantity supplied is the amount that completely satisfies current demand at prevailing prices. To determine this quantity, known supply and demand curves are plotted on the same graph. Quantity is on the x-axis and price is on the y-axis on the supply and demand graphs.



The supply curve is upward-sloping because producers are willing to supply more of a good at a higher price. The demand curve is downward-sloping because consumers demand less quantity of a good when the price increases.



The equilibrium price and quantity are where the two curves intersect. The equilibrium point shows the price point where the quantity that the producers are willing to supply equals the quantity that the consumers are willing to purchase.



This is the market equilibrium quantity to supply. If a supplier provides a lower quantity, it is losing out on potential profits. If it supplies a higher quantity, not all of the goods it provides will sell.


   Factors That Impact the Supply Curve  

Three key factors impact the supply curve—technology, production costs, and the price of other goods. 


  Technology   

Technological improvements can help boost supply, making the process more efficient. These improvements shift the supply curve to the right—increasing the amount that can be produced at a given price. Now, if technology does not improve and deteriorates over time then production can suffer, forcing the supply curve to shift left.


  Production Costs   

As the cost of producing a product increases, with all other things being equal, then the supply curve will shift leftward (less will be able to be produced profitably at a given price). Thus, changes in production costs and input prices cause an opposite move in supply. As production costs rise, supply falls, and vice versa. Examples of production costs include wages and manufacturing overhead. Decreases in overhead costs and labor push the supply curve to the right (increasing supply) as it becomes cheaper to produce the goods.


  Price of Other Goods   

The price of other goods or services can affect the supply curve. There are two types of other goods—joint products and producer substitutes. Joint products are products produced together. Producer substitutes are substitute goods that can be created using the same resources. 



Joint products, for example, for a company that raises steers are leather and beef. These products are produced together. There’s a direct relationship between the price of a good and the supply of its joint product. If the price of leather goes up, ranchers raise more steer, which increases the supply of beef (leather's joint product). 



Now, for a producer substitute, the producer can produce one good or another. Consider a farmer who can either grow soybeans or corn. If the price of corn increases, farmers will look to grow more corn, decreasing the supply of soybeans. Thus, an inverse relationship exists before a good’s price and the supply of the producer's substitute.


   Market Forces and Quantity Supplied  

Market forces are generally seen as the best way to ensure the quantity supplied is optimal, as all the market participants can receive price signals and adjust their expectations. That said, some goods or services have their quantity supplied dictated or influenced by the government or a government body.



In theory, this should work fine as long as the price-setting body has a good read of the actual demand. Unfortunately, price controls can punish suppliers and consumers when they are not set at rates that approximate a market equilibrium. If a price ceiling is set too low, suppliers are forced to provide a good or service that may not return the cost of production including a normal profit]. This can lead to losses and fewer producers. If a price floor is set too high, particularly for critical goods, consumers are forced to use more income to meet their basic needs.



In most cases, suppliers want to charge high prices and sell large amounts of goods to maximize profits. While suppliers can usually control the number of goods available on the market, they do not control the demand for goods at different prices. As long as market forces are allowed to run freely without regulation or monopolistic control by suppliers, consumers share control of how goods sell at given prices.



Consumers want to be able to satisfy their demand for products at the lowest price possible. If a good is fungible or a luxury, then consumers can curb their buying or seek alternatives. This dynamic tension in a free market ensures that most goods are cleared at competitive prices.


   Example of Quantity Supplied  

Consider a carmaker—Green’s Auto Sales—that sells automobiles. The carmaker’s competitors have been raising prices leading into the summer months. The average car in their market now sells for $25,000 versus the previous average selling price of $20,000.



Green’s decides to increase its supply of cars to boost profits. Leading up to the summer months, it was selling 100 cars per month, earning $2 million in revenue. The cost to make and sell each car was $15,000, making Green’s net profit $500,000. 



With the average selling price up to $25,000, the new net profit per month is $1 million. Thus, raising the quantity supplied of cars will increase Green’s profits.




What Is the Difference Between Supply and Quantity Supplied?
Supply is the entire supply curve, while quantity supplied is the exact figure supplied at a certain price. Supply, broadly, lays out all the different qualities provided at every possible price point. 




What Is the Difference Between Demand and Quantity Demanded?
Quantity demanded is the exact amount of a good or service demanded at a given price. More broadly, demand is the ability or willingness of a buyer to pay for the good or service at the offered price point.  Demand charts all the amount of demand at each given price. 




What Are the Factors That Affect Quantity Demanded?
Five key factors affect quantity demanded: the price of the good, the income of the buyer, the price of related goods, consumer tastes, and the customer’s expectations of future supply and price.


   The Bottom Line  

There are many situations where a supplier may be forced to give up profits or even sell at a loss because of cash flow requirements. This is often seen in commodity markets where barrels of oil or pork bellies must be moved as the production levels cannot be quickly turned down. There is also a practical limit to how much of a good can be stored and how long while waiting for a better pricing environment.
What Is the Quantity Theory of Money?  

The quantity theory of money is a theory that variations in price relate to variations in the money supply. It is most commonly expressed and taught using the equation of exchange and is a key foundation of the economic theory of monetarism.





Key Takeaways

The quantity theory of money is a framework to understand price changes in relation to the supply of money in an economy.It argues that an increase in money supply creates inflation and vice versa.The Irving Fisher model is most commonly used to apply the theory. Other competing models were formulated by British economist John Maynard Keynes, Swedish economist Knut Wicksell, and Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises.The other models are dynamic and posit an indirect relationship between money supply and price changes in an economy.


   Understanding the Quantity Theory of Money  

The most common version, sometimes called the "neo-quantity theory" or Fisherian theory, suggests there is a mechanical and fixed proportional relationship between changes in the money supply and the general price level. This popular, albeit controversial, formulation of the quantity theory of money is based upon an equation by American economist Irving Fisher.



The Fisher equation is calculated as:



﻿














M


×


V


=


P


×


T
















where:
















M


=


money supply
















V


=


velocity of money
















P


=


average price level
















T


=


volume of transactions in the economy







\begin{aligned} &\text{M} \times \text{V} = \text{P} \times \text{T} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{M} = \text{money supply} \\ &\text{V} = \text{velocity of money} \\ &\text{P} = \text{average price level} \\ &\text{T} = \text{volume of transactions in the economy} \\ \end{aligned}


​M×V=P×Twhere:M=money supplyV=velocity of moneyP=average price levelT=volume of transactions in the economy​﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Generally speaking, the quantity theory of money explains how increases in the quantity of money tends to create inflation, and vice versa. In the original theory, V was assumed to be constant and T is assumed to be stable with respect to M, so that a change in M directly impacts P. In other words, if the money supply increases then the average price level will tend to rise in proportion (and vice versa), with little effect on real economic activity.



For example, if the Federal Reserve (Fed) or European Central Bank (ECB) doubled the supply of money in the economy, the long-run prices in the economy would tend to increase dramatically. This is because more money circulating in an economy would equal more demand and spending by consumers, driving prices up.


   Criticism of Fisher's Quantity Theory of Money  

Economists disagree about how quickly and how proportionately prices adjust after a change in the quantity of money, and about how stable V and T actually are with respect to time and to M.






The classical treatment in most economic textbooks is based on the Fisher Equation, but competing theories exist.



The Fisher model has many strengths, including simplicity and applicability to mathematical models. However, it uses some assumptions that other economists have questioned to generate its simplicity, including the neutrality of the money supply and transmission mechanism, the focus on aggregate and average variables, the independence of the variables, and the stability of V.


   Competing Quantity Theories  
  Monetarists  

Monetarist economics, usually associated with Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, advocate the Fisher model, albeit with some modifications. In this view, V may not be constant or stable, but it does vary predictably enough with business cycle conditions that its variation can be adjusted for by policymakers and mostly ignored by theorists.



From their interpretation, monetarists often support a stable or consistent increase in money supply. While not all economists accept this view, more economists accept the monetarist claim that changes in the money supply cannot affect the real level of economic output in the long run.


  Keynesians  

Keynesians more or less use the same framework as monetarists, with few exceptions. John Maynard Keynes rejected the direct relationship between M and P, as he felt it ignored the role of interest rates. Keynes also argued the process of money circulation is complicated and not direct, so individual prices for specific markets adapt differently to changes in the money supply.



His theory emphasized that velocity (V) is not constant or stable, but can swing widely based on optimism or fear and uncertainty about the future, which drives liquidity preference. Keynes believed inflationary policies could help stimulate aggregate demand and boost short-term output to help an economy achieve full employment.


  Knut Wicksell and the Austrians  

The most serious challenge to Fisher came from Swedish economist Knut Wicksell, whose theories developed in continental Europe, while Fisher's grew in the United States and Great Britain. Wicksell, along with Austrian economists such as Ludwig von Mises and Joseph Schumpeter, agreed that increases in the quantity of money led to higher prices.



In their view, however, an artificial stimulation of the money supply through the banking system would distort prices unevenly, particularly in the capital goods sectors. This, in turn, shifts real wealth unevenly and could even cause business cycles.



The dynamic Wicksellian, Austrian, and Keynesian models stand in contrast to the static Fisherian model. Unlike the monetarists, adherents to the later models don't advocate a stable price level in monetary policy.
What Is a Quanto Swap?  

A quanto swap is a cash-settled, cross-currency interest rate swap, where one of the counterparties pays a foreign interest rate to the other. The notional amount is denominated in the domestic currency. Interest rates may be fixed or floating.



Because they depend on the currency exchange rate and differences in interest rates in those currencies, they are also known as differential, rate differential, or just "diff" swaps. Another name for these swaps could also be guaranteed exchange rate swap because they naturally embed a fixed currency exchange rate in the swap contract.





Key Takeaways

A quanto swap is a derivative transaction where two parties exchange interest rates in different currencies.Quanto swaps may also be known as guaranteed exchange rate swaps, differential, rate differential, or simply "diff' swaps.Although the payments reference exchange rates in two different currencies, the principal for both payments is in the same currency. Quanto swaps are useful to investors who believe that a particular asset will do well in a certain country, but that country's currency will not do well.Quanto swaps can used fixed or floating interest rates. A fixed-for-floating swap has slightly higher risk, but reduces foreign exchange risks.


   Understanding a Quanto Swap  

Though quanto swaps deal with two different currencies, payments are settled in just one. For example, a possible quanto swap would involve a U.S. investor paying six-month LIBOR in U.S. dollars, for a US $1 million loan, and receive in return, payments in U.S. dollars at the six-month EURIBOR + 75 basis points.



Fixed-for-floating quanto swaps allow an investor to minimize foreign exchange risk. This avoidance of risk is achieved by fixing both the exchange rate and interest rate at the same time.



Floating-for-floating swaps have a slightly higher risk. In this cross-currency swap, exposure of each party to the spread of each country's currency interest rate happens.






Quanto swaps and options are useful for investors who want exposure to a foreign market, but not foreign exchange risk.


   Benefits of Quanto Swaps  

Investors will use quanto swaps when they believe that a particular asset will do well in a country, but at the same time, fear that the country's currency will not perform as well. Thus, the investor will swap the interest rates with another investor while keeping the payout in their home currency. In this way, they can separate interest rate risk from exchange rate risk.



In a typical interest rate swap, two agreeable counterparties exchange one stream of future interest payments for another, with a basis of a specific principal amount. These swaps require the exchange of a fixed interest rate value for a floating rate value. The swap may be in either direction but is built to reduce or to increase exposure to the changes in interest rates. An interest rate swap may also help obtain a marginally lower interest rate than would have been possible without the swap.



However, for an investor in a different country wishing to engage in a swap in the U.S. market, they first would have to exchange their asset from their home currency into U.S. dollars. Each payment is made in U.S. dollars, which the foreign investor must then transfer back into their home currency.



This strategy will involve potential interest rate risk, depending on whether the foreign investor receives floating-rate payments. It also creates a foreign exchange, or currency risk. A quanto swap solves this problem because all future exchange rates are fixed at the time of the swap contract writing.






Quanto swaps can exchange a fixed interest rate for a floating interest rate, or they can swap between two floating rates. This is slightly riskier than a fixed-for-floating swap.


   Requirements for a Quanto Swap  

There are four important considerations when trading a quanto swap. The first is the notional value of the underlying asset, usually a loan. This value is priced in the asset's home currency.



The second two figures are the index rates of the two currencies, which can be fixed or floating. One rate represents the interest rate of the home currency, the other represents the international currency that is used to settle the transaction.



The last consideration is the date of maturity, when the underlying loan or obligation comes due.






A Quanto is any type of derivative instrument that is settled in a different currency than the underlying asset. In addition to quanto swaps, there are also quanto options, quanto futures, and quanto CDSs.


   Example of a Quanto Swap  

As a demonstrative example of a quanto swap, imagine a European company that borrows $1 million to fund operations in the United States, to be repaid over five years with interest based on the 3-month SOFR rate. In this example, the current SOFR is 5%, but the EURIBOR is only 1%.



Suppose further that the company expects U.S. rates to increase, relative to European interest rates. In that case, they would be better off exchanging the SOFR-based interest payments for a EURIBOR-based rate.



The company would try to execute a quanto swap to replace their SOFR-based payments for an interest rate based on EURIBOR+4%, although they will continue to pay in dollars.



If the company's predictions about interest rates are correct, they will end up saving money in the long run.




What Is a Quanto Credit Default Swap?
A quanto credit default swap is a credit default swap where the swap premium or cashflows are paid in a different currency than the underlying asset. These are useful for international investors who wish to gain exposure to CDS in another country but want to reduce their exposure to exchange rate risk.




What Is a Quanto Option?
A quanto option is an options contract that is denominated in a different currency than the underlying asset. When the option matures, any payoff is received in foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate. This is useful for traders who wish to gain exposure to foreign options markets but who do not want to expose themselves to exchange rate risk.




Is a Quanto Swap the Same as a Cross-Currency Swap?
A quanto swap is not the same as a cross-currency swap, although there are some similarities. A typical cross-currency swap involves two parties that exchange principal and cash flows in two different currencies, along with predetermined interest rates. In a quanto swap, one party pays another at a foreign interest rate, but using a local currency.




What Is Quanto Risk?
Quanto risk refers to the possibility of adverse changes in the asset prices or exchange rates used in a quanto option or swap.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Quantum Computing?  

Quantum computing is an area of computer science that uses the principles of quantum theory. Quantum theory explains the behavior of energy and material on the atomic and subatomic levels.



Quantum computing uses subatomic particles, such as electrons or photons. Quantum bits, or qubits, allow these particles to exist in more than one state (i.e., 1 and 0) at the same time.



Theoretically, linked qubits can "exploit the interference between their wave-like quantum states to perform calculations that might otherwise take millions of years."



Classical computers today employ a stream of electrical impulses (1 and 0) in a binary manner to encode information in bits. This restricts their processing ability, compared to quantum computing.





Key Takeaways

Quantum computing uses phenomena in quantum physics to create new ways of computing.Quantum computing involves qubits. Unlike a normal computer bit, which can be either 0 or 1, a qubit can exist in a multidimensional state.The power of quantum computers grows exponentially with more qubits.Classical computers that add more bits can increase power only linearly.


   Understanding Quantum Computing  

The field of quantum computing emerged in the 1980s. It was discovered that certain computational problems could be tackled more efficiently with quantum algorithms than with their classical counterparts.



Quantum computing has the capability to sift through huge numbers of possibilities and extract potential solutions to complex problems and challenges. Where classical computers store information as bits with either 0s or 1s, quantum computers use qubits. Qubits carry information in a quantum state that engages 0 and 1 in a multidimensional way.



Such massive computing potential and the projected market size for its use have attracted the attention of some of the most prominent companies. These include IBM, Microsoft, Google, D-Waves Systems, Alibaba, Nokia, Intel, Airbus, HP, Toshiba, Mitsubishi, SK Telecom, NEC, Raytheon, Lockheed Martin, Rigetti, Biogen, Volkswagen, and Amgen. 


   Uses and Benefits of Quantum Computing  

Quantum computing could contribute greatly to the fields of security, finance, military affairs and intelligence, drug design and discovery, aerospace designing, utilities (nuclear fusion), polymer design, machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), Big Data search, and digital manufacturing. 



Quantum computers could be used to improve the secure sharing of information. Or to improve radars and their ability to detect missiles and aircraft. Another area where quantum computing is expected to help is the environment and keeping water clean with chemical sensors.



Here are some potential benefits of quantum computing:



Financial institutions may be able to use quantum computing to design more effective and efficient investment portfolios for retail and institutional clients. They could focus on creating better trading simulators and improve fraud detection.The healthcare industry could use quantum computing to develop new drugs and genetically-targeted medical care. It could also power more advanced DNA research.For stronger online security, quantum computing can help design better data encryption and ways to use light signals to detect intruders in the system.Quantum computing can be used to design more efficient, safer aircraft and traffic planning systems.





40%

Percentage of large companies planing to create initiatives around quantum computing by 2025, according to research by Gartner.


   Features of Quantum Computing  

Superposition and entanglement are two features of quantum physics on which quantum computing is based. They empower quantum computers to handle operations at speeds exponentially higher than conventional computers and with much less energy consumption.


  Superposition  

According to IBM,  it's what a qubit can do rather than what it is that's remarkable. A qubit places the quantum information that it contains into a state of superposition. This refers to a combination of all possible configurations of the qubit. "Groups of qubits in superposition can create complex, multidimensional computational spaces. Complex problems can be represented in new ways in these spaces."


  Entanglement  

Entanglement is integral to quantum computing power. Pairs of qubits can be made to become entangled. This means that the two qubits then exist in a single state. In such a state, changing one qubit directly affects the other in a manner that's predictable.



Quantum algorithms are designed to take advantage of this relationship to solve complex problems. While doubling the number of bits in a classical computer doubles its processing power, adding qubits results in an exponential upswing in computing power and ability.


  Decoherence  

Decoherence occurs when the quantum behavior of qubits decays. The quantum state can be disturbed instantly by vibrations or temperature changes. This can cause qubits to fall out of superposition and cause errors to appear in computing. It's important that qubits be protected from such interference by, for instance, supercooled refridgerators, insulation, and vacuum chambers.


   Limitations of Quantum Computing  

Quantum computing offers enormous potential for developments and problem-solving in many industries. However, currently, it has its limitations.



Decoherence, or decay, can be caused by the slightest disturbance in the qubit environment. This results in the collapse of computations or errors to them. As noted above, a quantum computer must be protected from all external interference during the computing stage.Error correction during the computing stage hasn't been perfected. That makes computations potentially unreliable. Since qubits aren't digital bits of data, they can't benefit from conventional error correction solutions used by classical computers.Retrieving computational results can corrupt the data. Developments such as a particular database search algorithm that ensures that the act of measurement will cause the quantum state to decohere into the correct answer hold promise.Security and quantum cryptography is not yet fully developed.A lack of qubits prevents quantum computers from living up to their potential for impactful use. Researchers have yet to produce more than 128.



According to global energy leader Iberdola, "quantum computers must have almost no atmospheric pressure, an ambient temperature close to absolute zero (-273°C) and insulation from the earth's magnetic field to prevent the atoms from moving, colliding with each other, or interacting with the environment."



"In addition, these systems only operate for very short intervals of time, so that the information becomes damaged and cannot be stored, making it even more difficult to recover the data."


   Quantum Computer vs. Classical Computer  

Quantum computers have a more basic structure than classical computers. They have no memory or processor. All a quantum computer uses is a set of superconducting qubits.



Quantum computers and classical computers process information differently. A quantum computer uses qubits to run multidimensional quantum algorithms. Their processing power increases exponentially as qubits are added. A classical processor uses bits to operate various programs. Their power increases linearly as more bits are added. Classical computers have much less computing power.



Classical computers are best for everyday tasks and have low error rates. Quantum computers are ideal for a higher level of task, e.g., running simulations, analyzing data (such as for chemical or drug trials), creating energy-efficient batteries. They can also have high error rates.



Classical computers don't need extra-special care. They may use a basic internal fan to keep from overheating. Quantum processors need to be protected from the slightest vibrations and must be kept extremely cold. Super-cooled superfluids must be used for that purpose.



Quantum computers are more expensive and difficult to build than classical computers.






In 2019, Google proved that a quantum computer can solve a problem in minutes, while it would take a classical computer 10,000 years.


   Quantum Computers In Development  
  Google  

Google is spending billions of dollars to build its quantum computer by 2029. The company opened a campus in California called Google AI to help it meet this goal. Once developed, Google could launch a quantum computing service via the cloud.


  IBM  

IBM plans to have a 1,000-qubit quantum computer in place by 2023. For now, IBM allows access to its machines for those research organizations, universities, and laboratories that are part of its Quantum Network. 


  Microsoft  

Microsoft offers companies access to quantum technology via the Azure Quantum platform.  


  Others  

There’s interest in quantum computing and its technology from financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase and Visa.




What Is Quantum Computing in Simplest Terms?
Quantum computing relates to computing made by a quantum computer. Compared to traditional computing done by a classical computer, a quantum computer should be able to store much more information and operate with more efficient algorithms. This translates to solving extremely complex tasks faster.




How Hard Is It to Build a Quantum Computer?
Building a quantum computer takes a long time and is vastly expensive. Google has been working on building a quantum computer for years and has spent billions of dollars. It expects to have its quantum computer ready by 2029. IBM hopes to have a 1,000-qubit quantum computer in place by 2023.




How Much Does a Quantum Computer Cost?
A quantum computer cost billions to build. However, China-based Shenzhen SpinQ Technology plans to sell a $5,000 desktop quantum computer to consumers for schools and colleges. Last year, it started selling a quantum computer for $50,000.




How Fast Is a Quantum Computer?
A quantum computer is many times faster than a classical computer or a supercomputer. Google’s quantum computer in development, Sycamore, is said to have performed a calculation in 200 seconds, compared to the 10,000 years that one of the world’s fastest computers, IBM's Summit, would take to solve it. IBM disputed Google's claim, saying its supercomputer could solve the calculation in 2.5 days. Even so, that's 1,000 times slower than Google's quantum machine.


   The Bottom Line  

Quantum computing is very different from classical computing. It uses qubits, which can be 1 or 0 at the same time. Classical computers use bits, which can only be 1 or 0.



As a result, quantum computing is much faster and more powerful. It is expected to be used to solve a variety of extremely complex, worthwhile tasks.



While it has its limitations at this time, it is poised to be put to work by many high-powered companies in myriad industries.
What Is Quarter on Quarter (QOQ)?  

Quarter on quarter (QOQ) is a measuring technique that calculates the change between one fiscal quarter and the previous fiscal quarter. The term is similar to the year-over-year (YOY) measure, which compares the quarter of one year (such as the first quarter of 2020) to the same quarter of the previous year (the first quarter of 2019). The measure gives investors and analysts an idea of how a company is growing over each quarter.





Key Takeaways

QOQ compares a change in performance between one fiscal quarter and the previous fiscal quarter.QOQ reflects short-term changes in various metrics and can indicate company performance over two quarters.Businesses that have income fluctuations or peak earnings at certain times may need to make seasonal adjustments or use a YOY metric to measure performance.


   Understanding Quarter on Quarter  

QOQ allows a business to monitor shorter-term changes and to progress toward goals or benchmarks set for the year. It can provide valuable information as to how a company is performing and allow the company to respond and make process changes if required.



Often, the QOQ measure is used to compare the earnings between quarters. For example, ABC Company's first-quarter earnings were $1.50 per share, and its second-quarter earnings were $1.75 per share. By calculating the QOQ growth between quarters ($1.75 - $1.50/$1.50), it's clear that the company has grown its earnings by 16.6%, which is a positive indicator for investors.


   Quarter on Quarter in Practice  

When used in financial or accounting principles, a quarter is a consecutive three-month period within the year. Traditionally, the first quarter (Q1) refers to January, February, and March. Each subsequent three-month period represents Q2, Q3, and Q4.



When used as part of a QOQ analysis, a business would compare financials from Q2 (April, May, June) to Q1 (January, February, March). This comparison varies from YOY where the same quarter is compared from one year to the next. For example, Q1 of 2019 is compared to Q1 of 2018 in a YOY review.






Comparing quarters on a year-over-year (YOY) basis can be more effective than on a quarter on quarter (QOQ) basis, as it gives a broader picture of company health and is not impacted by seasonal issues.


   Challenges with QOQ Analysis  

There are circumstances where QOQ analysis may not provide a holistic view of the health of an organization. For example, if an industry experiences seasonal sales variance, such as landscapers or seasonal sellers, what may appear to be a downward trend may be an industry norm. The same can apply if a business experiences higher earnings during a peak season that may reflect abnormally high growth from one quarter to the next. An organization may choose to adjust the figures seasonally and compensate for regular shifts in business giving a more accurate picture throughout the year. Since YOY analysis involves the examination of the same quarter from one year to the next, it does not typically require a seasonal adjustment to provide valuable data.


   Real-World Example  

A company's earnings report from one quarter to the next can affect the market. A disappointing earnings report can cause the stock to plunge as investors try to sell off the stock before the price drops.



In 2018, Amazon's third-quarter earnings exceeded analysts' estimates, but Amazon's guidance for the fourth quarter fell short of expectations, and the company's stock price plunged in response to the announcement. The last quarter of the year includes the holidays and is typically Amazon's busiest season. Fourth-quarter revenue guidance was significantly below the consensus and caused concern among shareholders. Amazon stock plunged by 10%, although it eventually recovered as investors priced in the news.
What Is Quarter Over Quarter (Q/Q)?  

Quarter over quarter (Q/Q) is a measure of an investment or a company's growth from one quarter to the next. Q/Q growth is most commonly used to compare a company's growth in profits or revenue although it can also be used to describe changes in an economy's money supply, gross domestic product (GDP), or other economic measurements.





Key Takeaways

Quarter over quarter (Q/Q) measures the growth of an investment or a company from one quarter to the next.Q/Q is also used to measure changes in other important statistics, such as gross domestic product (GDP).Analysts consider Q/Q when reviewing a company’s performance over multiple quarterly periods.Quarterly results can be found via the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or on a company's website.Comparing Q/Q information among companies with different quarter start dates can distort an analysis due to seasonal factors or temporary environmental conditions.There are other variations on Q/Q such as month over month and year-over-year.


   Understanding Quarter Over Quarter (Q/Q)  

Investors and analysts examine financial statements, which are released either yearly or quarterly, to assess the financial health of a company. The quarterly statements are publicly available through the EDGAR database provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or a company's website, and are called 10-Q statements. Analysts look at Q/Q numbers and changes when reviewing a company’s performance over multiple quarterly periods.



Q/Q is a rate of change in performance between one fiscal quarter and the previous quarter. A quarter is generally three months or 90 days. Q/Q measures the changes in the growth rate of different financial numbers and metrics found in the financial statements from one period to the next. Typically, the comparison is between reports from one quarter of the company's fiscal year with the reports from the previous quarter. Q/Q is calculated as follows:



(Current quarter - previous quarter) / previous quarter



Certain economic reports are released quarterly and compared to previous quarters to indicate economic growth or decline. For example, the gross domestic product (GDP) report, released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), is released on a quarterly basis and influences the decisions of the government, businesses, and individuals.



The report shows how GDP has changed from one quarter to the next and can signal possible economic outcomes, such as a recession or depression, as a recession is considered to be a decline in GDP over two consecutive quarters. Analyzing the change in GDP from quarter to quarter will allow policymakers to make policy adjustments to avoid further economic fallout, for example, if they are witnessing a declining GDP.


   Variations of Quarter Over Quarter (Q/Q)  

Other variations of Q/Q are month over month (M/M) and year-over-year (YOY). The month over month measures growth over previous months but tends to be more volatile than Q/Q as the rate of change is affected by one-time events, such as natural disasters. The YOY measures changes in performance in one year over the previous year. YOY incorporates more data and thus provides a better long-term picture of the underlying report figure. The Q/Q rate of change is typically more volatile than the YOY measurement but less volatile than the M/M figure.


   Real World Example  

The table below shows the Q1 and Q2 earnings of Intel Corporation and IBM Corporation for 2018.










 (in millions)
 Intel
 IBM


 Q1 Earnings
 $4,500
 $1,700


 Q2 Earnings
 $5,000
 $2,400


 Q/Q change
 ($5,000 - $4,500) / $4,500
 ($2,400 - $1,700) / $1,700


  
 = 11%
 = 41%






Source: IBM, 2018; Intel, 2018



While Intel’s earnings grew by 11% from the first to the second quarter in 2018, IBM’s earnings grew by an impressive 41% Q/Q. However, note that only two consecutive quarters have been examined. An investor would examine several other quarters to see if these changes are a trend or just seasonal or temporary adjustments.



Comparing Q/Q information among companies with different quarter start dates can distort an analysis—the time included may vary, and seasonal factors may become skewed. An investor would have to consider several quarters over a period of time to determine whether changes reflect an ongoing trend or are impacted by external factors. It is important for any investor to remove the effects of seasonality when they can when making comparisons of companies with different quarter start dates.
What Is a Fiscal Quarter (Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4)?  

A quarter is a three-month period on a company's financial calendar that acts as a basis for periodic financial reports and the paying of dividends. A quarter refers to one-fourth of a year and is typically expressed as Q1 for the first quarter, Q2 for the second quarter, and so forth. For example, a quarter is often shown with its relevant year, as in Q1 2022 or Q1'22, which represents the first quarter of the year 2022.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

A quarter is a three-month period on a company's financial calendar that acts as a basis for periodic financial reports and the paying of dividends.A quarter refers to one-fourth of a year and is typically expressed as Q1 for the first quarter, etc., and can be expressed with the year, such as Q1 2022 (or Q1'22).Quarterly reports (known as 10-Q filings with the SEC) and earnings are crucial pieces of information for investors and analysts.The IRS also imposes quarterly reporting requirements including quarterly estimated tax payments for certain taxpayers.Though beneficial for organizing financial information and comparing it across prior quarterly periods, adversaries of quarters point to the extra reporting cost and burden.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Quarters  

Most financial reporting and dividend payments are done quarterly. Not all companies will have fiscal quarters that correspond to calendar quarters and it is common for a company to close its fourth quarter after its busiest time of year. Dividends are also often paid quarterly although many companies outside the U.S. may not pay dividends evenly.



Companies have two main accounting periods—the fiscal quarter and the fiscal year (FY). The fiscal year for most companies runs from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31 (although it doesn't have to). The standard calendar quarters that make up the year are as follows:



January, February, and March (Q1)April, May, and June (Q2)July, August, and September (Q3)October, November, and December (Q4)



Some companies have fiscal years that follow different dates. Costco Wholesale Corporation's fiscal year begins in September and ends in the following August. Thus, its fiscal fourth-quarter includes June, July, and August.






Fiscal quarters for a company will coincide with their fiscal year (FY), and the fourth fiscal quarter will also conclude on the same date as the fiscal year.


   The Seasonality Effect  

Companies, investors, and analysts use data from different quarters to make comparisons and evaluate trends. For example, it is common for a company’s quarterly report to be compared to the same quarter of the previous year. Many companies are seasonal which would make a comparison over sequential quarters misleading.



A retail company could earn half its annual profits in the fourth quarter while a construction company does most of its business in the first three quarters. In this situation, comparing the first quarter results for a department store to its performance during the fourth quarter would indicate an alarming drop in sales.



Evaluating a seasonal company during its slow quarters can be enlightening. It is reasonable to assume that if sales and profits are growing in the off-quarters when compared to the same quarter in prior years, the intrinsic strength of the company is also improving.



For example, auto dealers typically have a slow first quarter and rarely conduct incentive sales programs in February and March. Thus, if an auto dealer saw significant improvement in sales in the first quarter, this year compared to last, it may indicate the potential for surprisingly strong sales in the second and third quarters as well.


   Uses of Fiscal Quarters  

There are several different ways in which companies interact with fiscal quarters. Public companies generally have more reporting requirements than private companies, and specific decisions public companies make (i.e. issuing dividends) revolve around quarters.






Companies aren't the only ones using quarters for financial reasons. The Internal Revenue Service requires certain taxpayers to make quarterly estimated tax payments using Form 941. This form is used to remit payroll taxes multiple times in a single year.


  Quarterly Reports  

Quarterly earnings reports are important for publicly traded companies and their investors. Each release has the potential to affect the value of a company’s stock. If a company has a good quarter, its stock value may increase. If the company has a poor quarter the value of its stock could drop dramatically.



All public companies in the U.S. must file quarterly reports, known as Form 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) at the end of their first three fiscal quarters. Each 10-Q includes unaudited financial statements and operations information for the previous three months (quarter).



A publicly-traded company must also file an annual report, known as Form 10-K. The annual report will often include more detailed information than the quarterly reports including an audit statement, presentations, and additional disclosures.



The quarterly earnings report often includes forward-looking “guidance” for what management expects from the next few quarters or through the end of the year. These estimates are used by analysts and investors to develop their expectations for performance over the next few quarters.



The estimates and guidance provided by analysts and management can have a big impact on a stock every three months. If management issues guidance for the next quarter that is worse than expected, the stock’s price will drop. Similarly, if management issues guidance—or an analyst upgrades their independent estimates—the stock can rise significantly.


  Quarterly Dividends  

In the U.S., most companies that pay a dividend will distribute it more or less evenly over four quarters. In many economies outside the U.S., it is common to split the annual dividend into quarterly payments with one of the payments being much larger than the others. It is also not unusual to find companies outside the U.S. that only pay one dividend per year.



The payment of quarterly dividends can create some volatility in a stock's price when the ex-date arrives. Some analysts have noticed that investors may rebalance or sell their stock on the ex-date or soon after when the dividend growth rate appears to be slowing or other changes in the market make the dividend less attractive.






Some companies may report using "halves", or H1 and H2 to divide their year into two parts instead of four. The first half of the year, or H1, always includes the first and second quarter. The second half of the year, or H2, always includes the third and fourth quarter.


  Non-Standard Quarters  

For a variety of reasons, some public companies will use a non-standard or non-calendar quarterly reporting system. In addition, certain governments use different quarter systems. The first quarter of the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year is October, November, and December. State governments may also have their own fiscal calendars.



Sometimes a company may have a non-standard fiscal year to help with business or tax planning. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows companies to choose a “tax year” that is still 52-53 weeks long but does not end in December.



In 2021, H&R Block (HRB) changed its fiscal year to end on June 30th, from the previous April 30th. Upon announcing this, it stated that the change “allows for better alignment of complete tax seasons in comparable fiscal periods and other related benefits."



Releasing an annual report, which may be accompanied by shareholder meetings and additional disclosures, after the busiest part of a company's year helps managers and shareholders make better decisions about the year ahead.



Companies that rely on U.S. government contracts may use September as the end of their fiscal year, and the fourth quarter because that is when they expect new projects to be closed and budget planning from the government to be available. Meanwhile, some companies have very unusual quarterly systems.


   Criticism of Quarters  

Some have questioned the importance of the quarterly reporting system. The big argument against the setup is that it puts too much pressure on companies and executives to deliver short-term results to please analysts and investors as opposed to focusing on the long-term interests of the business.



The other issue is that companies report their summary annual statements once per year, so the information can become stale and out of date in between the annual reporting cycle. One approach to solve this problem is to use a trailing four quarters or trailing 12 months (TTM) analysis.



By the middle of the fourth quarter of 2021, the annual data for 2021 can be estimated by summarizing the last four quarters. In this case, assume that the company’s third-quarter 2021 results are available. An analyst would manually combine the quarterly data from the first three quarters of 2021 with the last quarter of 2020 to estimate the company’s earnings and revenue trends.



This analysis will overlap some of the data used in the last annual report, but it will still give some insight into how 2021 is likely to look by the end of the year. If the first three quarters of 2021 had been poor compared to the first three-quarters of 2020, the trailing-four-quarter analysis will show that.



Given that there are so many variables that have to be accounted for with each new quarter, using the best accounting software is a great way to help accountants save time and ensure all reporting is accurate.




What Are the 4 Fiscal Quarters?
A fiscal quarter is a three-month period in which a company reports its financial results. As its name suggests, there are four quarterly periods in a year, meaning a publicly-traded company would issue four quarterly reports per year. Companies and investors alike use fiscal quarters to keep track of their financial results and business developments over time. These quarters are often referred to as Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4.A company can choose how to divide a calendar year into these four quarters. Companies will often end a quarter at the end of March, June, September, and December. A company can elect to have its fiscal year-end anytime, thereby impacting how its quarters are divided.




Are Quarters Always Lined Up to the Calendar Year?
Quarters do not always line up with the calendar year. For instance, if a company chooses to have its fiscal year starting in February rather than January, then its first quarter would consist of February, March, and April. Companies sometimes choose to do this if they want their fiscal year to end in their own peak season.  Alternatively, since finishing the year often involves a lot of additional accounting work, some companies choose to end their fiscal year on a relatively calm month.




What Does Q4 2022 Mean?
There are two components to Q4 2022. The first part ("Q4") represents the quarter, while the second part ("2022") represents the year. In this example, the phrase Q4 2022 means the fourth quarter in 2022.Because this phrase includes both the quarter and the year, this phrase assumes that whatever is being analyzed has a fiscal year that is the same as a calendar year.




What Is the Fiscal Calendar?
A fiscal calendar is an arbitrary range of dates that defines a company's annual reporting cycle. Instead of simply using a standard calendar year that runs from January to December, a company can decide to use a different calendar cycle for reporting that better aligns with its operations, cyclicality, or seasonality.For example, a company may elect to have a fiscal year ending in June. Although the calendar year runs from January to December, the company's year-end income statement will run from July 1 to June 30.




What Are the Dates for Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4?
If a company decides to have a fiscal year different than a calendar year, the dates for each quarter may be different. However, if a company decides to report financial information on the same dates as a standard calendar cycle, the dates are:Quarter 1: Jan. 1 through March 30Quarter 2: April 1 through June 30Quarter 3: July 1 through Sept. 30Quarter 4: Oct. 1 through Dec. 31


   The Bottom Line  

Organizing financial planning and reporting into three-month quarterly units enables companies and those that analyze and govern them to track progress, set requirements, and make useful comparisons. Some critics feel undue focus on quarters promotes short-term thinking and planning and can make some information out of date. But generally, organizing information this way—and quarters don't have to follow the traditional calendar—increases the ability to organize information and recognize potential problems early.
What Is Quarter-To-Date (QTD)?  

Quarter-to-date (QTD) is a time interval that captures all relevant company activity that occurred between the beginning of the current quarter and the point at which the data was gathered later in the quarter. Quarter-to-date information is typically gathered in situations when the entire quarterly period has not yet ended, and it can allow management to see how the quarter is shaping up.





Key Takeaways

Quarter-to-date (QTD) is a time interval that captures a company's financial information from the start of a quarter to a point later in the quarter.The information for a quarter-to-date analysis is requested before a quarter has ended in order to gauge if a company is on track to meet quarterly results.Quarter-to-date information allows management to correct course if they are not on track to meet financial targets.A quarter-to-date analysis is most useful later in the quarter when there has been enough time to collect meaningful data.Needed changes based on quarter-to-date data, however, are more impactful earlier on in the quarter.Quarter-to-date information is primarily for internal use rather than external use.


   Understanding Quarter-To-Date (QTD)  

In financial parlance, a quarter refers to a three-month period during a fiscal year. Because there are 12 months in a year, there are four quarters: first quarter (Q1), second quarter (Q2), third quarter (Q3), and fourth quarter (Q4).



To determine how a company is performing during a given quarter, management may want to pull up data from the beginning of the quarter for a certain area to gauge how it has performed thus far.



For example, a company may have a target revenue of $5 million for the quarter. The end of the quarter is still one month away and management would like to see the quarter-to-date revenue to determine if they are on track to meet the $5 million target.



Depending on the result, the QTD information helps management make a decision to either stay on course, as the company is on track, or to adjust course because they are going to miss their target number.



QTD information allows management to investigate why a certain metric is not on target and to correct the issue. This is particularly useful when comparing the same periods to prior fiscal years or to other quarters.


   Quarter-To-Date Data Analysis  

Many companies spend a great deal of time preparing their quarter-to-date reports. All information must be clean and free of errors. Appropriately used, accurate, and timely QTD reporting can help a company take action on improving its performance.



A QTD analysis is most effective towards the end of the quarter, as there is more meaningful data available to assess the quality of results. That being said, needed changes are more impactful earlier in the quarter as there is more time to effect change. Management must find a balance between the two.



A QTD analysis is typically only for internal use rather than for external use because the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) does not require companies to report information before a quarter has ended. QTD information is a tool for management to determine the progress of the business.



As such, there are not many QTD comparisons between companies because management may pull information at different times within a quarter. That being said, final quarterly results are very much comparable between companies.



When comparing quarterly results, it's important to note that not all company's use the calendar year as their fiscal year. Ensuring that you are comparing the exact same time period between companies, and therefore avoiding seasonal factors, will allow for an apples to apples comparison.
What Are Quarterly Income Debt Securities (QUIDS)?  

Quarterly Income Debt Securities (QUIDS) are tradable debt instruments that pay a quarterly coupon.





Key Takeaways

Quarterly Income Debt Securities (QUIDS) are tradable debt instruments that pay a quarterly coupon. QUIDS were established by Goldman Sachs, which established a service mark for that name in 1993.QUIDS are sold in small denominations, but have a long lifespan before maturing.Companies typically issue QUIDS through a subsidiary, which allows QUIDS holders to move ahead of other creditors and shareholders in the event of bankruptcy.


   Understanding Quarterly Income Debt Securities (QUIDS)  

Quarterly Income Debt Securities (QUIDS) generally involve senior unsecured debt issued in small denominations with long maturities. Investors could expect a common issuance of QUIDS to have a $25 par value per share, maturing in 30 years, and callable after five years, for example.



Goldman Sachs originally established the product and registered a service mark for their name in 1996. However, their trademark was cancelled in 2003.



The debt issued via QUIDS involves a third-party issuer, usually created as a subsidiary of a parent company for the sole purpose of issuing debt and loaning the proceeds to the parent. Issuers use this structure to move shareholders of QUIDS ahead of other creditors in any bankruptcy or other liquidation proceeding, mitigating shareholder risk. Preferred stock and hybrid debt securities that mimic the behavior of preferred stock offer similar benefits. However, QUIDS coupons represent interest payments for tax purposes, and their shareholders typically take priority even over holders of preferred securities.






In the event of issuer bankruptcy, QUIDS holders are paid out before holders of other securities.


   Senior and Subordinated Debt  

Debt securities offer investors a tradable unit of a debt instrument that, aside from special cases like zero-coupon bonds, generally offers a fixed income stream via a periodic interest payment. The primary risk for holders of debt instruments takes the form of default, where the debt issuer fails to make contractually obligated payments of interest or principal. Investors generally balance risk against the amount of profit they expect to make from interest payments over the course of a debt issuance, requiring a faster or larger return to compensate for a riskier loan.



Companies may also attempt to lower their cost of borrowing by issuing different kinds of debt based upon a creditor’s priority in any liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings. Subordinated debt lies at the bottom of the priority list, meaning holders of subordinated debt get paid only after those who hold senior debt receive their payments.


   Similar Debt Instruments to QUIDS  

Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (QUIPS) and trust preferred securitieso (TruPS) offer investors similar benefits to QUIDS in the form of regular payment on a preferred security. QUIPS feature a structure similar to QUIDS, except that the subsidiary lending money to the parent issues its own preferred stock to investors. Companies that issue TruPS form a trust rather than a subsidiary corporation. Investors then receive preferred shares of the trust.



All three securities resemble one another superficially, but each type of security has subtle differences that may or may not match an investor’s expectations. Issuing companies may prefer the tax treatment afforded to one structure or another and decide which type of security to issue accordingly. Investors should always do their homework and be aware of where they sit in the hierarchy of potential creditors, as well as any potential issues with the issuer’s solvency.




How Much Is a Quid?
A quid is a colloquial term for the British pound sterling. As of July, 2023, the value of a quid is equal to approximately $1.30 USD.




What Is Quid Pro Quo?
Quid Pro Quo is a Latin phrase that literally means "something for something," suggesting an implied agreement to exchange one service or favor for another. This may be required in certain business contexts, since courts may strike down a contract that does not include equal considerations. Quid pro quo agreements are also common in politics, although they sometimes suggest shady or unethical business dealings.




What Is Quid Pro Quo Harassment?
Quid pro quo harassment is a form of workplace harassment where unethical requirements are placed as a condition of professional advancement. In cases where the requirements involve romantic or sexual behaviors, this is also a form of sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is illegal in the United States, Canada, and many other countries.


   The Bottom Line  

QUIDS, or Quarterly Income Debt Securities, are a type of debt instrument that pays interest on a quarterly basis. These debt securities are structured so that they are more senior than other holders of the same company's securities, meaning that in the event of bankruptcy, QUIDS holders will be paid out sooner than other creditors.
What Are Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (QUIPS)?  

Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (QUIPS) are hybrid, preferred-stock-like securities. They represent an interest in a limited partnership or company that exists solely for the purpose of issuing these preferred shares and then lending the proceeds of the sales to its parent company. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), they usually have a $25 par value and cumulative quarterly distributions.





Key Takeaways

Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (QUIPS) represent a relatively complicated structure that allows companies to raise money while receiving a tax benefit, and investors to receive dividends.QUIPS are shares in a limited partnership or company that's a subsidiary of another company—and exists solely to issue the shares.QUIPS proceeds are lent to the parent firm, which pays interest on them; this interest is repaid to the investors who bought the QUIPS.QUIPS benefit companies who are able to raise cash and take a tax deduction on the interest they pay, without increasing their debt ratio.The issuing entity isn't obligated to pay dividends, and Investors have little recourse if they don't. 


   Understanding Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (QUIPS)  

Created by Goldman, Sachs & Co. as a marketing tool, Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (QUIPS) are an example of hybrid securities (aka hybrids), combining the features of preferred stock and corporate bonds. Like bonds, they are essentially subordinated debt—they have maturity dates and a par value—but they look like preferred stock because they represent an ownership stake in a limited company/partnership, are listed on a stock exchange, and make payments in the form of quarterly dividends.


  How QUIPS Work  

QUIPs are issued by a special purpose, foreign or domestic limited liability company (LLC), or limited partnership (LP). Whatever its structure or nationality, this issuing entity is typically a wholly-owned subsidiary of a U.S. corporation. And it doesn't do anything, like make investments or finance businesses; it only exists—in fact, was created by the parent firm—to sell shares of itself to investors.



The LLC or LP raises funds, then takes the money it receives and loans it to its parent company. The parent receives the proceeds and dutifully pays interest on the borrowed funds back to the subsidiary, which then uses the money to pay quarterly dividends to QUIPS holders. Because the LLC or LP is a partnership, the full amount of the interest payments has to flow through to the QUIPS holders. But no corporate taxes are paid on them first, as they would be with regular stock dividends.






Hybrids can pay a higher rate of return than preferred stock because dividends are paid with pretax dollars and, therefore, they generate a sizable tax break for corporations.



In fact, the parent company gets to deduct the interest payments it makes on the borrowed QUIPS funds on its tax return—because technically, it's getting a loan from its subsidiary LLC or LP.


  Maturity Dates  

While QUIPs are listed and trade on the stock exchange, they have finite lifespans, like bonds. QUIPS typically have maturities of 30-50 years. However, in some cases, the issuers can extend the maturity cycle to a longer time period. For example, a well-known telecom provider initially issued QUIPS that began with a 30-year maturity, but then extend the maturity cycle to 49 years. Another QUIPS issuer abbreviated the maturity cycle from 30 years to a five-year non-call period. But like most hybrid securities, the average maturation period is 40 years.






Another form of hybrid securities is Monthly Income Preferred Stock or Securities (MIPS). MIPS are similar to QUIPS but, as the name implies, pay income every month.


   Special Considerations  

Via QUIPs, the parent company gets the cash it needs (plus a tax benefit), and investors get a steady dividend. Seems like a win-win all around.



There's a catch, however. The issuing LP or LLC can suspend or defer its dividends—even though they are actually interest payments—and not be considered in default, as it would be if it missed paying interest on a bond. If the issuer of QUIPS fails to make a promised periodic payment, investors have no power to force the issuer into bankruptcy.



But while this characteristic creates added risk for investors, the QUIPS structure benefits parent corporations, because it does not raise the parent company's debt levels, and therefore does not jeopardize its debt ratios.
What Is Quarterly Revenue Growth?  

Quarterly revenue growth is an increase in a company's sales in one quarter compared to sales of a different quarter.



The current quarter's sales figure can be compared on a year-over-year basis (e.g., 3Q sales of Year 1 compared with 3Q sales of Year 2) or sequentially (3Q sales of Year 1 compared with 4Q sales of Year 1). This gives analysts, investors, and additional stakeholders an idea of how much a company's sales are increasing over time.





Key Takeaways

Quarterly revenue growth measures the increase in a firm's sales from one quarter to another.Analysts can review the sales of successive quarterly periods or the quarter of one year compared to the same quarter of another year.For an accurate picture of growth, investors should look at the growth of several quarters and how consistent it is.Poor growth for one or a few quarters is not always indicative of a bad investment or poor performing company.


   Understanding Quarterly Revenue Growth  

When looking at a company's quarterly or annual financials, it is not enough to just look at the revenue for the current period. When investing in a company, an investor wants to see it grow or improve over time. Comparing a company's financials from one period to another gives a clear picture of its revenue growth rate and can help investors identify the catalyst for such growth.


   Example  

For example, say that XYZ Corp. generated $66.2 billion in revenue for the second three months of the year (April to June), and $58.7 billion for the first three months (January to March). Therefore, the company saw quarterly revenue growth of 12.78%.



Over time, if this rate continues, it will be an excellent investment. Zooming out and calculating quarterly growth rates for a multi-year period can provide even more insight than simply a six- or 12-month period.


   Limitations of Quarterly Revenue Growth  

As an investor, there are certain limitations with focusing too much on quarterly revenue growth. For example, the time between quarters is short. In any given multi-quarter period, the company’s results could change drastically with business cycles, economic shocks, management changes, or other internal disruptions to a company’s supply chain or operations.



While strong quarterly revenue growth is one metric for success, it’s important to look at several quarters and the consistency of growth over time. If growth is simply a two- or three-quarter phenomenon, it does not necessarily bode well for a longer-term investment.



On the flip side, investors should not be greatly concerned when a company sees poor quarterly revenue growth one or two times in a row. For example, companies that are seasonal, such as tourist companies, might have stagnant quarterly revenue growth at certain parts of the year and large spikes at other times. Again, it’s important to zoom out and look for a pattern in either direction—growth or loss—to determine the direction in which a company is moving and if it might be a good potential buy, sell, hold, or short.






Some investors have voiced their frustrations over the quarterly reporting cycle citing that it places too much emphasis on short-term results over long-term, sustainable progress.




Can Quarterly Revenue Growth Be Negative?
Yes, if a company generates less revenues quarter-over-quarter, it will be recorded as negative growth. This doesn't necessarily mean that the company is losing money, just that it's subsequent quarter saw fewer sales than the prior one.




Why Do Investors Care About Quarterly Revenue Growth?
Investors expect companies to keep growing over time, and so they look to quarterly revenue trends to make sure this is happening. In addition, revenue growth projections into the future are used by managers and investors to make investment decisions today.




What Is QoQ vs.YoY?
QoQ stands for quarter over quarter, and measures how some metric such as revenues has changed from one quarter to the next, so looking atYoY stands for year over year, and instead measures changes based on 12 months ago until the present.
What Is a Quartile?  

A quartile is a statistical term that describes a division of observations into four defined intervals based on the values of the data and how they compare to the entire set of observations.





Key Takeaways

Quartiles organize data into three points—a lower quartile, median, and upper quartile—to form four groups of the dataset.Along with the minimum and maximum values of the data set, the quartiles divide a set of observations into four sections, each representing 25% of the observations.Quartiles are used to calculate the interquartile range, which is a measure of variability around the median.


   Understanding Quartiles  

To understand the quartile, it is important to understand the median as a measure of central tendency. The median in statistics is the middle value of a set of numbers. It is the point at which exactly half of the data lies below and above the central value.



So, given a set of 13 numbers that are sorted (ascending or descending), the median would be the seventh number. The six numbers preceding this value are the lowest numbers in the data, and the six numbers after the median are the highest numbers in the dataset given. Because the median is not affected by extreme values or outliers in the distribution, it is sometimes preferred to the mean.



The median is a robust estimator of location but says nothing about how the data on either side of its value is spread or dispersed. That's where the quartile steps in. The quartile measures the spread of values above and below the mean by dividing the distribution into four groups.


   Calculating Quartiles  

Just like the median divides the data into half so that 50% of the measurement lies below the median and 50% lies above it, the quartile breaks down the data into quarters so that 25% of the measurements are less than the lower quartile, 50% are less than the median, and 75% are less than the upper quartile.



There are three quartile values—a lower quartile, median, and upper quartile—to divide the data set into four ranges, each containing 25% of the data points. The lower quartile, or first quartile, is denoted as Q1 and is the middle number that falls between the smallest value of the dataset and the median. The second quartile, Q2, is also the median. The upper or third quartile, denoted as Q3, is the central point that lies between the median and the highest number of the distribution.



Now, you can map out the four groups formed from the quartiles. The first group of values contains the smallest number up to Q1; the second group includes Q1 to the median; the third set is the median to Q3; the fourth category comprises Q3 to the highest data point of the entire set.



Each interval contains 25% of the total observations. Generally, the data is arranged from smallest to largest:



First interval: The set of data points between the minimum value and the first quartile.Second interval: The set of data points between the lower quartile and the median.Third interval: The set of data between the median and the upper quartile.Fourth interval: The set of data points between the upper quartile and the maximum value of the data set.


   Example of a Quartile  

Suppose the distribution of math scores in a class of 19 students in ascending order is:



59, 60, 65, 65, 68, 69, 70, 72, 75, 75, 76, 77, 81, 82, 84, 87, 90, 95, 98



First, mark down the median, Q2, which in this case is the 10th value: 75.



Q1 is the central point between the smallest score and the median. In this case, Q1 falls between the first and fifth score: 68. (Note that the median can also be included when calculating Q1 or Q3 for an odd set of values. If you were to include the median on either side of the middle point, then Q1 will be the middle value between the first and 10th score, which is the average of the fifth and sixth score—(fifth + sixth)/2 = (68 + 69)/2 = 68.5).



Q3 is the middle value between Q2 and the highest score: 84. (Or if you include the median, Q3 = (82 + 84)/2 = 83).



Now that you have your quartiles, you can interpret their numbers. A score of 68 (Q1) represents the first quartile and is the 25th percentile. Sixty-eight is the median of the lower half of the score set in the available data—that is, the median of the scores from 59 to 75.



Q1 tells us that 25% of the scores are less than 68 and 75% of the class scores are greater. Q2 (the median) is the 50th percentile and shows that 50% of the scores are less than 75, and 50% of the scores are above 75. Finally, Q3, the 75th percentile, reveals that 25% of the scores are greater and 75% are less than 84.


   Special Considerations  

If the data point for Q1 is farther away from the median than Q3 is from the median, then you can say that there is a greater dispersion among the smaller values of the dataset than among the larger values. The same logic applies if Q3 is farther away from Q2 than Q1 is from the median.



Alternatively, if there is an even number of data points, the median would be the average of the middle two numbers. In the example above, if you had 20 students instead of 19, the median of their scores will be the arithmetic average of the 10th and 11th numbers.



Quartiles are used to calculate the interquartile range, which is a measure of variability around the median. The interquartile range is simply calculated as the difference between the first and third quartile: Q3–Q1. In effect, it is the range of the middle half of the data that shows how spread out the data is.



For large datasets, Microsoft Excel has a QUARTILE function to calculate quartiles.




How Do You Find the Lower Quartile of a Data Set?
The lower quartile of a data set is a point where about 25% of observations are below that point, and 75% of data points are above that point. In other words, it is the middle value between the lowest data point and the median of the data set.




How Do You Find the Upper Quartile of a Data Set?
The upper quartile is the point where about 75% of observations are below that point and 25% of observations are higher than that point. In other words, it is the middle value between the median of the data set and the maximum value.




What Is the Interquartile Range of a Data Set?
The interquartile range is the middle 50% of measurements in a data set—in other words, the range of data between the upper quartile and the lower quartile. This is more statistically meaningful than using the full range of data because it omits possible outliers.


   The Bottom Line  

Quartiles are values that split lists of datasets into quarters, resulting in lower, middle, and upper quartiles. The purpose of quartiles is to give shape to a distribution, primarily indicating whether or not a distribution is skewed, which is used in determining the consistency in a fund's performance.
What Is a Quasi Contract?  

Quasi contract is another name for a contract implied in law, which acts as a remedy for a dispute between two parties that don't have a contract. A quasi contract is a legal obligation—not a traditional contract—which is decided by a judge for one party to compensate the other. Thus, a quasi contract is a retroactive judgment to correct a circumstance in which one party acquires something at the expense of the other.



These arrangements may be imposed when goods or services are accepted by a party even though they migt not have been requested. The acceptance then creates an expectation of payment for the providing party.





Key Takeaways

A quasi contract is a retroactive remedy between two parties who have no contract with one another.It is created by a judge to correct a circumstance in which one party acquires something at the expense of the other.The plaintiff must have furnished an asset, item, benefit, or service to another party such that the defendant should have known to pay for it.The defendant must have accepted, or acknowledged receipt of, the item but made no effort or offer to pay for it even when they know they should.


   Understanding Quasi Contracts  

Under common-law jurisdictions, quasi contracts originated in the Middle Ages under a form of action known in Latin as indebitatus assumpsit, which translates to being indebted or to have undertaken a debt.



This legal principle was the courts' way of making one party pay the other as if a contract or agreement already existed between them. So the defendant’s obligation to be bound by the an exchange is viewed to be implied by law. From its earliest uses, the quasi contract was typically imposed to enforce restitution obligations.



It would be handed down ordering the defendant to pay restitution to the plaintiff. The restitution, known in Latin as quantum meruit, or the amount deserved, is calculated according to the amount or extent to which the defendant was unjustly enriched.



This remedy is also referred to as a constructive contract as it is constructed by a judge when there is no existing contract between two parties. If there is an agreement or contract already in place, a judge will not create a quasi contract because there is no need to do so.






Implied-in-law contract is an alternate name for a quasi contract.


  Purpose  

Quasi contracts outline the obligation of one party to a second when the first receives a benefit or property from the second. A person might knowingly or unknowingly give something of value to another without an agreement being made. It is assumed that a reasonable person would pay for it, give it back, or otherwise compensate the giver upon receiving the item or service.



Quasi contracts are awarded as a remedy to a giver to keep them from being taken advantage of and keep others from being unjustly enriched.


  Legality  

Because the agreement is constructed in a court of law, it is legally enforceable, so neither party has to agree to it. The purpose of the quasi contract is to render a fair outcome in a situation where one party has an advantage over another. The defendant—the party who acquired the property—must pay restitution to the plaintiff—the wronged party—to cover the value of the item.


  Requirements  

Certain aspects must be in place for a judge to issue a quasi contract:



One party, the plaintiff, must have experienced a loss as a result of a transfer.
The defendant must have or acknowledged receipt of and retained the item of value, but made no effort or offer to pay for it.
The plaintiff must then demonstrate through burden of proof why the defendant receive an unjust enrichment.
The item or service cannot have been given as a gift.
The defendant must have been given a choice to accept or deny the benefit.


   Quasi Contract vs. Contract  







 Quasi Contract
 Contract




 Only Implied in Law
 Can Be Express or Implied


 Ordered by a Judge
 Initiated by Party Agreement


 No Contract Exists
 A Legal Contract Exists





  Quasi Contract  

Only Implied in Law: Implied in law means that a payment obligation is created by law, in this case, a judge who renders a remedy.
Ordered by a Judge: Quasi contracts are ordered by a judge because contracts implied in law are not covered under contract law.
No Contract Exists: Quasi contracts are not contracts, they are remedies for disputes between parties that are the result of one party receiving an unjust enrichment.


  Contract  

Can Be Express or Implied: There are generally two types of contracts, express and implied. An express contract is one where terms are laid out and both parties agree to abide by the terms. An implied contract is one where mutual assent is given for an exchange, but there are no explicit terms.Initiated by Party Agreement: The parties involved in an exchange agree to the exchange.A Legal Contract Exists: Express and implied contracts are legally recognizable and enforceable.


   Types of Quasi Contract  

The types of quasi contract are outlined in sections 68 thru 72 of the Contract Act of 1872, as follows:



Section 68: A person who is incapable of making contracts is provided with the supplies by a third party on behalf of the incapable person or anyone he is legally obligated to support. Third parties can recover the price of the supplier from the property of the unable person.Section 69: A person who makes a payment on behalf of another party is obligated to pay the money according to law. Therefore, the person who made the payment is entitled to reimbursement from the other party.Section 70: When a person does something lawfully for another person, or delivers something without intending to do the same gratuitously, the receiving party is obliged to compensate the former party.Section 71: A person who finds goods that belong to another party and takes ownership of them has the same responsibility as a bailee.Section 72: Someone who has been paid or delivered under coercion or mistakenly must repay or return the money.






Unjust enrichment is what happens when an individual benefits from a situation inappropriately, either because of luck or because of another person's bad fortune.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Quasi Contracts  

Advantages of using a quasi contract include the fact that these legal instruments are typically based on the unjust enrichment principle. This prevents one party from gaining an undue advantage over another. Thus, it is a safeguard for innocent victims of wrongful acts and a legal alternative to compensation for damages, ensuring that the one who provides services or goods gets compensated for the same.  In order to comply with quasi contracts, all parties involved are obliged to follow them, as they are created by court order. 



There are also some drawbacks or limitations. Those who received benefits negligently, unnecessarily, and by miscount will not be held liable. Although a person can be liable under a quasi contract, he cannot be charged more than the amount he has received under the contract. Thus, there is no provision available for the recovery of more amount than that which has been received by the plaintiff - if the plaintiff obtains only part of the services/goods that he contracted for originally, he cannot claim a compensation as the whole amount is not recovered. 



 If there's an express agreement between the parties, plaintiffs have to give up all profits. Though a quasi contract is a legal remedy that provides protection from unjust enrichment of the beneficiaries of the services or goods, a plaintiff can get relief only if he can prove that he has suffered losses due to the breach of the contractual obligations of the defendant. 




Quasi Contract Pros and Cons

Pros

Prevents one party from unfairly benefitting at the expense of another
Court order is legally binding



Cons

Not suitable in all cases
Amount cannot include additional damages







What Are Quasi Contracts?
A quasi contract is also known as an "implied contract," in which a defendant is ordered to pay restitution to the plaintiff, or a constructive contract, meaning a contract that is put into existence when no such contract between the parties exists.




What Is a Quasi Contract in Simple Words?
A quasi contract is an obligation between two parties created by a court order rather than an agreement between the parties to prevent enrichment.




What Is a Quasi Contract Example?
An example might be if Person A offers to pay Person B to help them move to a new apartment, and agrees to pay the $100 for the help. The agreement is verbal and not a formal contract. Person B commits to the job, turns down a different job, and shows up on the required day to help with the move. But when Person B shows up, Person A tells them that they are not needed after all and that the job is canceled. Person B files a civil suit to have the missing money paid and a quasi contract might be instituted, if the judge agrees that money is owed.


   The Bottom Line  

With a quasi contract, a defendant is required to behave as if there was a legal contract with the plaintiff. It is designed so that one party is not unjustly enriched at the expense of the other. Unjust enrichment is when someone benefits unfairly, either due to circumstance or the other party's misfortune. A quasi contract is rendered by a judge, as a settlement, after the fact, when a formal contract otherwise did not exist.
What Is a Quasi-Public Corporation?  

A quasi-public corporation is a company in the private sector that is supported by the government with a public mandate to provide a given service. Examples include telegraph and telephone companies, oil and gas, water, and electric light companies, and irrigation companies.



Quasi-public corporations may be established de novo, begin as government agencies that become privatized, or be the result of a large private company becoming partially nationalized. They are often also referred to as public service corporations.





Key Takeaways

A quasi-public corporation is a private company that is backed by a branch of government with a public mandate to provide a given service.In exchange for their services, they often receive some form of partial funding from the state.A quasi-public corporation must generally prioritize its government mandate over creating value and profit for shareholders.These types of corporations should not be viewed as risk-free investments because of their ties to the government.


   How Quasi-Public Corporations Work  

Like public-purpose corporations, such as public libraries and adult day centers, quasi-public corporations are created to benefit the public in some way. These private-operating companies are presented with a government-chartered mission and, in exchange for their services, usually receive some form of partial funding from the state.



Quasi-public corporations may comprise public companies of an industrial and commercial character, nationalized companies, and companies with majority public shareholding. Many consider quasi-public institutions to be political policy tools because they can, in some instances, operate with fewer restrictions and greater cost-effectiveness than regular government institutions.





Important

Contrary to popular opinion, employees of quasi-public corporations do not work for the government.


  Government Funding  

For those public-private corporations that receive some type of government funding, such subsidies consist of regular fund transfers intended to compensate for persistent losses, euphemistically referred to as negative operating surpluses.



Losses can be incurred by charging prices that are lower than average costs of production as a matter of deliberate government economic and social policy; by convention, these subsidies are treated as subsidies on products.


   Examples of a Quasi-Public Corporation  

One example of a quasi-public purpose corporation is Sallie Mae Corp., which was founded to advance student loan development. Another example is Fannie Mae, otherwise known as the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA).



Fannie Mae is regarded as a quasi-public corporation because it operates as an independent corporation that's not treated as any part of the government, while at the same time operating under a congressional charter that aims to increase the availability and affordability of homeownership.


   Special Considerations  

It is not uncommon to see the shares of this type of corporation trade on major stock exchanges, giving individual investors the opportunity to gain exposure to the company and any profit it generates.



While shares of this type of corporation are sold publicly, creating value and profit for shareholders comes second to carrying out its public purpose. The operations of a quasi-public corporation must usually, in some way, contribute to the comfort, convenience, or welfare of the general public.



Quasi-public corporations are often mistakenly assumed by the public, and investors, to be branches of the government. This creates a perception of safety, or risk-free investment in their equity and debt, as highlighted in the run-up to the financial crisis of 2008.



Debt securities issued by Fannie Mae, and its counterpart Freddie Mac, said on their face that they were not government-guaranteed, though many investors treated them as if they were. Public outcry and the pressure from investors when these entities faced bankruptcy helped lead the U.S. government to bail them out. In effect, the public perception that these quasi-public entities were guaranteed by the government overrode the explicit terms of the securities themselves.
What Is a Quasi-Reorganization?  

A quasi-reorganization is a relatively obscure provision under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which states that under certain circumstances, a firm may eliminate a deficit in its retained earnings account by restating assets, liabilities, and equity in a manner similar to a bankruptcy. A firm's stockholders must agree to allow the accounting change, which essentially resets the firm's books as though a new company had incurred the assets and liabilities of the old firm.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A quasi-reorganization allows a company to eliminate a deficit in its retained earnings by restating assets, liabilities, and equity in a manner representative of a bankruptcy.Quasi-reorganizations are allowed under the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).Shareholders of the firm must agree to a quasi-reorganization before it takes place.The main goal of a quasi-reorganization is to bring the retained earnings balance to zero by writing down overvalued assets to their fair value with a direct reduction in retained earnings.Liabilities are also valued at fair value with any resulting offsets going to the retained earnings deficit.Quasi-reorganizations are controversial since they are not a change of the economic reality, but rather a method to make books appear more favorable.


   Understanding a Quasi-Reorganization  

Although the idea of a quasi-reorganization has seen some renewed interest, the provision is still rarely applied in practice. The idea of a quasi-reorganization holds appeal for some as it is an idea of a "fresh start" and is more exciting to investors than slowly digging out from a large deficit of retained earnings.



Some also argue that quasi-reorganizations could be an effective method of more accurately resetting the accounting balances of a firm when a serious drop in asset value is not adequately reflected. A quasi-reorganization remains highly controversial, however, since it is not truly a change of economic reality, but rather a method to make books appear more favorable.



Quasi-reorganizations can carry risks to lenders or suppliers that extend credit to firms that have undergone a quasi-reorganization. Because a quasi-reorganization makes a company's balance sheet look stronger, this brings comfort to lenders in extending credit. If the lenders were aware of the actual financial situation of the company, they perhaps would not lend money or would lend at a higher rate to compensate for the actual risk taken. Quasi-reorganizations usually require disclosure in the financial statements, so lenders should make sure to look out for such items.﻿﻿


   Benefits of a Quasi-Reorganization  

Many new businesses operate at a loss for several years after inception. During this period, the sales team makes contacts, workers are trained, processes are improved on and streamlined, and brand recognition is cultivated. By the time the company turns its first profit, a significant retained earnings deficit may have developed. Additionally, a prolonged recession could turn a profitable company into a company with a retained earnings deficit.



It is often illegal or prohibited by debt covenants to pay a dividend from retained earnings while operating with a retained earnings deficit.﻿﻿ In this instance, the equity cost of capital can increase materially as investors demand more return for perceived risk. Here, a quasi-reorganization could make financial sense.



When a company undergoes a quasi-reorganization, it is allowed to continue paying dividends, avoids the costs and time associated with a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and possibly realizes tax advantages. As a quasi-reorganization does nothing to improve the actual operational aspect of a business, they are usually accompanied by other changes, such as consolidations, eliminating excess, and improving efficiency.﻿﻿


   Goals of a Quasi-Reorganization  

The main goal of a quasi-reorganization is to bring the retained earnings balance to zero. First, overvalued assets should be written down to fair value with a direct reduction in retained earnings. Although this increases the deficit momentarily, it will reduce future depreciation expenses. Liabilities are also restated to their fair values with any resulting offsets going to the retained earnings deficit.﻿﻿



Once assets have been reduced to fair value, either additional paid-in capital or the par value of common stock is reduced to balance out the elimination of the retained earnings deficit. Companies have some flexibility when deciding how to proceed with the quasi-reorganization; it is possible to reduce par value, increase additional paid-in capital, and zero out retained earnings at the same time.﻿﻿
What Is Questioned Document Investigation?  

A questioned document investigation is an in-depth look into a document that is being questioned in the case of fraud, forgery, etc. The investigation is usually initiated in the event that large sums of money, heirlooms, or other assets are being called into question by a third party. A questioned document investigation may also be called upon to discover altered documents, fabricated checks, anonymous letters, disputed wills, and many other disputed documents. A forensic analysis of the questioned document will typically involve a comprehensive analysis of the paper, ink, indentations, and tools used to produce the document.


   Understanding Questioned Document Investigation  

A questioned document investigation is used to ascertain the authenticity (or lack thereof) of a document or other item when it comes into question. The discipline of forensic document examination is sometimes referred to as "questioned documents analysis," and it is frequently associated with white-collar crimes such as accounting irregularities, check fraud, or securities fraud. It can also be used to analyze documents related to other types of crimes or misdeeds such as medical malpractice or even analyzing suicide notes for authenticity.



Examiners of questioned documents use an array of heuristic and technological tools and techniques to judge the authenticity of documents or to reveal if something has been altered or tampered with. To determine whether a document is genuine, an examiner may attempt to confirm who authored or created the document, determine the timeframe in which it was created, identify the materials used in its preparation, or uncover modifications to the original text - such as changes, additions, or deletions to the original text.



Within the scope of finance, questioned document investigations are initiated when the authenticity of a firm's financial records are cast in doubt. Sometimes, a firm may "cook the books" to hide losses or inflate perceived profits. Such accounting scandals can be revealed by the forensic analysis of financial statements and accounting documents. While securities today are represented digitally for the most part, in the past, the authenticity of physical stock certificates or bound coupons would be questioned, as con men and crooks would seek to counterfeit and sell them to unsuspecting investors. In the contemporary context, internal memos, email exchanges, invoices, or contracts can come under scrutiny and become the subject of a questioned document investigation.



If the investigation proves no wrong-doing, the case may be dropped, and the allegations of fraud or misconduct dropped. On the other hand, if the document is considered suspect, it may become crucial evidence in a larger criminal or civil case.
What Is Queuing Theory?  

Queuing theory is a branch of mathematics that studies how lines form, how they function, and why they malfunction. Queuing theory examines every component of waiting in line, including the arrival process, service process, number of servers, number of system places, and the number of customers—which might be people, data packets, cars, or anything else.



Real-life applications of queuing theory cover a wide range of businesses. Its findings may be used to provide faster customer service, increase traffic flow, improve order shipments from a warehouse, or design data networks and call centers.



As a branch of operations research, queuing theory can help inform business decisions on how to build more efficient and cost-effective workflow systems.





Key Takeaways

Queuing theory is the study of the movement of people, objects, or information through a line.Studying congestion and its causes in a process is used to help create more efficient and cost-effective services and systems.Often used as an operations management tool, queuing theory can address staffing, scheduling, and customer service shortfalls.Some queuing is acceptable in business. If there's never a queue, it's a sign of overcapacity.Queuing theory aims to achieve a balance that is efficient and affordable.


   How Queuing Theory Works  

Queues can occur whenever resources are limited. Some queuing is tolerable in any business since a total absence of a queue would suggest a costly overcapacity.



Queuing theory aims to design balanced systems that serve customers quickly and efficiently but do not cost too much to be sustainable.



At its most basic level, queuing theory involves an analysis of arrivals at a facility, such as a bank or a fast-food restaurant, and an analysis of the processes currently in place to serve them. The end result is a set of conclusions that aim to identify any flaws in the system and suggest how they can be ameliorated.



The origin of queuing theory can be traced to the early 1900s in a study of the Copenhagen telephone exchange by Agner Krarup Erlang, a Danish engineer, statistician, and mathematician. His work led to the Erlang theory of efficient networks and the field of telephone network analysis.



To this day, the fundamental unit of telecommunications traffic in voice systems is called an "erlang."


  The Parameters of a Queue  

In queuing theory, the process being studied is broken down into six distinct parameters. These include the arrival process, the service and departure process, the number of servers, the queuing discipline (such as first-in, first-out), the queue capacity, and the size of the client population.






Queues are not necessarily a negative aspect of a business, as their absence suggests overcapacity.


   Benefits of Queuing Theory  

Queuing theory as an operations management technique is commonly used to determine and streamline staffing needs, scheduling, and inventory in order to improve overall customer service. It is often used by Six Sigma practitioners to improve processes.


  The Psychology of Queuing  

The psychology of queuing is related to queuing theory. This is the component of queuing that deals with the natural irritation felt by many people who are forced to queue for service, whether they're waiting to check out at the supermarket or waiting for a website to load.



A call-back option while waiting to speak to a customer representative by phone is one example of a solution to customer impatience. A more old-fashioned example is the system used by many delis, which issue customer service numbers to allow people to track their progress to the front of the queue.






Supositorio offers free online queuing theory calculators with a choice of queuing models.


   Example of Queuing Theory  

A paper by Stanford Graduate School of Business Professor Lawrence Wein et al. used queuing theory to analyze a variety of possible emergency responses to an airborne bioterrorism attack in a public place. The model pointed to specific actions that could be taken to reduce the wait time for emergency care, thus decreasing the potential number of deaths.



Queuing theory is useful, if not quite so urgent, in guiding the logistics of many businesses. The operations department for a delivery company, for example, is likely to use queuing theory to help it smooth out the kinks in its systems for moving packages from a warehouse to a customer. In this case, the "line" being studied is comprised of boxes of goods waiting to be delivered to customers.



By applying queuing theory, a business can develop more efficient systems, processes, pricing mechanisms, staffing solutions, and arrival management strategies to reduce customer wait times and increase the number of customers that can be served.




How Do You Use Queuing Theory?
Queuing theory is used to identify and correct points of congestion in a process. The queue may consist of people, things, or information. In any case, they are being forced to wait for service. That is inefficient, bad for business, and annoying (when the queue consists of people).Queuing theory is used to analyze the existing process and map out alternatives with a better result.




Who Invented Queuing Theory?
Agner Krarup Erlang, a Danish mathematician, statistician, and engineer, is credited with creating not only queuing theory but the entire field of telephone traffic engineering.In the early 20th century, Erlang was head of a technical laboratory at the Copenhagen Telephone Co. His extensive studies of wait time in automated telephone services and his proposals for more efficient networks were widely adopted by telephone companies.




What Are the Basic Elements of Queuing Theory?
A study of a line using queuing theory would break it down into six elements: the arrival process, the service and departure process, the number of servers available, the queuing discipline (such as first-in, first-out), the queue capacity, and the numbers being served. Creating a model of the entire process from start to finish allows the cause or causes of congestion to be identified and addressed.


   The Bottom Line  

Queuing theory is a mathematic discipline that looks at lines—specifically, how they form, how they work, and why they sometimes don't work. Queuing is an unavoidable facet of doing business, with customers apt to contend with physical or digital lines, depending on what they are trying to purchase. Queuing has an impact on manufacturing, inventory, shipping, and distribution. As a result, queuing impacts profits and revenues. Findings from queuing theory can be used to improve customer service, traffic flow, and order shipments, among other aspects of running a business.
What Are Quick Assets?  

Quick assets refer to assets owned by a company with a commercial or exchange value that can easily be converted into cash or that are already in a cash form. Quick assets are therefore considered to be the most highly liquid assets held by a company. They include cash and equivalents, marketable securities, and accounts receivable. Companies use quick assets to calculate certain financial ratios that are used in decision making, primarily the quick ratio.





Key Takeaways

Current and quick assets are two categories from the balance sheet that analysts use to examine a company’s liquidity.Quick assets are equal to the summation of a company’s cash and equivalents, marketable securities, and accounts receivable which are all assets that represent or can be easily converted to cash.Quick assets are considered to be a more conservative measure of a company's liquidity than current assets since it excludes inventories.The quick ratio is used to analyze a company's immediate ability to pay its current liabilities without the need to sell its inventory or use financing.


   The Basics of Quick Assets  

Unlike other types of assets, quick assets represent economic resources that can be turned into cash in a relatively short period of time without a significant loss of value. Cash and cash equivalents are the most liquid current asset items included in quick assets, while marketable securities and accounts receivable are also considered to be quick assets. Quick assets exclude inventories, because it may take more time for a company to convert them into cash.



Companies typically keep some portion of their quick assets in the form of cash and marketable securities as a buffer to meet their immediate operating, investing, or financing needs. A company that has a low cash balance in its quick assets may satisfy its need for liquidity by tapping into its available lines of credit.



Depending on the nature of a business and the industry in which it operates, a substantial portion of quick assets may be tied to accounts receivable. For example, companies that sell products and services to corporate clients may have large accounts receivable balances, while retail companies that sell products to individual consumers may have negligible accounts receivable on their balance sheets.


   Example of Quick Assets: The Quick Ratio  

Analysts most often use quick assets to assess a company's ability to satisfy its immediate bills and obligations that are due within a one-year period. The total amount of quick assets is used in the quick ratio, sometimes referred to as the acid test, which is a financial ratio that divides the sum of a company's cash and equivalents, marketable securities, and accounts receivable by its current liabilities. This ratio allows investment professionals to determine whether a company can meet its financial obligations if its revenues or cash collections happen to slow down.



The formula for the quick ratio is:



﻿















Quick Ratio


=




C & E


+


MS


+


AR




Current Liabilities


















where:
















C & E


=


cash & equivalents
















MS


=


marketable securities
















AR


=


accounts receivable








\begin{aligned} &\text{Quick Ratio} = \frac { \text{C \& E} + \text{MS} + \text{AR} }{ \text{Current Liabilities} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{C \& E} = \text{cash \& equivalents} \\ &\text{MS} = \text{marketable securities} \\ &\text{AR} = \text{accounts receivable} \\ \end{aligned}


​Quick Ratio=Current LiabilitiesC & E+MS+AR​where:C & E=cash & equivalentsMS=marketable securitiesAR=accounts receivable​﻿



or



﻿















Quick Ratio


=




CA


−


Inventory


−


PE




Current Liabilities


















where:
















CA


=


current assets
















PE


=


prepaid expenses








\begin{aligned} &\text{Quick Ratio} = \frac { \text{CA} - \text{Inventory} - \text{PE} }{ \text{Current Liabilities} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{CA} = \text{current assets} \\ &\text{PE} = \text{prepaid expenses} \\ \end{aligned}


​Quick Ratio=Current LiabilitiesCA−Inventory−PE​where:CA=current assetsPE=prepaid expenses​﻿


   Quick Assets Versus Current Assets  

Quick assets offer analysts a more conservative view of a company’s liquidity or ability to meet its short-term liabilities with its short-term assets because it doesn't include harder to sell inventory and other current assets that can be difficult to liquidate. By excluding inventory, and other less liquid assets, the quick assets focus on the company’s most liquid assets.



The quick ratio can also be contrasted against the current ratio, which is equal to a company's total current assets, including its inventories, divided by its current liabilities. The quick ratio represents a more stringent test for the liquidity of a company in comparison to the current ratio.






The word quick originates with the Old English cwic, which meant "alive" or "alert."
What Is the Quick Liquidity Ratio?  

The quick liquidity ratio is the total amount of a company’s quick assets divided by the sum of its net liabilities, and for insurance companies includes reinsurance liabilities. In other words, it shows how much easily-convertible-to-money assets, such as cash, short-term investments, equities, and corporate and government bonds nearing maturity, an insurance company can tap into on short notice to meet its financial obligations.



The quick liquidity ratio is also commonly referred to as the acid-test ratio or the quick ratio.





Key Takeaways

The quick liquidity ratio is the total amount of a company’s quick assets divided by the sum of its net liabilities and reinsurance liabilities.This calculation is one of the most rigorous ways to determine a debtor's capacity to pay off current debt obligations without needing to raise external capital.The quick liquidity ratio is an important measure of an insurance company’s ability to cover its liabilities with relatively liquid assets.If an insurer has a high quick liquidity ratio, it’s in a better position to make payments than an insurer with a lower ratio.


   How the Quick Liquidity Ratio Works  

Investors have at their disposal several different liquidity ratios to assess a company’s ability to quickly and cheaply convert whatever assets it owns into cash. The quick liquidity ratio, which generally accounts only for resources that can be transformed into cash without losing value within 90 days, is widely considered to be one of the most stringent ways to determine a debtor's capacity to pay off current debt obligations without needing to raise external capital.



Quick liquidity ratios are usually expressed as a percentage. The higher the percentage, the more liquid and capable of paying off any money owed the company is.






A company with a low quick liquidity ratio that finds itself with a sudden increase in liabilities may have to sell off long-term assets or borrow money.


   Example of the Quick Liquidity Ratio  

The quick liquidity ratio is an important measure of an insurance company’s ability to cover its liabilities with relatively liquid assets.



Suppose an insurer covers a lot of property in Florida and then a hurricane strikes in the region. That insurer is now going to have to find more money than it would normally anticipate to pay claims. If such an insurer has a high quick liquidity ratio, it will be in a better position to make payments than an insurer with a lower ratio.


   Quick Liquidity Ratio vs. Current Ratio  

Like the quick liquidity ratio, the current ratio also measures a company's short-term liquidity, or ability to generate enough cash to pay off all debts should they become due at once. The quick liquidity ratio is deemed to be more conservative than the current ratio, though, because it takes fewer assets into consideration.



The quick liquidity ratio further refines the current ratio by measuring the level of the most liquid current assets available to cover current liabilities. It doesn’t include inventory and other assets such as prepaid expenses that are generally perceived as more difficult and slower to turn into cash.



That ultimately means quick liquidity ratios and current ratios can differ significantly. For instance, a company stocking lots of inventory could have a high current ratio and low quick liquidity ratio. Investors concerned about this company’s short-term liabilities might opt to dismiss the current ratio and focus more on the quick liquidity ratio, mindful that its inventory, though valuable, may be difficult to offload and turn into cash swiftly enough to settle a sudden hike in obligations.


   Special Considerations  

A company that offers a mixture of different types of insurance policies is best compared to peers that offer a similar mixture, as opposed to comparing that company to insurers who only offer a specific and smaller range of products.



When evaluating a potential investment in an insurance company an investor should evaluate the types of plans that it offers, as well as how the company intends on covering its liabilities in the case of an emergency. The range of percentages considered “good” depend on the type of policies that an insurance company is providing. Property insurers are likely to have quick liquidity ratios greater than 30 percent, while liability insurers may have ratios above 20 percent.



In addition to evaluating the quick liquidity ratio, investors should look at a company’s current liquidity ratio, which shows how well it can cover liabilities with invested assets, and overall liquidity ratio, which shows how a company can cover liabilities with total assets. 



Investors can also review operating cash flows (OCF) and net cash flows to determine how the company can meet its short-term liquidity needs from cash.
What Is the Quick Ratio?  

The quick ratio is an indicator of a company’s short-term liquidity position and measures a company’s ability to meet its short-term obligations with its most liquid assets.



Since it indicates the company’s ability to instantly use its near-cash assets (assets that can be converted quickly to cash) to pay down its current liabilities, it is also called the acid test ratio. An "acid test" is a slang term for a quick test designed to produce instant results.





Key Takeaways

The quick ratio measures a company's capacity to pay its current liabilities without needing to sell its inventory or obtain additional financing.The quick ratio is considered a more conservative measure than the current ratio, which includes all current assets as coverage for current liabilities.The quick ratio is calculated by dividing a company's most liquid assets like cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and accounts receivables by total current liabilities.Specific current assets such as prepaids and inventory are excluded as those may not be as easily convertible to cash or may require substantial discounts to liquidate.The higher the ratio result, the better a company's liquidity and financial health; the lower the ratio, the more likely the company will struggle with paying debts.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding the Quick Ratio  

The quick ratio measures the dollar amount of liquid assets available against the dollar amount of current liabilities of a company. Liquid assets are those current assets that can be quickly converted into cash with minimal impact on the price received in the open market, while current liabilities are a company's debts or obligations that are due to be paid to creditors within one year.



A result of 1 is considered to be the normal quick ratio. It indicates that the company is fully equipped with exactly enough assets to be instantly liquidated to pay off its current liabilities. A company that has a quick ratio of less than 1 may not be able to fully pay off its current liabilities in the short term, while a company having a quick ratio higher than 1 can instantly get rid of its current liabilities. For instance, a quick ratio of 1.5 indicates that a company has $1.50 of liquid assets available to cover each $1 of its current liabilities.



While such numbers-based ratios offer insight into the viability and certain aspects of a business, they may not provide a complete picture of the overall health of the business. It is important to look at other associated measures to assess the true picture of a company's financial health.






The higher the quick ratio, the better a company's liquidity and financial health, but it important to look at other related measures to assess the whole picture of a company's financial health.


   Quick Ratio Formula  

There's a few different ways to calculate the quick ratio. The most common approach is to add the most liquid assets and divide the total by current liabilities:



















Quick


 


Ratio



=




“Quick


 


Assets”




Current


 


Liabilities









\begin{aligned}&\textbf{Quick Ratio}\mathbf{=}\frac{\textbf{``Quick Assets''}}{\textbf{Current Liabilities}}\end{aligned}


​Quick Ratio=Current Liabilities“Quick Assets”​​



Quick assets are defined as the most liquid current assets that can easily be exchanged for cash. For most companies, quick assets are limited to just a few types of assets:



















Quick


 


Assets



=


Cash


+


CE


+


MS


+


NAR
















where:
















CE


=


Cash equivalents
















MS


=


Marketable securities
















NAR


=


Net accounts receivable







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{Quick Assets}\mathbf{=}\textbf{Cash}\mathbf{+}\textbf{CE}\mathbf{+}\textbf{MS}\mathbf{+}\textbf{NAR}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{CE}=\text{Cash equivalents}\\&\text{MS}=\text{Marketable securities}\\&\text{NAR}=\text{Net accounts receivable}\end{aligned}


​Quick Assets=Cash+CE+MS+NARwhere:CE=Cash equivalentsMS=Marketable securitiesNAR=Net accounts receivable​



Depending on what type of current assets a company has on its balance sheet, a company may also calculate quick assets by deducting illiquid current assets from its balance sheet. For example, consider that inventory and prepaid expenses may not be easily or quickly converted to cash, a company may calculate quick assets as follows:



















Quick


 


Assets



=


TCA


−


Inventory


−


PE
















where:
















TCA


=


Total current assets
















PE


=


Prepaid expenses







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{Quick Assets}\mathbf{=}\textbf{TCA}\mathbf{-}\textbf{Inventory}\mathbf{-}\textbf{PE}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\textbf{TCA}=\text{Total current assets}\\&\textbf{PE}=\text{Prepaid expenses}\end{aligned}


​Quick Assets=TCA−Inventory−PEwhere:TCA=Total current assetsPE=Prepaid expenses​



Regardless of which method is used to calculate quick assets, the calculation for current liabilities is the same as all current liabilities are included in the formula.


   Components of the Quick Ratio  
  Cash  

Cash is among the more straight-forward pieces of the quick ratio. A company should strive to reconcile their cash balance to monthly bank statements received from their financial institutions. This cash component may include cash from foreign countries translated to a single denomination.


  Cash Equivalents  

Cash equivalents are often an extension of cash as this account often houses investments with very low risk and high liquidity. Cash equivalents often include but may not necessarily be limited to Treasury bills, certificates of deposits (being mindful of options/fees to break the CD), bankers' acceptances, corporate commercial paper, or other money market instruments.



In publication by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), digital assets such as cryptocurrency or digital tokens may not be reported as cash or cash equivalents.


  Marketable Securities  

Marketable securities, are usually free from such time-bound dependencies. However, to maintain precision in the calculation, one should consider only the amount to be actually received in 90 days or less under normal terms. Early liquidation or premature withdrawal of assets like interest-bearing securities may lead to penalties or discounted book value.


  Net Accounts Receivable  

Whether accounts receivable is a source of quick, ready cash remains a debatable topic, and depends on the credit terms that the company extends to its customers. A company that needs advance payments or allows only 30 days to the customers for payment will be in a better liquidity position than a company that gives 90 days.



On the other hand, a company could negotiate rapid receipt of payments from its customers and secure longer terms of payment from its suppliers, which would keep liabilities on the books longer. By converting accounts receivable to cash faster, it may have a healthier quick ratio and be fully equipped to pay off its current liabilities.



The total accounts receivable balance should be reduced by the estimated amount of uncollectible receivables. As the quick ratio only wants to reflect the cash that could be on hand, the formula should not include any receivables a company does not expect to receive.


  Current Liabilities  

The quick ratio pulls all current liabilities from a company's balance sheet as it does not attempt to distinguish between when payments may be due. The quick ratio assumes that all current liabilities have a near-term due date. Total current liabilities are often calculated as the sum of various accounts including accounts payable, wages payable, current portions of long-term debt, and taxes payable.






Because prepaid expenses may not be refundable and inventory may be difficult to quickly convert to cash without severe product discounts, both are excluded from the asset portion of the quick ratio.


   Quick Ratio vs. Current Ratio  

The quick ratio is more conservative than the current ratio because it excludes inventory and other current assets, which are generally more difficult to turn into cash. The quick ratio considers only assets that can be converted to cash in a short period of time. The current ratio, on the other hand, considers inventory and prepaid expense assets. In most companies, inventory takes time to liquidate, although a few rare companies can turn their inventory fast enough to consider it a quick asset. Prepaid expenses, though an asset, cannot be used to pay for current liabilities, so they're omitted from the quick ratio.


   Advantages and Limitations of the Quick Ratio  

The quick ratio has the advantage of being a more conservative estimate of how liquid a company is. Compared to other calculations that include potentially illiquid assets, the quick ratio is often a better true indicator of short-term cash capabilities.



The quick ratio is also fairly easy and straightforward to calculate. It's relatively easy to understand, especially when comparing a company's liquidity against a target calculation such as 1.0. The quick ratio can be used to analyze a single company over a period of time or can be used to compare similar companies.



There are several downsides to the quick ratio. The financial metric does not give any indication about a company's future cash flow activity. Though a company may be sitting on $1 million today, the company may not be selling a profitable good and may struggle to maintain its cash balance in the future. There are also considerations to make regarding the true liquidity of accounts receivable as well as marketable securities in some situations.




Quick Ratio

Pros

Conservative approach on estimating a company's liquidity
Relatively straightforward to calculate
All components are reported on a company's balance sheet
Can be used to compare companies across time periods or sectors



Cons

Does not consider future cash flow capabilities of the company
Does not consider long-term liabilities (some of which may be due as early as 12 months from now)
May overstate the true collectability of accounts receivable
May overstate the true liquidity of marketable securities during economic downturns





   Example of the Quick Ratio  

Publicly traded companies generally report the quick ratio figure under the “Liquidity/Financial Health” heading in the “Key Ratios” section of their quarterly reports.



Below is the calculation of the quick ratio based on the figures that appear on the balance sheets of two leading competitors operating in the personal care industrial sector, P&G and J&J, for the fiscal year ending in 2021.










   (in $millions)
  Procter & Gamble
  Johnson & Johnson




  Quick Assets   (A)
  $15,013
  $46,891


  Current Liabilities   (B)
  $33,132
  $45,226


  Quick Ratio   (A/B)
  0.45
  1.04






With a quick ratio of over 1.0, Johnson & Johnson appears to be in a decent position to cover its current liabilities as its liquid assets are greater than the total of its short-term debt obligations. Procter & Gamble, on the other hand, may not be able to pay off its current obligations using only quick assets as its quick ratio is well below 1, at 0.45. This shows that, disregarding profitability or income, Johnson & Johnson appears to be in better short-term financial health in respects to being able to meet its short-term debt requirements.




Why Is It Called the Quick Ratio?
The quick ratio looks at only the most liquid assets that a company has available to service short-term debts and obligations. Liquid assets are those that can quickly and easily be converted into cash in order to pay those bills.




Why Is the Quick Ratio Important?
The quick ratio communicates how well a company will be able to pay its short-term debts using only the most liquid of assets. The ratio is important because it signals to internal management and external investors whether the company will run out of cash. The quick ratio also holds more value than other liquidity ratios such as the current ratio because it has the most conservative approach on reflecting how a company can raise cash.




Is a Higher Quick Ratio Better?
In general, a higher quick ratio is better. This is because the formula's numerator (the most liquid current assets) will be higher than the formula's denominator (the company's current liabilities). A higher quick ratio signals that a company can be more liquid and generate cash quickly in case of emergency.Keep in mind that a very high quick ratio may not be better. For example, a company may be sitting on a very large cash balance. This capital could be used to generate company growth or invest in new markets. There is often a fine line between balancing short-term cash needs and spending capital for long-term potential.




How Do the Quick and Current Ratios Differ?
The quick ratio only looks at the most liquid assets on a firm's balance sheet, and so gives the most immediate picture of liquidity available if needed in a pinch, making it the most conservative measure of liquidity. The current ratio also includes less liquid assets such as inventories and other current assets such as prepaid expenses.




What Happens If the Quick Ratio Indicates a Firm Is Not Liquid?
In this case, a liquidity crisis can arise even at healthy companies—if circumstances arise that make it difficult to meet short-term obligations such as repaying their loans and paying their employees or suppliers. One example of a far-reaching liquidity crisis from recent history is the global credit crunch of 2007-08, where many companies found themselves unable to secure short-term financing to pay their immediate obligations. If new financing cannot be found, the company may be forced to liquidate assets in a fire sale or seek bankruptcy protection.


   The Bottom Line  

A company can't exist without cashflow and the ability to pay its bills as they come due. By measuring its quick ratio, a company can better understand what resources they have in the very short-term in case they need to liquidate current assets. Though other liquidity ratios measure a company's ability to be solvent in the short-term, the quick ratio is among the most aggressive in deciding short-term liquidity capabilities.
What Is a Quick Response (QR) Code?  

A quick response (QR) code is a type of barcode that can be read easily by a digital device and which stores information as a series of pixels in a square-shaped grid. QR codes are frequently used to track information about products in a supply chain and often used in marketing and advertising campaigns.



QR codes are considered an advancement from older, uni-dimensional barcodes, and were approved as an international standard in 2000 by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Quick response (QR) codes are square-shaped matrices of dark or light pixels used to encode and quickly retrieve data using computer devices.An enhancement on traditional barcodes, QR codes can store vastly more information and are used in a variety of applications from supply chain management to cryptocurrency wallet addresses.Several versions and variations of QR codes now exist that are customized to different purposes, or which can store greater amounts of data.


   Understanding Quick Response (QR) Codes  

QR codes were developed in the 1990s as a way to provide more information than a standard barcode. They were invented by Denso Wave, a subsidiary of Toyota, as a way to track automobiles throughout the manufacturing process.﻿﻿ Unlike barcodes, which require a beam of light to bounce off of the parallel lines, QR codes can be digitally scanned by devices such as mobile phones.



QR codes consist of black squares arranged in a grid (matrix) on a white background and are read by specialized software that is able to extract data from the patterns that are present in the matrix. These codes are capable of containing more information than traditional barcodes, and primarily handle four modes of data: alphanumeric, numeric, binary, and Kanji.



Despite the increased data capacity, QR codes have not been as popular with consumers as expected. Rather than being created by consumers to share information, they are most commonly associated with advertisers and marketing campaigns.



QR codes have become more widespread in facilitating digital payments and in cryptocurrency systems such as displaying one's Bitcoin address. QR codes are also increasingly used to transmit web addresses to mobile phones. For instance, the QR code shown below encodes the URL for this very entry on Investopedia. Use your phone to give it a try.















QR code encoding this web page's URL.
 Investopedia


   Quick Response (QR) Codes vs. Barcodes  

The amount of information that can be conveyed about a product or service was traditionally limited by the amount of space on the product’s packaging or the advertisement touting its benefits. If a consumer wanted more information about the product—availability, price, attributes—they would have to find a salesperson or request additional documentation.



Barcodes are commonly found on the back of product packages and convey data using a combination of various widths of parallel lines, which can be read by machines that have an optical scanner.



The barcode revolutionized the way that companies managed inventories and pricing and was first put to practical use in the 1960s by U.S. railroads to track equipment and containers. Traditional, two-dimensional barcodes came into common use in U.S. retail stores in 1974.﻿﻿ Barcodes are now found on everything from employee ID badges and hospital bracelets to shipping containers.


   Types of Quick Response (QR) Codes  

There are a number of QR code types that may be used for different items. They include:



Micro QR Code: A smaller version of a traditional QR code that is used when space is limited. Micro QR codes can vary in size but the smallest is 11 x 11 modules, encoding up to 21 alphanumeric characters.Model 1 QR Codes: Model 1 is the prototype of Model 2 and Micro QR. One to 14 versions are registered to the Automatic Identification Manufacturers International (AIMI) standard. Its maximum data capacity is 468 bytes, which can encode up to 707 alphanumeric characters.Model 2 QR Codes: Model 2 has an alignment pattern for better position adjustment and contains greater data density than Model 1. One to 40 versions are registered to the AIMI standard, with version 40 capable of storing up to 4,296 alphanumeric characters.IQR Code: Can be created in squares or rectangles in cases where space or shape is an issue. It can be in any one of 61 formats.SQRC: Features a restricted reading function to contain private information.Frame QR: Customizable frame that can contain larger data in formats such as graphics, illustrations, or photos.
What Is a Quick-Rinse Bankruptcy?  

A quick-rinse bankruptcy is a bankruptcy proceeding that is structured to move through legal proceedings faster than the average bankruptcy. All parties involved negotiate terms before a company files for bankruptcy.



The term "quick-rinse bankruptcy" first emerged during the credit crisis that started in 2008 and was used to describe the planned bankruptcies of U.S. automotive giants Chrysler and General Motors.





Key Takeaways

The aim of a quick-rinse bankruptcy is to move through legal proceedings faster than the average bankruptcy.All parties involved negotiate terms prior to the bankruptcy proceedings.The name quick-rinse bankruptcy was coined in 2008 during the credit crisis and described the bankruptcies of Chrysler and General Motors.Quick-rank bankruptcies are important because companies in trouble have a limited amount of time before losing customers, working capital, financing sources, suppliers, and vendors.A quick-rinse bankruptcy differs from a prepackaged bankruptcy in that it comes with the promise of taxpayer financing.


   How a Quick-Rinse Bankruptcy Works  

In order for quick-rinse bankruptcies to be effective, involved parties must negotiate terms prior to the proceedings. These negotiations take place between the government, creditors, unions, shareholders, and other parties in order to prevent filings by these parties in court that would otherwise slow down the process.



A quick-rinse bankruptcy, also known as a controlled bankruptcy, involves taxpayer financing. Such pre-negotiated bankruptcies arose during the credit crisis of 2008 due to the perceived impact that the Chrysler and General Motors failures would have on the economy. It was argued that drawn-out bankruptcy proceedings would result in massive layoffs and a loss of customers that would deepen the recession and further stunt economic growth.






After the financial crisis, reforms focused on having companies use bail-ins as opposed to bail-outs, as to not use taxpayer money.



In bankruptcies such as those of General Motors and Chrysler, where preserving the value of the companies and giving them the best chance of reorganization and survival is of paramount importance, speed is of the essence. The first question among negotiators and administrators is how fast or when an agreement should be reached. A company on the brink only has a limited amount of time before it begins to lose significant portions of its customers, working capital, financing sources, suppliers, and vendors.


   Benefits of a Quick-Rinse Bankruptcy  

The primary benefit of a quick-rinse bankruptcy is speed. Chapter 11 bankruptcies are time-consuming, take up resources, primarily money, and can drag on for months or years, impeding the businesses involved.



A quick-rinse bankruptcy moves the process along quickly, which is particularly important for creditors so that they can continue on with their own businesses by taking stock of their financial situation after dealing with a bankrupted entity.


   Quick-Rinse Bankruptcy vs. Prepackaged Bankruptcy  

A quick-rinse bankruptcy has roughly the same purpose as a prepackaged bankruptcy; to avoid the slow, complicated, and expensive drag of court proceedings. The two types differ in that a quick-rinse bankruptcy comes with the promise of taxpayer financing, such as the government bailouts of General Motors and Chrysler in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.





39

The number of days it took GM to emerge from its quick-rinse bankruptcy.



With a prepackaged bankruptcy, a company in distress will tell its creditors that it wants to negotiate bankruptcy terms before it files for court protection. This gives creditors the opportunity to work with a company to come to an agreement on repayment terms before a Chapter 11 filing is made.



The New York Times described controlled (or quick-rinse) bankruptcies as existing "somewhere between a prepackaged bankruptcy and court chaos."


   Example of a Quick-Rinse Bankruptcy  

Company ABC has not been able to sell many of its goods for the past year. The company has generated no profits and has had to borrow money from a few creditors to stay afloat. The company has reached a point where it is in debt, is not able to borrow more, and sees no way out of its current situation. The management of the company decides to declare bankruptcy.



Before declaring bankruptcy, however, ABC negotiates terms with its creditors. It owes $5 million to Bank One, $2 million to Bank Two, and $4 million to Bank Three. After assessing the value of all of its assets, which includes vehicles, machinery, and a small warehouse, ABC determines it can pay Bank One $3 million of the $5 million, Bank Two $500,000 of the $2 million, and Bank Three, $1 million of the $4 million.



The banks are not happy about this but rather than receive nothing at all, they agree to the terms. When Company ABC declares bankruptcy, the court and proceedings move quickly without any hold-ups as all parties have already agreed to the terms of the bankruptcy.




How Long Do Corporate Bankruptcies Usually Take?
Every bankruptcy situation is unique and, therefore, will vary in the length of time it takes from filing to closing. In general, if all parties are prepared, a bankruptcy proceeding lasts between four to six months.




Can a Company Survive Chapter 11?
Yes, a company can survive a Chapter 11 bankruptcy and many companies have. Not only have they survived but many have gone on to become stronger companies. The purpose of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy is for a company to reorganize itself so it is on a better financial footing. The goal is not to close down and liquidate assets.




Can You File Chapter 7 Twice?
Yes, you can file a Chapter 7 bankruptcy twice. If you filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy for the first time and received a discharge, you have to wait eight years before filing a second time. It is important to receive a discharge from your first bankruptcy otherwise you may be held liable for all debts in your second bankruptcy.




Do Stocks Go Up After Bankruptcies?
Stocks may or may not go up after a bankruptcy. If it is a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, a company's stock will fall upon the news and see little gains during reorganization; however, it is possible that after some time, once the company has reorganized and found new footing, it may perform better, which will see the value of its shares go up.
What Is a Quid?  

"Quid" is a slang expression for the British pound sterling, or the British pound (GBP), the currency of the United Kingdom (U.K.). A quid equals 100 pence, and the nickname may stem from the Latin phrase “quid pro quo,” which translates as "something for something."





Key Takeaways

"Quid" is a slang expression for the British pound sterling, or the British pound (GBP), the currency of the United Kingdom (U.K.).A quid equals 100 pence.The use of the quid began in the late 17th century.The modern-day pound sterling is no longer comprised of silver.


   Origins of the Term Quid  

The term "quid" began sometime in the late 17th century, but the link with the British currency is unclear. Some scholars believe that Italian immigrants extracted the term from "scudo," the name for gold and silver coins of various denominations used in Italy from the 16th century through the 19th century.



The word origin may trace back to Quidhampton, a village in Wiltshire, England, once home to a Royal Mint paper mill. Any paper money made in this mill might have been called a quid. The pound sterling has a rich history of more than 12 centuries as the world's oldest currency still in use.






The modern pound sterling, whether in coins or bills, contains no silver but retains the word often associated with silver, "sterling."


   History of the British Pound Sterling  

Historians trace the pound sterling back to 775 A.D., when Anglo-Saxon kings used silver pennies, called sterlings, as currency. A collection of 240 equaled 1 pound of sterlings, hence the name "pound sterling.” In Latin, Libra means " weight," and Libra Pondo translates to pound weight, which is why the British pound bears a fancy "L" or £ symbol.



The use of a single-pound coin, or sovereign, began in 1489 under King Henry VII. In addition to the United Kingdom, the British pound has served as currency in many colonies of the British Empire, including Australia, New Zealand, and Canada.






The U.K. is made up of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales.



Two hundred forty pence in one pound sterling remained the standard for nearly 1,200 years until 1971 when the British Parliament instituted decimalization to make 100 pence equal to one pound sterling.


   Timeline of U.K. Banknotes and Coins  

In 1504: Shillings were minted with 12 pence in 1 shilling and 20 shillings in one pound
In 1560: Gold coin minting began
In 1694: English banknotes were created during the rule of King William III after he started the Bank of England. The main bill in use during that time was a 10-pound note. However, a lengthy period of severe inflation or rising prices forced the monarchy to issue five-pound notes.
In 1717: the term "pound sterling" became obsolete when Europe moved from a silver standard to a gold standard.



From 775 to 1971, British coins were made into many denominations no longer circulating, including pennies, halfpennies, farthings, half-crowns, and double-florins. In 2023, the U.K.. has eight coins and four notes circulating:



Penny in denominations of 1Pence in denominations of 2, 5, 10, 20, and 50£ coin in denominations of 1 and 2£ note in denominations of 5, 10, 20, and 50




What Are Common Slang Terms for the British Pound?
Quid is the common slang term for the British pound, and the word is never pluralized. Other terms that refer to a pound include Smacker, Fiver for the £5 note, Tenner for the £10 note, and Dosh.




How Many Pounds Is a Quid?
A quid equals £1, or one pound sterling.




What Is a Quid vs. a Pound?
Quid is a slang term for the pound sterling issued by the United Kingdom. The pound is the name of the currency issued by the U.K., like the "dollar" is for the currency issued by the United States.


   The Bottom Line  

The British pound sterling (GBP) is the oldest currency used today. It is often referred to by its nickname, quid. A quid equals £1, or one pound sterling.
What Is a Quid Pro Quo?  

Quid pro quo is a Latin term for "something for something" that originated in the middle ages in Europe. It describes a situation when two parties engage in a mutual agreement to exchange goods or services reciprocally. In a quid pro quo agreement, one transfer is thus contingent upon some transfer from the other party.



In business and legal contexts, quid pro quo conveys that a good or service has been exchanged for something of equal value. It has been used in politics to describe an unethical practice of "I'll do something for you, if you do something for me," but are allowable if bribery or malfeasance does not occur through it.





Key Takeaways

Quid pro quo describes an agreement between two or more parties in which there is a reciprocal exchange of goods or services.The phrase is Latin for "something for something."Courts may render a business contract void if it appears unfair or one-sided, and so a quid pro quo consideration is often warranted.In politics, quid pro quo agreements may be acceptable as long as they do not imply bribery or any other misappropriation.Even if a quid pro quo arrangement is legal, it may be perceived as unethical or shady.


   Understanding Quid Pro Quo  

The key to a quid pro quo business agreement is a consideration, which may take the form of a good, service, money, or, financial instrument. Such considerations are attached to a contract in which something is provided and something of equal value is hence returned in exchange. Without such considerations, a court may find a contract to be invalid or nonbinding.



Additionally, if the agreement appears to be unfair or overly one-sided, the courts may rule that the contract is null and void. Any individual, business, or other transacting entity should know what is expected of both parties to enter into a contract.



A bartering arrangement between two parties is an example of a quid pro quo business agreement where one exchanges something for something else of similar value. In other contexts, a quid pro quo may involve something along the lines of a more questionably ethical situation involving a "favor for a favor" arrangement rather than a balanced exchange of equally valued goods or services.






Quid pro quo is Latin for "something for something." It first appeared in the mid-16th century in reference to substituting one medicine for another.


   Other Examples of Quid Pro Quo  

Quid pro quo arrangements can have negative connotations in certain contexts. For example, in a quid pro quo agreement between an investment bank's research arm and a public company, the bank might amend its rating of the company's shares in exchange for underwriting business. In response to these potential conflicts of interest, U.S. financial regulators have investigated and issued rules to ensure that firms put customers' interests before their own in issuing stock ratings.



Another example of a questionable quid pro quo agreement in business is a soft dollar agreement. In a soft dollar agreement, one firm (Firm A) uses another firm's (Firm B) research. In exchange, Firm B executes all of Firm A's trades. This exchange of services is used as payment in lieu of a traditional, hard dollar payment. Research has shown that transactions executed under soft dollar arrangements cost more than execution-only arrangements.



Still, soft dollar arrangements such as these are legal in the US and other places, though discouraged in some jurisdictions and viewed as unethical by some critics.


   Special Considerations: Quid Pro Quo in Politics  

Quid pro quo arrangements may also exist in the political realm. As an example, in exchange for donations a politician may be obliged to provide a future consideration regarding policymaking or decision-making.



Such a quid pro quo does not always imply a bribe, however, merely the understanding that the politician will consider the donor's wishes when creating policy or voting on legislation. Much controversy surrounds quid pro quo in politics—so much so that, in the last 40 years, many cases have appeared before the Supreme Court to define what constitutes an illegal agreement.






In the US, the Federal Election Campaign Act limits the number of contributions made to a campaign by donors.




What Is the Definition or Meaning of the Latin Phrase “Quid Pro Quo”?
Quid pro quo literally means "something for something" in Latin. While today it denotes something done with the expectation of some favor in return ("I scratch your back, you scratch mine"), the phrase was first used by apothecaries in the 1500s when they did not have a particular remedy in stock and would thus prescribe a substitute.




Is a Quid Pro Quo Legal?
A quid pro quo is only illegal if it breaks the law, as in the case of a bribe, blackmail, or some sort of contingency (for example, requesting something non-work related in return for not firing an employee). Even if an instance of a quid pro quo is deemed legal, however, it may still be viewed unfavorably.




What Is an Example of Quid Pro Quo?
There are many examples of quid pro quo, from bartering arrangements to gift giving. An example of an illegal quid pro quo would be a case of sexual harassment, where work outcomes or compensation are linked to sexual favors.




What Is Another Way to Say Quid Pro Quo?
Other idioms that have similar meaning to quid pro quo are "I scratch your back, you scratch mine," "this for that," or "tit for tat."
What Is a Quid Pro Quo Contribution?  

Many nonprofit foundations and organizations rely on charitable donations from corporate sponsors and individuals to meet a large part of their funding needs. These can be solicited in many different forms, from one-off contributions to ongoing sponsorships from businesses in the community.



During the holidays, it is not uncommon to see organizations such as The Salvation Army collecting individual donations from patrons as they enter or exit retail establishments. Generally, these donations are made without the donor expecting anything in return except an itemized tax deduction.



A quid pro quo contribution, however, is a charitable donation for which the donor gets something of value from the recipient in exchange for their funds. The organization has created an incentive to the donation. It’s a device designed to grease the wheels of fundraising.





Key Takeaways

A quid quo pro contribution to charity is a contribution for which the donor receives something of value in return.Quid pro quo contributions are designed to incentivize giving.At tax time, the donor must deduct the dollar value of what they received from the full amount of the donation they made; thus, they arrive at the correct sum to claim as a tax deduction.


   Understanding a Quid Pro Quo Contribution  

A typical charitable donation is different from a quid pro quo contribution in that the donor receives nothing from the charity in return for the gift or deposit. The rules for tax deductions for quid pro quo contributions are also different.



With a typical donation, the donor can deduct the full amount as long as the donation meets eligibility requirements. With a quid pro quo contribution, the deductible amount is the difference between the donation and the fair market value of the goods or services that the charity provided the donor with in exchange.






For the 2021 tax year, even taxpayers who take the standard deduction rather than itemize are allowed to deduct a certain amount of charitable contributions, with the limit being $300 for single filers and $600 for a married couple filing jointly.


   An Example of a Quid Pro Quo Contribution  

During summer vacation, Beth sees that her daughter Lauren’s school is trying to raise money to buy plants and materials to make a school garden. Beth is excited about the prospect of her daughter learning how to grow fresh fruits and vegetables and gladly donates $75 to the school. As a thank you, the school offers some of the top donors gift certificates to the farm stand that they will be setting up at the end of the school year to sell off the surplus fruits and vegetables harvested from the garden. This is a quid pro quo donation, as Beth received something in return for her monetary contribution. If the school was only soliciting funds and not offering anything in return, then it would not qualify as quid pro quo.



When it is time for Beth to file her taxes, she remembers the $75 donation and the $5 gift card that she received in exchange. When she goes to add the contribution to her itemized deductions for the tax year, she can only use $70 from the donation, which is the difference between the donation and the gift that she received in return. If she hadn’t received the gift card, she would have been able to use the entire balance of the $75 donation.



The charity, however, does not have to remind Beth of the $5 gift card. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) only requires written disclosure statements to be sent to donors if their total quid quo pro contribution (not just the deductible amount) was greater than $75. Beth, however, would be responsible for remembering it herself and deducting $70 rather than $75.




What is a quid pro quo contribution?
A quid pro quo contribution is a charitable donation for which the donor is rewarded with something of value by the charity in question.




What is the purpose of a quid pro quo contribution?
Offering something of value in return for a donation is a way for a charitable organization to prompt donations that otherwise might not be forthcoming.




Is a quid pro quo contribution tax deductible?
Yes, but it does have tax implications. A regular contribution to a qualified charitable organization can be deducted in full by taxpayers who itemize their deductions. However, with a quid pro quo donation, the donor must deduct the fair market value of what they received from the charity from the full amount of their donation to arrive at the allowable tax deduction.
What Is a Quiet Period?  

Before a company’s initial public offering (IPO), the quiet period is an embargo on promotional publicity mandated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The quiet period prohibits management teams or their marketing agents from making forecasts or expressing any opinions about the value of their company. For publicly-traded stocks, the four weeks before the close of a business quarter is also known as a quiet period.





Key Takeaways

A quiet period is a set amount of time when a company's management and marketing teams cannot share opinions or additional information about the firm.The purpose of the quiet period is to preserve objectivity and avoid the appearance of a company providing insider information to select investors.With an IPO, the quiet period stretches from when a company files registration paperwork with U.S. regulators through the 40 days after the stock starts trading.With publicly-traded companies, the quiet period refers to the four weeks before the end of the business quarter.The JOBS Act created a class of companies—emerging growth companies—doing away with specific quiet periods, notably the 25-day research quiet period.


   Understanding a Quiet Period  

During quiet periods, corporate insiders are forbidden to speak to the public about their business to avoid tipping certain analysts, journalists, investors, and portfolio managers to an unfair advantage—often to avoid the appearance of insider information, whether real or perceived.



The quiet period's purpose is to create a level playing field for all investors by ensuring that everyone has access to the same information at the same time. It’s not uncommon for the SEC to delay an IPO if a quiet period has been violated; interested parties take the process seriously as there’s a lot of money on the line.


  Quiet Period Process  

After a company files registration for newly issued securities (stocks and bonds) with the SEC, its management team, investment bankers, and lawyers go on a roadshow. During a series of presentations, potential institutional investors will ask questions about the company to gather investment research. Management teams must not offer any new information that is not already contained in the registration statement but can provide some level of informational gathering.



The quiet period begins when the registration statement is made effective and lasts for 40 days after the stock starts trading and is for analysts employed by the offering’s managing underwriters and 25 days for analysts employed by other underwriters participating in the IPO. The quiet period also includes 15 days before or after the expiration, termination, or waiver of the IPO lockup period. 


  Emerging Growth Companies (EGCs)  

Note that the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act created the category of emerging growth companies (EGCs) and the quiet period rules that apply to them. The JOBS Act did away with research period quiet periods for EGCs, allowing research analysts to publish reports after the initial earnings release even if it falls within 25 days of the IPO. The Act defines EGCs as companies with less than $1 billion in revenue in their most recent fiscal year.






The term quiet period has two references in business, one relating to an initial public offering (IPO) and one to the end of the business quarter for a corporation.


   Examples of a Quiet Period Violation  

Debating the objectives of quiet periods and the SEC's enforcement are commonplace in financial markets. When quiet periods are seen as having been violated and ultimately to have benefitted select parties, legal action is usually taken.



In a 2012 example, shareholders alleged impropriety regarding the quiet period surrounding the IPO of Facebook (now Meta), arguing that certain information that should have been kept quiet may have been shared selectively, unfairly benefitting certain parties.



Facebook's IPO prompted more than a dozen shareholder lawsuits accusing the social networking company and its underwriters of obscuring its weakened growth forecasts ahead of the listing. Small investors complained they were at an informational disadvantage after underwriters' research analysts supposedly passed new and useful earnings estimates to large investors only.



In a more recent case in 2019, WeWork (a commercial real estate company that provides shared workspaces for technology startups and other services for enterprises) also faced scrutiny of the SEC for a potential violation of the quiet period rules during its initial public offering. In the prospectus filed with the SEC providing details about the investment offering to the public, WeWork admitted that then-CEO Adam Neumann gave sensitive interviews to Axios and Business Insider, taking place during the quiet period. WeWork abandoned its IPO in September 2019 after investors showed concerns about its increasing losses, forcing Adam Neumann to resign.
What Is Quiet Title?  

Quiet title is a lawsuit filed to establish ownership of real estate when ownership is in question. Real estate owners want to ensure that they have a clear title, meaning that there are no liens or levies against the title and no disputes over the property's ownership. These possible problems are known as clouds on the title and can be resolved by action to quiet the title. When you quiet the title, you are insuring that once and for all, there is only one clear owner of the title.


   BREAKING DOWN Quiet Title  

After a successful quiet title, a clear title is established and is required to close a real estate transaction and is established by title companies, who do a title search to confirm a property's legal owner and check for claims against the property. Title insurance protects the interest in a property against legal defects since title searches are not infallible.



To initiate an uncontested quiet title, a homeowner may file what is known as a quiet title action, which is a specific legal process to determine the clear ownership of a property. The quiet title action acts as a lawsuit of sorts from the individual or party who is claiming to be the sole owner of the property against all others who claim to have a stake in it. Once the proceeding has gone through and the purported owner prevails in the quiet title action, the title is considered close and quiet for that owner and no further challenges to the title can be leveraged.


   An Example of a Quiet Title  

As an example of a quiet title, there could be a Contractor whose primary job is flipping a house, meaning that Contractor A purchases a home for a low price, makes necessary home improvements, and then turns around and sells the home for a profit. In order to make a profit off of flipping homes, it’s usually a house that has been foreclosed on or previously owned by someone who was not able to successfully own the house. Thus, the home may have liens against the house or unpaid debts.



To make sure that the buyer can own the home free and clear when purchasing, the Contractor will bring a quiet title action to court to essentially bump up their ownership of the home above other previous owners. The action will be published publicly, usually in a newspaper or other public publication, which allows any other contested owners to come forward and make their claim to the property.



Once sufficient time has passed or other owners have been dealt with accordingly and there is one clear owner, the title is considered quiet.
What Is a Quiet Title Action?  

A quiet title action, also known as an action of quiet title, is a circuit court action—or lawsuit—that is filed with the intended purpose to establish or settle the title to a property.



Quiet title actions are particularly prevalent in cases where there is a disagreement on the title and the lawsuit is meant to remove, or “quiet,” a claim or objection to a title. The result is a clear title.





Key Takeaways

A quiet title action is a legal action that is intended to clarify ownership of a given property. Quiet title actions are typically used in cases where title ownership is in question. The beneficiary of a quiet title action is often protected by attempts from outside entities to acquire the property in question. Quiet title actions are common following mortgage lender disputes, the death of title owners, cases of adverse possession, and long periods of time where the property is unoccupied. A quiet title action may not give the new owner the same level of protection against the previous owner.


   Understanding a Quiet Title Action  

A quiet title action occurs when one property claimant challenges one or more other people in a court of law for the purpose of determining who is the rightful legal owner of the property in question. It is intended to quiet the conflicting claims on the property by eliminating any ambiguities in the title, thus clarifying the question of legal ownership.



Following the quiet title action, the plaintiff will be in full possession of the property in perpetuity, as will be the plaintiff's heirs, and they will also be protected from any further claims of ownership made against the property by other outside entities.






Title insurance can protect property owners against certain legal defects that could be subject to a quiet title action.


   Quiet Title Action Uses  

Quiet title action can be used for several reasons. Among the most common include:



Estate Sale: To clear up claims on the ownership of real property—or other property that is titled—following the death of the owner, particularly in situations where there is any question regarding whether all of the heirs have been notified of the sale of the estate.
Remove Lienholders: To resolve issues with a mortgage lender whose interest in the property was not properly dealt with after the loan was paid off.
Gaps in Title: To clear the title to a property that has been unoccupied for some time, allowing for outside parties to make bids for its purchase.
Quitclaim Deeds: The conveyance of an interest in the property via a quitclaim deed, in which the previous owner disclaims interest, but does not promise that the title is clear.
Adverse Possession: To convey title to a property in the case of adverse possession, in which a party occupies property that is legally not theirs for purposes of laying claim to it.
Easement & Boundary Disputes: To sort out issues relating to land access imposed by an easement and/or disputed property lines between private parties or government entities.



Other grounds for a quiet title action include to settle tax issues with a property; errors in surveying; fraudulent conveyance of the property by coercion or forged deed; treaty disputes between nations; or competing claims by lien holders, reverters, missing heirs, or remainders.


   How the Quiet Title Action Process Works  

To initiate a quiet title action, you should first determine if it is an appropriate course of action. If so, obtain a copy of the deed from the county clerk or records office. With the aid of a real estate attorney (sometimes in conjunction with a realtor), write up the complaint for the quiet title action and file the suit with the appropriate court



The quiet title action acts thus as a lawsuit levied by the party who is claiming to be the sole owner of the property against all others who may claim to have a stake in it. A judge will then rule on the merits of the case, and if successful they will issue a judgment or court order. Once the proceeding has gone through and the purported owner prevails in the quiet title action, the title is considered close and "quiet" for that owner and no further challenges to the title can be leveraged.



The process from start to finish will generally take as little as 30 days and up to more than one year depending on the complexity of the claim, the state the action takes place in, and the court's backlog.


   Special Considerations  

A quiet title action does not give the new owner the same level of protection against the previous owner in most cases. If there are problems with the property, the new owner can’t sue the previous owner, unless they acquired the property via warranty deed and sued for defects when the warranty deed was delivered.



Additionally, quiet title actions don’t always clear up all issues with a title. In some jurisdictions, they can only be used to clear up specific claims or title defects.




What Is the Meaning of Quieting a Title?
Quieting a title is the legal process of removing competing claims or challenges to title to real property.




How Much Does a Suit to Quiet Title Cost?
A quiet title action will typically cost between $1,500 to $5,000 or more, depending on what state the action takes place in and the complexity of the claim.




How Do You Fight a Quiet Title Action?
If you find yourself facing a quiet title action, you can fight it by producing a deed and other information proving that you have superior title and that their claim is invalid or mistaken. This often involves showing up to a legal hearing to present your arguments defending your title. Hiring a skilled and knowledgeable attorney to help with the defense is recommended.


   The Bottom Line  

The quiet title action is a legal remedy to resolve property disputes involving competing claims or challenges to its title. If a title is not clear, it is not "quiet". This can arise from liens, boundary disputes, easements, gaps in the chain of ownership, adverse possession, or estate sales. This action is essentially a lawsuit where the judgment that is rendered can result in a clear, or quiet title.
What are Quintiles?  

A quintile is a statistical value of a data set that represents 20% of a given population, so the first quintile represents the lowest fifth of the data (1% to 20%); the second quintile represents the second fifth (21% to 40%) and so on.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Quintiles are used to create cut-off points for a given population; a government-sponsored socio-economic study may use quintiles to determine the maximum wealth a family could possess in order to belong to the lowest quintile of society. This cut-off point can then be used as a prerequisite for a family to receive a special government subsidy aimed to help society's less fortunate.





Key Takeaways

Quintiles are representative of 20% of a given population. Therefore, the first quintile represents the lowest fifth of data and final quintile represents the final or last fifth of a data.They are generally used for large data sets and are often invoked by politicians and economists to discuss economic and social justice concepts. Depending on the size of the population, alternatives to quintiles include quartiles and tertiles.


   Understanding Quintiles  

A quintile is a type of quantile, which is defined as equal-sized segments of a population. One of the most common metrics in statistical analysis, the median, is actually just the result of dividing a population into two quantiles. A quintile is one of five values that divide a range of data into five equal parts, each being 1/5th (20 percent) of the range. A population split into three equal parts is divided into tertiles, while one split into fourths is divided into quartiles. The larger the data set, the easier it is to divide into greater quantiles. Economists often use quintiles to analyze very large data sets, such as the population of the United States.



For example, if we were to look at all of the closing prices for a specific stock for every day in the last year, the top 20% of those prices would represent the upper quintile of the data. The bottom 20% of those prices would represent the lower quintile of the data. There would be three quintiles in between the upper and lower quintiles. While the average of all the stock prices typically falls between the second and fourth quintiles, which is the middle point of the data, outliers on either the high end or the low end of the data may increase or decrease the average value. As a result, it is worth considering the distribution of the data points—and accounting for any significant outliers—when trying to understand the data and the average values.


   Common Uses of Quintiles  

Politicians invoke quintiles to illustrate the need for policy changes. For example, a politician who champions economic justice can divide the population into quintiles to illustrate how the top 20% of income earners controls what is, in his opinion, an unfairly large share of the wealth. On the other end of the spectrum, a politician calling for an end to progressive taxation might use quintiles to make the argument that the top 20% shoulder too large a share of the tax burden.



In "The Bell Curve," a controversial 1994 book on intelligence quotient (IQ), the authors use quintiles throughout the text to illustrate their research, showing that IQ is heavily correlated with positive outcomes in life.


   Alternatives to Quintiles  

For certain populations, the use of other methods to examine how the data is distributed makes more sense than using quintiles. For smaller data sets, the use of quartiles or tertiles helps prevent the data from being spread too thin. Comparing the mean, or average, of a data set to its median, or the cutoff point where the data is divided into two quantiles, reveals if the data is evenly distributed or if it is skewed toward the top or bottom. A mean that is significantly higher than the median indicates the data is top-heavy, while a lower mean suggests the opposite.
A quitclaim deed releases a person’s interest in a property without stating the nature of the person’s interest or rights, and with no warranties of that person’s interest or rights in the property.



A quitclaim deed neither states nor guarantees that the person relinquishing their claim to the property had valid ownership, but it does prevent that person (the grantor) from later claiming that they have an interest in the property.





Key Takeaways

A quitclaim deed releases a person’s interest in a property without stating the nature of the person’s interest or rights, and with no warranties of that person’s interest or rights in the property.A quitclaim deed makes no assurance that the grantor actually has an ownership interest in a property; it merely states that if the grantor does, they release those ownership rights.Quitclaim deeds are typically used to transfer property in non-sale situations, such as transfers of property between family members.


   What Is a Quitclaim Deed?  

A quitclaim deed usually includes a legal description of the property, the name of the person who is transferring their interest, the name of the person who is receiving that interest (the grantee), the date, and both parties’ notarized signatures.



Quitclaim deeds are typically used to transfer property in non-sale situations, such as transfers of property between family members. They can be used to add a spouse to a property title after marriage, remove a spouse from a title after divorce, clarify ownership of inherited property, transfer property into (or out of) a revocable living trust, clarify an easement, or change how a property’s title is held.



A quitclaim deed makes no assurance that the grantor actually has an ownership interest in a property; it merely states that if the grantor does, they release those ownership rights. As a result, when accepting a quitclaim deed, the buyer of a property accepts the risk that the grantor of the deed may not have a valid ownership interest and/or that there may be additional ownership interests in the property. Title insurance is not issued in conjunction with a quitclaim deed.


   Types of Quitclaim Deed  

Deeds are usually differentiated by what they state or guarantee when the ownership is transferred from the grantor to the grantee (buyer). Unlike a quitclaim deed, a warranty deed can grant a certain level of assurances when ownership is transferred. Warranty deeds are typically used in property sales and are granted in two common forms: general warranty deeds and special warranty deeds.



A general warranty deed provides the grantee with the highest form of protection because it assures that the grantor owns the property free and clear (and that no other entity can place a claim on it). This guarantee covers the entire history of the property—even times when the grantor did not own the property. If there are any breaches in this contract, the grantor is held responsible.



A special warranty deed conveys that the grantor owns the property and that no one else has a claim to it for as long as they have owned it. Special warranty deeds are most commonly used during commercial real estate sales. 




What is a quitclaim deed?
A quitclaim deed is a document in which a grantor disclaims all interest in a parcel of real property and then conveys that interest to a grantee. Unlike grantors in other types of deeds, the quitclaim grantor does not promise that their interest in the property is actually valid.




When is it appropriate to use a quitclaim deed?
Quitclaim deeds lack certain protections and promises found in other types of deed to real property. Because of this, they should only be used under certain circumstances. These include transferring real estate between close family members—for example, from a parent to a child.




How can I nullify a quitclaim deed?
The easiest way to overturn or cancel a quitclaim deed is if both parties to the transaction explicitly agree to do so. If somebody believes that a quitclaim deed was used to illegally transfer a property, it can be challenged in court.


   The Bottom Line  

A quitclaim deed releases a person’s interest in a property without stating the nature of the person’s interest or rights, and with no warranties of that person’s interest or rights in the property. Quitclaim deeds lack certain protections and promises found in other types of deed to real property. Because of this, they should only be used under certain circumstances.
What Is a Quorum?  

A quorum refers to the minimum acceptable level of individuals with a vested interest in a company needed to make the proceedings of a meeting valid under the corporate charter. This clause or general agreement ensures there is sufficient representation present at meetings before any changes can be made by the board.



A quorum normally consists of a group that is considered as large as possible to be depended on to attend all corporate meetings, which is a qualitative assessment. The plural of a quorum is "quora."





Key Takeaways

A quorum is a minimum level of interest or attendance required before an official meeting or action can take place.Companies often stipulate the quorum required among shareholders to make decisions, spelled out in the corporate charter.A quorum could be a simple 51% majority or some more specific or complex arrangement.Several guidelines exist that companies can draw upon to determine the appropriate formula for their quorum.When a quorum is not met during a meeting, the existing attendees are still allowed to conduct certain actions according to Robert's Rules of Order.


   How a Quorum Works  

Since there is no strict number that constitutes a quorum, best practices suggest a quorum is established as a simple majority of members within an organization. It is also possible to outline a hard number in the by-laws of a company, in which case it overrides the simple majority if that number is larger. It is important that the number decided on is not so small that it doesn't accurately represent the entirety of the members, but not so large that it becomes hard to legally hold a meeting.



Regardless, the quorum number should be representative of members in a decision-making role. If, for example, a company has ten board members, a quorum could be a simple majority of six board members rather than 51% of every shareholder in the company.






The number decided on should not be so small that it doesn't accurately represent the entirety of the members, but not so large that it becomes hard to legally hold a meeting.


   Tips to Reach a Quorum  

Meetings are most effective and the decision-making process is most efficient when quorum is met and agenda items needing to be voted on can be handled. There are several ways a governing body can ensure quorum is met:



Provide enough notice to attendees. This includes leveraging e-mail calendars and sending invitations well in advance of the meeting day.
Choose times and days that work for members. This includes taking a survey of members, being conscious of other competing activities that may occur during certain times, and coordinating across all members.
Set recurring meeting times. In time, members become more likely to recognize to hold that specific time and not double-book themselves. For example, a board that meets the second Wednesday every month should become a routine day to hold.
Send personal reminders. In advance of meeting times, send personal notes and e-mails reminding others of the meeting and motivating others to attend.
Evaluate meeting frequency. Sometimes, members are less likely to attend if meetings are overwhelming or too frequent. If possible, scale back meeting quantities and become more efficient when asking for other people's time.
Be flexible with attendance options. Some bylaws may state that calling in via phone or video conferencing still constitute as eligible attendance. While some members may not be able to attend in person, they may still contribute to quorum given flexible attendance options. 
Investigate poor attendance. Some specific members may simply not be adhering to their governing duties by not attending meetings enough. Encourage member-wide participation, and directly communicate with members not holding up their end of the agreement.


   What to Do When There Is No Quorum  

The idea and guidelines of a quorum were set by "Robert's Rules of Order." These rules were implemented to help protect organizations from the decision-making power of a select few who might be uninformed or duplicitous. However, when a quorum is not met during a meeting, the existing attendees are allowed to conduct up to four actions on behalf of the company.



Adjust the Meeting Time. When a quorum is not met, attendees of a meeting can adjust the established time for the meeting's adjournment. Doing so allows the company and its members to reschedule the existing meeting to a later date when more people can attend.
Adjourn and Push Agenda. The existing attendees can simply adjourn the meeting and try again at an upcoming meeting that is already scheduled. This occurs if there were regularly scheduled budget meetings, for example, and the posed budgeting decision is not time-sensitive.
Recess and Delay. The least painful action is a simple recess in which the existing members of a meeting pause for a break in the hopes additional members show or are rounded up. This normally happens if some members leave on their own for a break and a quorum is not met mid-meeting or if there is a known temporary delay of other members.
Enact a Privileged Motion. A privileged motion can be called under special circumstances where additional measures can be taken to establish a quorum. A committee can be formed, for example, to call absent members.






The date for the shareholders' meeting is stated in a company's bylaws and occurs on the same date each year.


   Examples of a Quorum  
  Microsoft's Quorum  

Microsoft (MSFT) has established quorum rules for its shareholders and board of directors. The company's bylaws state that the shareholders' quorum is the "majority in interest of all the shares entitled to vote on a matter." Generally, when voting, whatever the majority of the quorum votes for is approved.



For the Board of Directors, a quorum is the majority of the members of the Board. When a quorum is present during a meeting, the majority of members in attendance are permitted to decide on questions brought before them, except for those otherwise restricted by the company's bylaws. If the quorum is not present during a meeting, the members in attendance can adjourn the meeting.


  Apple's Quorum  

Concerning its shareholders, Apple (AAPL) defines its quorum as the majority shareholders in attendance, in person or by proxy, who are entitled to vote on related matters. Shareholders can transact business when a quorum is present until adjourned. If during that meeting, there are no longer enough shareholders to constitute a quorum, the meeting may continue and decisions can stand if approved by a majority of the shares required for the quorum.



Apple's quorum of Directors is the majority of the authorized number of directors. Decisions made by a majority of the directors when a quorum is present are approved. Transactions may continue when the quorum is initially present but later dismissed if the majority of the quorum approves. The meeting may be adjourned by the majority of directors present even if the quorum is not.




What Is the Quorum for the U.S. Senate?
The U.S. Constitution requires that at least 51 senators be present to do business.




What Is a Quorum Call?
A quorum call is a rule that states that members or a number of members of a governing body must be present to pass a vote. The procedure of the quorum call is to ensure the members of governing body are present and in attendance before a vote is cast.




What Is a Rolling Quorum?
A rolling quorum is one in which all required members need not be at the same location at the same time to meet the requirements for the quorum. For example, some members may be in person, while some may be on the phone/conference call.




How Many Are Needed for a Quorum?
The amount of voters needed for a quorum will vary between governing bodies and incorporating documents. Generally speaking, groups of governing bodies will typically need at least half of all member of the group in attendance to have met quorum. Other formation documents may call for a percentage of the body, while others may call for a specific number (i.e. at least 7 board members must be in attendance).




What Is an Example of a Quorum?
Society of Critical Care Medicine, a California nonprofit, lists its quorum requirements in its bylaws. 75 members eligible to vote must be present to constitute a quorum, though specific items may still be voted on should the quorum not be met.


   The Bottom Line  

A quorum is the minimum number of people needed to hold meetings or make decisions during certain company meetings. Most often, the quorum is considered the majority of members within a group or organization. A designation too small risks inadequately representing the whole, and a designation too large risks the inability to hold meetings and make decisions. Robert's Rules of Order provide a blueprint from which organizations can form their quorum.
What Is a Quota?  

A quota is a government-imposed trade restriction that limits the number or monetary value of goods that a country can import or export during a particular period. Countries use quotas in international trade to help regulate the volume of trade between them and other countries. Countries sometimes impose quotas on specific products to reduce imports and increase domestic production. In theory, quotas boost domestic production by restricting foreign competition.



Government programs that implement quotas are often referred to as protectionism policies. Additionally, governments can enact these policies if they have concerns over the quality or safety of products arriving from other countries.





Key Takeaways

Countries use quotas in international trade to help regulate the volume of trade between them and other countries.Within the United States, there are three forms of quotas: absolute, tariff-rate, and tariff-preference level.Tariffs are taxes one country imposes on the goods and services imported from another country.Because tariffs increase the cost of imported goods and services, they make them less attractive to domestic consumers.Highly restrictive quotas coupled with high tariffs can lead to trade disputes and other problems between nations.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   How a Quota Works  

Quotas are different from tariffs or customs, which place taxes on imports or exports. Governments impose both quotas and tariffs as protective measures to try to control trade between countries, but there are distinct differences between them.



Quotas focus on limiting the quantities (or, in some cases, cumulative value) of a particular good that a country imports or exports for a specific period, whereas tariffs impose specific fees on those goods. Governments design tariffs (also known as customs duties) to raise the overall cost to the producer or supplier seeking to sell products within a country. Tariffs provide a country with extra revenue and they offer protection to domestic producers by causing imported items to become more expensive.



Quotas are more effective in restricting trade than tariffs, especially if domestic demand for something is not price-sensitive. Quotas may also be more disruptive to international trade than tariffs. Applied selectively to various countries, they can be utilized as a coercive economic weapon.






Quotas are a type of nontariff barrier governments enact to restrict trade. Other kinds of trade barriers include embargoes, levies, and sanctions.


   Import Quota Regulatory Agencies  

The U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency, a federal law-enforcement agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, oversees the regulation of international trade, collecting customs, and enforcing U.S. trade regulations. Within the United States, the three forms of quotas are absolute, tariff-rate, and tariff-preference level:



An absolute quota provides a definitive restriction on the quantity of a particular good that may be imported into the United States, although this level of restriction is not always in use. Under an absolute quota, once the quantity permitted by the quota is filled, merchandise subject to the quota must be held in a bonded warehouse or entered into a foreign trade zone until the opening of the next quota period.
Tariff-rate quotas allow a country to import a certain quantity of a particular good at a reduced duty rate. Once the tariff-rate quota is met, all subsequently imported goods are charged at a higher rate.
A separate set of negotiations create tariff-preference levels, such as those established through Free Trade Agreements (FTAs).


  Goods Subject to Tariff-Rate Quotas  

Various commodities are subject to tariff-rate quotas when entering the United States. These eligible commodities include, but are not limited to, milk and cream, cotton fabric, blended syrups, Canadian cheese, cocoa powder, infant formula, peanuts, sugar, and tobacco.


   Other Types of Quotas  
  Business Quotas  

In business, a quota can refer to a sales target that a company wants a salesperson or sales team to achieve for a specific period. Sales quotas are often monthly, quarterly, and yearly. Management can also set sales quotas by region or business unit. The most common type of sales quota is based on revenue.


  Quotas in Politics  

To have an adequate representation of women and marginalized persons in political offices, governments may establish quotas. However, in democratic societies, quotas often draw as much criticism as it does support.



Some argue that it promotes diversity, equity, and inclusion; whereas, others argue that it challenges the fabric of democracy, whereby voters elect their officials.


   Real-World Example  

Highly restrictive quotas coupled with high tariffs can lead to trade disputes, trade wars, and other problems between nations. For example, in January 2018, President Trump imposed 30% tariffs on imported solar panels from China. This move signaled a more aggressive approach toward China's political and economic stance. It was also a blow to the U.S. solar industry, which was responsible for generating $18.7 billion of investment in the American economy and which at the time imported 80% to 90% of its solar panel products.




What Is a Quota for People?
A quota for people refers to the limit, either minimum or maximum, on the number of people who are allowed to be included or excluded from something.




What Does Quota Mean in Economics?
Quotas in economics refer to the time-bound restrictions governments impose on trade. This is generally done to protect and encourage domestic business and balance trade. Governments implement quotas by placing limits on the value or number of goods exported or imported. For example, a nation may restrict another from importing a maximum of 100 barrels of crude oil.




What Is Quota for a Job?
A job or workplace quota refers to the number of jobs allocated to underrepresented members of certain groups. For example, a company may decide it wants a workforce that mirrors the community or customers it serves. As a result, it may institute a quota to hire a certain number of women or a certain number of persons with disabilities.
What Is a Quota Share Treaty?  

A quota share treaty is a pro-rata reinsurance contract in which the insurer and reinsurer share premiums and losses according to a fixed percentage. Quota share reinsurance allows an insurer to retain some risk and premium while sharing the rest with an insurer up to a predetermined maximum coverage. Overall, it's a way for an insurer to boost and preserve some of its capital.





Key Takeaways

A quota share treaty is utilized when an insurer wants to free up cash flow in order to be able to underwrite more policies.A quota share treaty lowers the financial risk to the primary insurer.These types of treaties are enacted when an insurer wants to diversify its risk and is in a position to take less profit from a premium in exchange.


   Understanding Quota Share Treaties  

When an insurance company underwrites a new policy, the policyholder pays it a premium. In exchange, it agrees to indemnify the policyholder up to the coverage limit. The more policies that an insurer underwrites, the more its liabilities will grow, and at some point, it will run out of capacity to underwrite any new policies.



In order to free up capacity, the insurer can cede some of its liabilities to a reinsurer through a reinsurance treaty. In exchange for taking on an insurer's liabilities, the reinsurer receives a portion of the policy premiums.



A quota share treaty is a reinsurance agreement in which the insurer cedes a portion of its risks and premiums up to a maximum dollar limit. Losses above this limit are the insurer's responsibility, though the insurer can use an excess of loss reinsurance agreement to cover losses that exceed the maximum per policy coverage.



Some quota share treaties also include per-occurrence limits that restrict the amount of losses a reinsurer is willing to share on a per-occurrence basis. Insurers are less willing to accept this type of agreement because it can lead to a situation in which the insurer is responsible for most of the losses from a particular occurrence of a peril, such as a catastrophic flood.






Quota share treaties are a form of proportional reinsurance, as they give a reinsurer a certain percentage of a policy.


   How Quota Share Treaties Work  

Think of a quota share treaty as giving away a part of an insurer's retention. In return, the insurer gets to increase its acceptance capacity with automatic cover.



A quota share treaty reduces financial exposure to adverse claim fluctuations. The cedent can continue to participate in the underwriting gains in some negotiated percentage, even though it has reinsured the business, and has access to outside expertise from a professional reinsurer. 



Consider an insurance company looking to reduce its exposure to the liabilities created through its underwriting activities. It enters into a quota share reinsurance contract. The contract has the insurance company retaining 40% of its premiums, losses, and coverage limits, but cedes the remaining 60% to a reinsurer. This treaty would be called a 60% quota share treaty because the reinsurer is taking on that percentage of the insurer's liabilities.
What Is Quotation?  

Quotations refer to the most recent sale price of a stock, bond, or any other asset traded. In addition, most asset classes also quote the bid and ask price that determines the final sale price. The bid is defined as the highest price a buyer is willing to pay for the assets, while the ask is the lowest price a seller is willing to accept for selling.



It's common for stable, liquid assets to record narrow bid-ask spreads in a normal trading environment. However, the pair will usually divert following systemic concerns like geopolitical events or broad market downturns. The onset of volatility and uncertainty moves the supply and demand mechanisms undermining quotations into flux.





Key Takeaways

Quotations signify the recent sale price of any asset traded on the market.A definition of quotations also includes high, low, open, and close values for a given day.Most asset classes quote the asking price that determines the final sale price and the original bid.A bid is the highest price a buyer is willing to pay, and the ask is the lowest price a seller is willing to receive.Volatility in the markets will move the supply and demand mechanisms undermining quotations into flux.


   How Quotation Works  

Quotations represent two pieces of information for most asset classes: the price an investor would need to pay to purchase an asset at a particular moment in time (the lowest price "asked" by sellers) and the price an investor would receive for the same asset if they sold it at the same time (the highest "bid" by potential buyers). Together, the difference between the two represents the liquidity cost an investor incurs when trading an asset since they must buy at the bid price and sell at the asking price.






As an asset's price starts to fall, markets will see a concurrent divergence in the bid and ask prices. That wider spread can make assets less liquid and difficult to move during broad market volatility. 



Quotations aren't confined just to bid and ask prices. They also include high, low, open, and close values for a given day. A basic stock quote highlights these key data points to provide context around the current day's movements. The spread between the open and close or high and low is often a reflection of the ongoing trend. For example, sharp changes between the open and close signal strong upward momentum and an interesting trading opportunity. 


   Types of Quotations  

Most investors won't hesitate to connect the term quotation with stock prices, but many other asset classes record quotes of the last price traded.


  Fixed Markets  

For instance, fixed income markets also quote the bid and ask prices of a bond during regular trading hours. In addition to bid-ask spreads, bond quotes showcase the asset's par value and yield to maturity.



Bonds are quoted at a par value of $1,000, and the price is quoted as the percentage of its par value, which is then converted to a point scale. For example, if a corporate bond is quoted at 97, then that means it is trading at 97% of face value, meaning the actual cost to buy the bond is $970.


  Par Value  

Par value, also known as nominal value or face value, is often converted to a numeric value and multiplied by 10 to determine a bond's cost. A par value is a term used for investments that means original value.



It most commonly refers to the bond value when it was originally issued, typically $100 or $1,000. To give an example, let's say a bond is purchased for $100 and it increases in value over time and is worth $125. Although the value of the bond is $125, its par value remains $100. If the bond loses value and is worth $75, the par value remains $100 in this instance as well.



Par value is important because it determines the bond's maturity value, as well as the amount of interest paid on the bond. This rate is also commonly referred to as the bond's coupon rate.






Stock quotes may be the first and most important consideration when placing trades, but traders will always use additional information, usually technical indicators, before placing orders.


  Futures and Commodities  

Futures contracts and commodities also use quotes to provide investors and the finance audience relevant information about the asset. Quotations are used in the same way as other assets, the difference being that the buyer of a futures contract is agreeing to purchase the asset at a predetermined price at a specified time in the future.



Many investors use futures contracts to hedge trades or speculate on market movements. A futures contract and "futures" are the same thing, and investors commonly will only use the phrase "futures" when referring to futures contracts.



An example of a quotation in relation to a futures contract is if a trader purchases a futures contract for oil at $80 a barrel in one year. That means one year from the purchase date, the buyer is obligated to purchase that oil at $80 a barrel, and the seller is obligated to sell it to them. A benefit of trading futures contracts is that the trader does not need to place the entire trade amount with the brokerage. They are instead obligated to make an initial margin payment.


   Example of a Quotation  

Apple Inc. (AAPL) is a heavily traded public company. Due to the extreme liquidity of AAPL stock, trading it is simple, and with very narrow bid-ask spreads. Just as an example, let's say AAPL closed at $165 a share. The day range might be $161 to $167, but at the end of the trading day, it closed at $165.



Some traders during the day wanted to buy AAPL stock. Some wanted to sell. If AAPL was trading at $163 at 10:30 am, a buyer would see the bid-ask spread, which in this example would be $162.99 for the bid, and $163.01 for the ask. This is a very narrow spread, of only two cents. The buyer would then pay the seller the ask, the seller would deliver the stock to the buyer, and the transaction would be complete.



Although the bid and ask are fundamental aspects of trading in financial markets, when anyone refers to a quote, they are almost always referring to the last trade price of the stock. This is also the first and usually largest number you see when you are researching stocks.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How Do You Read a Stock Quote?
You read a stock quote in a few different parts. If you are just curious about the price of the stock, just look at the "quote." When people talk about what price a stock is trading at, it is this price. If you are trading the stock, you can check the bid price to see what sellers are selling the stock for, or the ask price to see what price buyers will pay. There is always a difference in these two numbers, and it is where market movers make their profits.




What Are Real-Time Quotes for Stocks?
Real-time quotes for stocks are the same as other quotes but are usually updated in "real-time" by sophisticated trading platforms. They are most commonly used by day traders who engage in high-frequency trading (HFT). However, some criticize this style of trading because it will favor companies and individuals who have the most powerful tech.




What Is a Nominal Quotation?
A nominal quotation is a hypothetical price at which a share of stock or other security might trade. These are used as "what ifs" by traders to determine if they should place a trade in the future. They are preceded with the prefixes For Your Information (FYI) or For Valuation Only (FVO). They are the opposite of a firm quotation, which is the current real quotation of the security.




What Is an Interdealer Quotation System?
An interdealer quotation system (IQS) is a system designed to organize price quotes by brokers and dealer firms. They exist to provide investors with accurate and relevant information about quotes. There are a number of IQSs, and each has its own specialization. For example, in the United States, the Nasdaq, the Nasdaq's SmallCap Market, and its Over-the-counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) platform are all integrated into the same IQS.


   The Bottom Line  

Finding a securities quotation is simple, and is usually the first number you see. If you only want to know the price of a stock, this would be enough information. If you are intending to trade, however, there are a number of other considerations within the quotation you would pay attention to such as the bid/ask spread and last trade time execution. Quotations are updated regularly by powerful technology but even then, some trading platforms will be faster than others.
What Is a Quote?  

A quote is the last price at which an asset traded; it is the most recent price that a buyer and seller agreed upon and at which some amount of the asset was transacted.



The bid quote is the most current price and quantity at which a share can be bought. The bid quote shows the price and quantity of which a current buyer is willing to purchase the shares. The ask quote shows what a current participant is willing to sell the shares for.



A quote is also referred to as an asset's "quoted price."





Key Takeaways

A quote is the last price at which an asset traded; it is the most recent price that a buyer and seller agreed upon and at which some amount of the asset was transacted.The bid quote is the most current price and quantity at which a share can be bought.The ask quote shows what a current participant is willing to sell the shares for.Investors typically reference the historical quotes for an asset in order to examine potential trends in a security’s market activity and volatility.Quotes may be provided by a variety of outlets; investment news sites and trading platforms both provide quotes.


   Understanding Quotes  

Quotes for assets change throughout the trading day as new transactions occur one after another in a continual stream of trades.



When a stock quote is referenced for a given company, it represents the most recent price at which a trade was successfully executed for that particular security. However, in general, potential investors or sellers in a company will be more concerned about the bid quotes and ask quotes (as compared to the stock quote) because they reflect the prices at which the stock can be bought or sold; the stock quote simply reveals the price at which the stock traded most recently.



Investors typically reference the historical quotes for an asset in order to examine potential trends in a security’s market activity and volatility. Quotes can be represented in relation to an instance of time, allowing for comparisons across comparable time periods. For instance, investors might reference quotes from the same day, but one year apart, in order to chart the potential trajectory for the security. They could also compare quotes across a day of trading, especially if there is volatility, in order to develop an investing strategy in response to the activity.



Quotes may be provided by a variety of outlets; investment news sites and trading platforms both provide quotes. There may be a delay in the reporting of such quotes, especially from free services that are publicly available. Trading and investing platforms may offer quotes as close to real-time as possible as part of a service to their paid subscribers. This service may be especially crucial for subscribers who want to be able to make decisions on their trading activity as soon as quotes become available.



Investing platforms often allow users to set up quote-driven alerts that are sent when shares cross certain thresholds. These notifications can also be tied to trigger an automated response. For example, an investor might put a sell order in place that is contingent on receiving a quote that shares of a security have reached a desired threshold.
What Is a Quote Currency?  

In foreign exchange (forex), the quote currency, commonly known as the counter currency, is the second currency in both a direct and indirect currency pair and is used to determine the value of the base currency.  



In a direct quote, the quote currency is the foreign currency, while in an indirect quote, the quote currency is the domestic currency. The quote currency is listed after the base currency in the pair when currency exchange rates are quoted. One can determine how much of the quote currency they need to sell in order to purchase one unit of the first or base currency.





Key Takeaways

The quote currency (counter currency) is the second currency in both a direct and indirect currency pair and is used to value the base currency.Currency quotes show many units of the quote currency they will need to exchange for one unit of the first (base) currency.In a direct quote, the quote currency is the foreign currency, while in an indirect quote, the quote currency is the domestic currency.When somebody buys (goes long) a currency pair, they sell the counter currency; if they short a currency pair, they would buy the counter currency. 


   Understanding Quote Currency  

Understanding the quotation and pricing structure of currencies is essential for anyone wanting to trade currencies in the forex market. Market makers tend to trade specific currency pairs in set ways, either direct or indirect, which means understanding the quote currency is paramount. 



A currency pair's exchange rate reflects how much of the quote currency is needed to be sold/bought to buy/sell one unit of the base currency. As the rate in a currency pair increases, the value of the quote currency is falling, whether the pair is direct or indirect.



For example, the cross rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar is denoted as USD/CAD and is a direct quote. This means that the CAD is the quote currency, while the USD is the base currency. The CAD is used as a reference to determine the value of one USD. From a U.S.-centric point of view, the CAD is the foreign currency.



On the other hand, the EUR/USD denotes the cross rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar and is an indirect quote. This means that the EUR is the base currency and the USD is the quote currency. Here, the USD is the domestic currency and determines the value of one EUR.


   Special Considerations  

Currency pairs—both base and quote currencies—are affected by a number of different factors. Some of these include economic activity, the monetary and fiscal policy enacted by central banks, and interest rates.



Major currencies, such as the euro and U.S. dollar, are more likely to be the base currency rather than the quote currency in a currency pair, especially when it comes to trades in exotic currencies.



The most commonly traded currency pairs on the market in 2021 were:



EUR/GBPEUR/USDGBP/USDUSD/CHFUSD/JPY



As noted above, the first currency in these pairings is the base currency while the second one (after the slash) is the quote currency. In the GBP/USD pairing, the pound is the base currency or the one that is being purchased while the dollar is the quote currency. This is the one that is being sold.


   Example of a Quote Currency  

Let's assume a trader wants to purchase £400 using U.S. dollars. This would involve a trade using the GBP/USD currency pair. In order to execute the trade, they need to figure out how many USD (the quote currency) they need to sell in order to get £400.



The exchange rate for the pair at the end of the trading day on June 3, 2021, was 1.4103. This means it cost the trader $1.4103 to purchase £1. To complete the transaction on that day, the trader had to sell 564.12 units of the quote currency in order to get 400 units of the base currency or $564.12 for £400 = (400 x 1.4103).
What Is a Quote-Driven Market?  

A quote-driven market is an electronic stock exchange system in which prices are determined from bid and ask quotations made by market makers, dealers, or specialists. In a quote-driven market, also known as a price-driven market, dealers fill orders from their own inventory or by matching them with other orders. A quote-driven market is the opposite of an order-driven market, which displays individual investors' bid and ask prices and the number of shares they want to trade.





Key Takeaways

When a market is considered to be quote-driven, the trades are determined by those who make the markets, rather than the investors, with dealers and specialists who are looking to fill orders from their inventory or match them with other orders.This is different from an order-driven market, which is based around what individual investors are looking for—including their bid and ask prices and how many shares they want to trade.Dealers work with banks and broker/dealers to provide quotes for different securities, and investors can either trade through them at the quoted prices or try to negotiate, with the help of their agents.Markets for bonds, currencies, and commodities are often quote driven, while stock markets are typically either order-driven or a combination of both.


   Understanding a Quote-Driven Market  

Quote-driven markets are most commonly found in markets for bonds, currencies, and commodities. Quote-driven markets are also known as a dealers market because all trades are executed through dealers. The dealers, working with investment banks, commercial banks, and broker-dealers, provide quotes for different instruments and all customers need to trade through them at the quoted prices.



Some people may also refer to quote-driven markets as a dealer- or price-driven market. The following are some of the key points about the quote-driven market.



Traders may either accept the prices quoted by the dealers or try to negotiate better prices either themselves or through their broker or agent. In a pure quote-driven market, all traders must trade through dealers; however, dealers may also trade among themselves through inter-dealer brokers. In a quote-driven market, dealers supply all the liquidity in the market.



Dealers may choose not to execute a trade for a specific client. This is often done because some dealers specialize in certain types of clients, such as retail or institutional.






Hybrid markets like the NYSE and Nasdaq combine aspects of both quote-driven and order-driven markets.


   Order-Driven Markets vs. Quote-Driven Markets  

Order execution is not guaranteed in an order-driven market, but it is guaranteed in a quote-driven market because market makers are required to meet the bid and ask prices they quote. A quote-driven market is more liquid than an order-driven market but lacks transparency. A hybrid market combines aspects of both quote-driven and order-driven markets. The NYSE and Nasdaq are both considered hybrid markets.



In an order-driven market, orders of both buyers and sellers are shown, displaying the price at which each is willing to buy or sell a stock and the quantity of the stock that they are willing to buy or sell at that price. An order-driven market is transparent in the sense that it clearly shows all of the market orders and the prices at which people are willing to buy or sell, which is not the case for quote driven-markets. Furthermore, a quote-driven market is more liquid due to the presence of market makers, but this is not the case for order-driven markets.
What Is Quote Stuffing?  

Quote stuffing is the practice of quickly entering and then withdrawing large orders in an attempt to flood the market with quotes and cause competitors to lose time in processing them.





Key Takeaways

Quote stuffing is a tactic used by high-frequency traders that involves placing and canceling large numbers of orders within extremely short time frames.The goal of quote stuffing is to gain a pricing edge over competitors as it causes them to lose time in processing these orders.Quote stuffing was initially blamed as one of the main drivers of the 2010 “flash crash,” which led the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) to fall 1,000 points within minutes.


   Understanding Quote Stuffing  

Quote stuffing, a term first coined by Eric Scott Hunsader, the founder of financial data company Nanex, is a strategy that high-frequency traders use to gain a pricing edge over competitors.



It is made possible by high-frequency trading (HFT) programs that can execute market actions with incredible speed—generating hundreds or thousands of orders per second. These programs allow high-frequency traders to make money by arbitrage: exploiting temporary pricing inefficiencies before others have time to notice and/or react to them.



According to Nasdaq, HFT is estimated to account for at least 50% of total market volume. HFT in and of itself is not illegal. However, stuffing takes place when traders fraudulently use algorithmic trading tools to overwhelm markets by slowing down an exchange’s resources with buy and sell orders in securities.



Only market makers and other large players in the market are capable of executing these tactics since they require a direct link to the securities exchanges in order to be effective. This business is all about speed and the closer a HFT server is to the exchange, the quicker they can react to new information.


   Quote Stuffing and Securities Regulators  

Quote stuffing has come under scrutiny from financial industry regulators, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodities and Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). All three regulating bodies have imposed fines on HFTs for violations of exchange rules, including quote stuffing, front-running, and price and market manipulation.



Though the SEC’s investigation ultimately placed the cause on other factors, quote stuffing was initially blamed as one of the main drivers of the 2010 “flash crash,” which led the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) to fall 1,000 points within minutes. Whatever the cause, it is reported to have been widespread and causing negative impacts on securities exchanges’ efficiency.



Additionally, research studies compiled by ResearchGate, Nanex, and the CFA Institute, among others, suggest that HFT practices, including quote stuffing, raise prices, decrease liquidity, and cause greater volatility in markets.



Both the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and FINRA adopted rule changes to address quote stuffing, including Rule 5210 (Publication of Transactions and Quotations) to prohibit “two types of quoting and trading activity that are deemed to be disruptive.” Other proposals to address the problem and reduce the advantage of HFTs include instituting minimum time periods, measured in milliseconds, before buy or sell quotes could be canceled.
What Is a Quoted Price?  

A quoted price is the most recent price at which an investment (or any other type of asset) has traded. The quoted price of investments such as stocks, bonds, commodities, and derivatives changes constantly throughout the day as events occur that affect the financial markets and the perceived value of various investments. The quoted price represents the most recent bid and ask prices that buyers and sellers were able to agree on.





Key Takeaways

A quoted price of an investment or asset is the most recent bid and ask prices that buyers and sellers agreed upon.The electronic ticker tape shows the quoted price for a stock, along with the stock symbol, the number of shares traded, the price traded at, an indication of an increase or decrease from the last quoted price, and the amount of price change.The bid price represents the highest price a prospective buyer is willing to pay for a security, commodity, or currency.The ask price, also referred to as the offer price, represents the price a seller will accept for an asset or security.The bid-ask spread is the difference between the bid price and the ask price; liquid assets that can be bought and sold easily will have a small bid-ask spread.


   Understanding a Quoted Price  

The quoted prices of stocks are displayed on an electronic ticker tape, which shows up-to-the-minute information on trading price and trading volume. For most major exchanges trading hours are 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. EST.



The ticker tape shows the stock (indicated by a three- or four-letter stock symbol or ticker symbol—e.g., AAPL for Apple Inc. or TGT for Target Corporation), the number of shares traded, the price they traded at (in decimal form), whether the quoted price represents an increase or decrease from the last quoted price, and the amount of the change in price.






Some of the most prominent exchanges in the world are the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Nasdaq, the London Stock Exchange (LSE), and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE).


   Quoted Price and Bid and Ask Prices  

The quoted price represents the most up-to-date agreement between buyers and sellers, or the bid and ask prices.


  Bid Price  

The bid price is an offer that an investor, trader or dealer makes in order to purchase a security, commodity, or currency. The bid price is the highest price a prospective buyer is willing to pay to acquire the security or asset. Quote services and stock tickers will generally display the highest bid price available for the security.


  Ask Price  

The bid price is opposed by the ask price, which is the amount of money the seller will accept for an asset or security. An ask price—also often referred to as the offer price—is always higher than the bid price.



The difference between the bid price and the ask price is the spread. The spread indicates the asset's liquidity or the ease with which it can be sold. Stocks that are especially liquid will have small spreads, often just pennies apart.



When a purchase fills at the bid price, both the bid and the ask may move higher for the next transaction, based on demand. A security's current price is the last price paid for it, which is usually different from the bid and the ask.


   Special Considerations  

For individuals that are trading their own portfolios, quoted prices are often displayed in a rectangle in an easy-to-spot location on their online trading platform. The bids and asks are constantly moving if the security is in high demand and trading with a large volume. If the security is not well covered and does not have significant demand, the quoted price may not move much up or down over the course of the trading day.


   Quoted Price and Traders  

Many stakeholders follow the quoted prices of stocks, including company management, the investor relations team, major investors, and retail investors. Traders, in particular, are constantly watching and predicting a security’s quoted price in order to place bets for their clients or their own accounts. When a trader works for a financial institution, they generally trade with the company's money and credit. Alternatively, a trader may work independently, in which case they would not receive the same salary and bonus as for a larger entity but are able to keep all of the profit.
