What Is J?  

The term J refers to a designation for Nasdaq-listed stocks that specifies that the stock has voting rights. The designation appears as the fifth letter following a dot after a stock's four-letter ticker symbol. It is added to denote a shareholder vote situation. The letter J is a temporary suffix that is removed once the shareholder vote situation is resolved. Other letter designations are used to describe share classes, foreign issues, preferred issues, and a company's financial status.





Key Takeaways

J is a fifth-letter designation used to illustrate that a Nasdaq-listed security has voting rights. Nasdaq-listed stocks have four characters, usually letters, known as a ticker symbol.Th J appears after a dot at the end of the company's ticker symbol. The J-designation is temporary and is removed after the shareholder vote is complete.


   Understanding J  

Securities that trade on stock exchanges are represented by a series of characters, usually a set of letters. This arrangement is referred to as a ticker symbol. It allows individuals and companies to execute trades for these securities. Traders can recognize the stock exchange on which these companies trade based on the number of letters in the symbol. For instance, stocks that trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) have three letters while those on the Nasdaq have four.



Publicly-traded stocks also come with suffixes that alert shareholders to specific situations pertinent to the company. These suffixes appear as a fifth-letter identifier following a dot after a company's ticker symbol. The letter J is one of those suffixes. This designation identifies public security issues that have voting rights. J also reveals that there is more than one issue of a company’s common stock. For example, Google offers two classes of stock to the public—one is voting shares and the other is non-voting.



The letter J is only added temporarily when there is a shareholder vote situation and is removed when the situation has been resolved. Common stock with voting rights is considered voting stock. The majority of common stock has voting rights. Voting stock, which carries voting rights, allows a shareholder to vote during a shareholder vote situation. The items that might require a shareholder vote include voting on board of director members or corporate transactions like mergers. The exchange removes the designation once the shareholder vote situation is complete.






Since its ticker symbols are comprised of three letters, the NYSE uses a fourth letter to identify unique instances where the issuance varies from normal conditions.


   J vs. Other Letter Designations  

The Nasdaq uses a variety of letters, which are called fifth-letter designations, to distinguish stock issuances and the rights that come along with them. J is just one of those designations. As mentioned above, J is a temporary addition to a stock's ticker symbol. Like J, the letter D is also a temporary suffix. D represents a new issue, noting that it’s a corporate reorganization.



If you see a ticker symbol that has the letter H after a dot, it means that the issuance is the second preferred bond of the company. The K at the end of a symbol means the stock is non-voting.



The letter E means the company is delinquent with a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing, while C means the company does not meet all requirements for listing on the Nasdaq. An A or B means it's the company's A or B shares, respectively, and most of the various other letters deal with being a preferred, convertible, or rights issuance.
What Is a J Curve?  

A J Curve is an economic theory which states that, under certain assumptions, a country's trade deficit will initially worsen after the depreciation of its currency—mainly because in the near term higher prices on imports will have a greater impact on total nominal imports than the reduced volume of imports. This results in a characteristic letter J shape when the nominal trade balance is charted as a line graph.





Key Takeaways

The J Curve is an economic theory that says the trade deficit will initially worsen after currency depreciation.The nominal trade deficit initially grows after a devaluation, as prices of exports rise before quantities can adjust.Then, as quantities adjust, there is an increase in imports as exports remain static, and the trade deficit shrinks or reverses into a surplus forming a “J” shape. The J Curve theory can be applied to other areas besides trade deficits, including in private equity, the medical field, and politics.  


   Understanding a J Curve  

The J Curve operates under the theory that the trading volumes of imports and exports first only experience microeconomic changes as prices adjust before quantities. Then, as time progresses, export volumes begin to dramatically increase, due to their more attractive prices to foreign buyers. Simultaneously, domestic consumers purchase less imported products, due to their higher costs.



These parallel actions ultimately shift the trade balance, to present an increased surplus (or smaller deficit), compared to those figures before the devaluation. Naturally, the same economic rationale applies to the opposite scenarios—when a country experiences a currency appreciation, this would consequently result in an inverted J Curve.



The lag between the devaluation and the response on the curve is mainly due to the effect that even after a nation’s currency experiences a depreciation, the total value of imports will likely increase. However, the country's exports remain static until the pre-existing trade contracts play out.



Over the long haul, large numbers of foreign consumers may bump up their purchases of products that come into their country from the nation with the devalued currency. These products now become cheaper relative to domestically-produced products.


   Other Uses of the Term J Curve  

J Curves demonstrate how private equity funds historically usher in negative returns in their initial post-launch years but then start witnessing gains after they find their footing. Private equity funds may take early losses because investment costs and management fees initially absorb money. But as funds mature, they begin to manifest previously unrealized gains, through events such as mergers and acquisitions (M&A), initial public offerings (IPOs), and leveraged recapitalization.






Broadly speaking, any phenomenon that shows an initial paradoxical response to a change followed by a strong response in the expected direction can display a letter J shape when charted as a line graph, and thus be referred to as a J Curve.



In medical circles, J Curves appear in graphs, where the X-axis measures either one of two possible treatable conditions, such as cholesterol levels or blood pressure, while the Y-axis indicates the likelihood of a patient developing cardiovascular disease.



Elsewhere, a motor with an oil leak may initially show an increase in oil pressure as the low oil level causes increased friction and heat, then a larger decrease in oil pressure as more of the engine's oil leaks out. This would appear as a reverse J Curve if plotted as a chart of engine oil pressure over time.



The theory has also featured in political science. Noted American sociologist James Chowning Davies incorporated the J Curve in models used to explain political revolutions, asserting that riots are a subjective response to a sudden reversal in fortunes after a long period of economic growth, known as relative deprivation.


   Real World Example of the J Curve  

Look no further than Japan in 2013 for a practical example of the J Curve. The country's trade balance deteriorated after a sudden depreciation in the yen, owing mostly to the fact that the volume of exports and imports took time to respond to price signals.






In 2013, the USD to yen exchange rate hit 100— for the first time since 2009—and has remained above that level ever since.



Japan’s government made major purchases of its currency to help get out of a deflationary state. The country's trade deficit swelled to a record 1.3 trillion yen (US$12.7 billion) on energy imports and a weaker yen.﻿﻿﻿﻿
What Is a J-Curve?  

A J-curve is a trendline that shows an initial loss immediately followed by a dramatic gain. In a chart, this pattern of activity would follow the shape of a capital "J".



The J-curve effect is often cited in economics to describe, for instance, the way that a country’s balance of trade initially worsens following a devaluation of its currency, then quickly recovers and finally surpasses its previous performance.



J-curves are observed in other fields including medicine and political science. In each case, it depicts an initial loss followed by a significant gain to a level that exceeds the starting point.


   Understanding the J-Curve  

The J-curve is useful to demonstrate the effects of an event or action over a set period of time. Put bluntly, it shows that things are going to get worse before they get better.





Key Takeaways

A J-curve depicts a trend that starts with a sharp drop and is followed by a dramatic rise.The trendline ends in an improvement from the starting point.In economics, the J-curve shows how a currency depreciation causes a severe worsening of a trade imbalance followed by a substantial improvement.



In economics, it is often used to observe the effects of a weaker currency on trade balances. The pattern is as follows:



Immediately after a nation's currency is devalued, imports get more expensive and exports get cheaper, creating a worsening trade deficit (or at least a smaller trade surplus).
Shortly thereafter, the sales volume of the nation's exports begins to rise steadily, thanks to their relatively cheap prices.
At the same time, consumers at home begin to buy more locally-produced goods because they are relatively affordable compared to imports.
Over time, the trade balance between the nation and its partners bounces back and even exceeds pre-devaluation times.



The devaluation of the nation's currency had an immediate negative effect because of an inevitable lag in satisfying greater demand for the country's products.



When a country’s currency appreciates, economists note, a reverse J-curve may occur. The country’s exports abruptly become more expensive for importing countries. If other countries can fill the demand for a lower price, the stronger currency will reduce its export competitiveness. Local consumers may switch to imports, too, because they have become more competitive with locally-produced goods.


  The J-Curve in Private Equity  

The term J-curve is used to describe the typical trajectory of investments made by a private equity firm.






The J-curve is a visual representation of the plain fact that sometimes things will get worse before they get better.



Private equity firms have a different path to profitability than public companies or the funds that invest in them.



Their portfolios, by design, are made up of companies that were performing poorly when they were purchased. The firm then spends substantial amounts of money retooling the company before spinning it off as a renewed company.



That means an initial decline in performance followed, at least theoretically, by a steep improvement in performance.
Jack Welch was the chair and chief executive of General Electric (GE) from 1981 to 2001. Welch dramatically increased the market value of GE from $14 billion to $410 billion. He had a reputation as one of the top CEOs of all time. Fortune dubbed him "Manager of the Century" in 1999. When Welch retired, GE awarded him a severance of about $417 million, the largest ever at the time. Welch died on March 1, 2020, at the age of 84 from renal failure.





Key Takeaways

Jack Welch was the chair and chief executive of General Electric from 1981 to 2001.Welch closed factories, laid-off workers, and presented a vision of growing fast in a slow-growth economy.Welch was active as a public speaker and writer, co-authoring two books with his wife Suzy Welch.He retired from GE in 2011 and handed the reins to Jeffrey Immelt. Welch died of renal failure on March 1, 2020, at the age of 84.












Investopedia / Hugo Lin


   Early Life and Education  

John Francis Welch Jr. was born in Peabody, Massachusetts, on Nov. 19, 1935, to John and Grace Welch. He graduated from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, with a bachelor's degree. He earned his doctorate in engineering from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.



Welch began working for GE as a junior engineer in 1960. He rose through the ranks to run the company as chair and chief executive officer (CEO) between 1981 and 2001. Welch threatened to leave the company in his early years of employment on a number of occasions due to bureaucratic inefficiency. He worked to eliminate bureaucracy and increase growth as the company's leader.


   Notable Accomplishments  

Jack Welch streamlined GE's sprawling businesses during the 1980s. He fired unproductive managers and eliminated whole divisions then acquired other companies and drove them to adopt better management models and increase profits for GE.



He closed factories, laid-off workers, and presented a vision of "growing fast in a slow-growth economy," which was the title of a speech he gave in 1981, soon after he became chair. This included cutting fat from what began as a nine-level layer of management. He also worked to establish an air of informality. The aim was to make GE seem as though it were a small company rather than the amalgamated corporation it became during Welch's tenure as leader.



Welch's core management belief was that high-performing managers could turn around almost any business, so GE experimented with everything from television to synthetic diamonds. Ironically, this led to an expansionary phase, making GE once again a conglomerate by nature—even if it was a more aggressively managed one.



Jack Welch, who was dubbed Manager of the Century in 1999 by Fortune, retired from GE in September 2001. His severance package was estimated to be $417 million.






This period of massive restructuring earned him the nickname "Neutron Jack," because he took out the people while leaving the buildings standing, just like a neutron bomb.


  Published Works  

In retirement, Welch was active as a writer and public speaker. In 2005, he penned and published his memoir, Winning. The book focuses on management and business. It was co-authored by Welch's wife, Suzy. It sold more than 10 million copies worldwide, according to a 2020 report from The New York Times. The husband-wife duo also co-wrote another book called The Real Life MBA. Published in 2015, the book focuses on business, leadership, management, and career development.






Jack Welch joined a business forum created by former President Donald Trump to provide strategic advice on economic issues. 


  Legacy  

Welch's leadership remains his greatest legacy. He promoted the idea that GE (and other companies) should lead a particular industry or leave it completely. He led the adoption of Motorola's Six Sigma program for increasing productivity in manufacturing, applying it to GE as a whole. He developed a rank-and-yank style of dealing with underperforming employees and managers by making clear cuts from staff based on their rankings against other employees and divisions.



But Welch's legacy is somewhat complicated by GE's fate since his departure. Welch left the company just as the dotcom bubble burst, damaging some of GE's expanding business lines. His successor, Jeffrey Immelt, was forced to exit many businesses that were considered a distraction from GE's major profit centers.



Immelt also presided over a drop in GE shares as the 2007-08 Financial Crisis hit GE's financial operations. The model Jack Welch left behind was good at squeezing profits from top businesses. However, it left GE ill-equipped to survive outside shocks and grow new businesses and innovations that would carry the company into the future. In short, GE's success was very much a product of great timing that was difficult to sustain over the long term.



Welch was perhaps the first CEO whose performance was seen mainly through the lens of share performance. While investors generally appreciate this view of corporations, it led managers to focus on short-term performance. This short-term performance focus can have a long-term detrimental impact on the sustainability of a company when taken to an extreme.


  Personal Life  

Jack Welch was married three times. In 1959, he married Carolyn B. Osburn. The two, who had four children, divorced in 1987. He married Jane Beasley in 1989 and divorced her in 2003. He married his third wife, Suzy Wetlaufer, in 2004. Welch died in 2020 of renal failure.




Why Made Jack Welch a Good Leader?
Jack Welch was considered a good leader because of his vision of quick growth during times of economic slowdown. As chair and CEO of GE, he looked for inconsistencies and streamlined the company's businesses. He eliminated wasteful divisions and unproductive management personnel. He also attempted to remove the formalities of business by creating an informal environment.




How Did Jack Welch Transform GE?
Jack Welch joined GE in 1960 as a junior engineer. He worked his way up the corporate ladder and became the company's chair and CEO in 1981. As the leader of GE, he made major changes to the company and how it operated, using aggressive tactics to achieve short-term results. He made structural changes to the company, including streamlining its businesses and getting rid of entire divisions. He also found and fixed inefficiencies like closing down factories and laying off workers in an attempt to increase profitability and productivity.




What Happened to GE After Jack Welch Retired?
Jack Welch retired from his role as chair and CEO of GE in 2001. He was succeeded by Jeffrey Immelt, who called his reign "controversial." The company's share price dropped significantly during his term as CEO, unlike his predecessor. The company saw as much as $150 billion wiped out from its market value with Immelt at the helm, compared to the transformation of $14 billion to $410 billion when Welch ran the company.


   The Bottom Line  

Jack Welch was considered a powerhouse in the corporate world. Taking control of GE in 1981, he transformed the company by focusing on short-term gains using very aggressive strategies. Welch is credited with turning GE into a powerful conglomerate by reducing inefficiencies and making acquisitions. Under his leadership, GE's shareholders saw the company's market value increase. Welch retired in 2001 and handed the reins to Jeffrey Immelt. Although Welch died in 2020, his leadership at GE remains his greatest legacy.
What Is a Jackpot?  

A jackpot is a large windfall derived from an act of gambling. In finance, jackpots refer to large investment returns reaped over a short period of time.





Key Takeaways

A jackpot is a sudden financial windfall from an investment or another source.A jackpot originally refers to a large one-time pay-out in gambling, but can occur in investing through a hot IPO or an especially lucrative trading strategy.Jackpots are an average investor’s dream, but they can come with some challenges too.


   Understanding a Jackpot  

Jackpot entered the English lexicon via a 19th-century variant of five-card-draw poker which required a player to declare a hand with a pair of jacks or better in order to open bidding. Players contributed an ante prior to each deal, so a series of hands during which nobody could lay claim to anything better than a pair of tens would increase the size of the pot. The meaning broadened throughout the gambling industry, generally describing situations in which winnings build over a period of time before paying out, such as slot machines or lottery games.



The use of jackpot as a financial term stems from a more colloquial broadening of its definition to a large and unexpected win. For example, investors who purchase stock in an initial public offering (IPO) hit the jackpot if the company they back experiences a dramatic and swift rise in share price, allowing the investors to cash out with substantial profit.


   Jackpots and Their Consequences  

It’s human nature to daydream about winning the lottery, backing the right horse, or getting in on the ground floor of a hot IPO, and those daydreams naturally revolve around what one could do with all that newfound wealth.



Regardless of its origin, a financial windfall can generate more challenges than investors might anticipate, especially if they do not understand the consequences of receiving a large amount of money at one time. Those fortunate enough to find themselves newly rolling in cash may find the temptation to go out on a buying spree difficult to resist, but their future financial health could depend on resisting it.



First and foremost, jackpots are typically subject to taxes. Tax treatments vary based upon the origin of the windfall, however, and not all jackpots pay out the same way. For example, some lottery payouts offer winners a choice between a lump sum and an annuitized payout that offers periodic payments. Liquidating a lucrative investment position often means capital gains taxes. Financial planners and tax advisors can play key roles in helping to ensure windfalls get invested appropriately and that individuals set enough aside to ensure they have enough to pay when Tax Day rolls around.



After tax planning, financial advisors typically suggest that individuals who have hit the jackpot take it slow with large-ticket impulse spending. Even a large windfall will run out, and the amount of time it takes to burn through that cash may not be nearly as long as one might imagine. Some lottery winners even end up in debt or bankrupt after overextending their borrowing after a big win. 



Lastly, recipients of a financial jackpot should consider how the new wealth impacts their investment goals, strategies, and risk tolerance. Personal financial affairs and one’s overall portfolio may need to be re-evaluated and realigned to reflect a higher net-worth, long-term investment plan.
What Is the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium?  

The Jackson Hole Economic Symposium is an annual symposium, sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City since 1978, and held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., since 1981. Every year, the symposium focuses on an important economic issue that faces world economies. Participants include prominent central bankers and finance ministers, as well as academic luminaries and leading financial market players from around the world.



The symposium proceedings are closely followed by market participants, as unexpected remarks emanating from the heavyweights at the symposium have the potential to affect global stock and currency markets.





Key Takeaways

The Jackson Hole Economic Symposium conference is an annual and exclusive central banking conference to foster open discussion about important and current policy matters.Papers and transcripts of the conference are compiled into proceedings books, which are posted on the website and published in a volume that is available for free online or in print.Past topics of consideration at the conference include the impact of tech giants like Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, Apple, and Google on big companies (2018) and financial stability in the wake of a global recession (2016).


   Understanding the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium  

The Jackson Hole Economic Symposium is one of the longest-standing central banking conferences in the world. The mission of the event is to foster an open discussion. Attendees are selected based on each year’s topic, with additional consideration given to create regional diversity among attendees.



The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City charges attendees a fee to cover the expenses associated with the symposium. About 120 people generally attend a year, representing a variety of backgrounds and industries. But attendance by participants is limited and select media is also invited. This not only helps keep the focus of the symposium on track but also provides it with transparency.



Each year, the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City selects a specific topic for the symposium and chooses a pool of attendees based on that topic. These experts write and present research related to the symposium's theme. The bank posts the papers online, along with full transcripts from the event. Anyone who wishes to view them can do so for free online, or get a free printed copy after they are published.



The topic for the 2023 symposium is "Structural Shifts in the Global Economy."


   Past Topics at the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium  
  Changing Market Structures and Implications for Monetary Policy (2018)  

With the rise of tech giants like Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, Apple, and Google, has the amassed market power of such big companies hurt the broader economy—or could it? Do antitrust authorities need to take firmer action?


  Designing Resilient Monetary Policy Frameworks for the Future (2016)   

In the wake of the global financial crisis, central banks worldwide used a variety of tactics to resuscitate their countries’ economies. While the traditional tactic of slashing interest rates to reduce borrowing costs was widely used, many central banks also took the more unconventional approach of beefing up their balance sheets by acquiring financial assets, such as sovereign, agency, and corporate bonds, and in some instances, stocks, in large quantities.


  Price Stability and Public Policy (1984)  

A major and ongoing consideration for central bankers is staying ahead of inflation by setting interest rates to prevent disruptive rapid price increases; however, these days, preventing inflation isn't as simple as it used to be. The global economy is awash in liquidity, normally an ignition source for inflation, as more money chases the same quantity of goods, leading to ever-higher prices.




What Is the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium 2023?
The topic for the 2023 Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium is "Structural Shifts in the Global Economy." Speakers include Jerome Powell, Chair of the Federal Reserve, Christine Lagarde, President of the European Central Bank, Ben Broadbent, Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, and Kazuo Ueda, Governor of the Bank of Japan. Topics that will be discussed include structural changes in the financial markets and the conduct of monetary policy and structural constraints on growth.




What Happens at the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium?
The Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium is an annual gathering of individuals to discuss central banking policies. The symposium brings together people from across the economic, financial, and governmental fields, to discuss the most pressing matters facing global economics.




Who Attends the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium?
Prominent members from the government, academia, economics, and the financial markets attend the Jackson Hole Symposium. This includes heads of global central banks, managers of financial institutions, and professors from respectable universities such as Harvard and Stanford.


   The Bottom Line  

Each year, the Federal Reserve of Kansas City hosts the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium, bringing together economists, financial market participants, academics, U.S. government representatives, and media to discuss central banking policy issues. Each year, the symposium has a specific topic it discusses, seeking to discuss and improve long-term policies that are of concern to all parties involved.
What Is the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX)?  

The Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) handles securities transactions in the country of Indonesia. The primary goal of the IDX is to provide the infrastructure to enable orderly, fair, and efficient trading of securities. The IDX saw a record number of investors in 2021 and has 713 company listings as of 2020.





Key Takeaways

The Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) handles securities transactions in the country of Indonesia. The primary goal of the IDX is to provide the infrastructure to enable orderly, fair, and efficient trading of securities.In 2021, IDX succeeded in boosting the number and participation of investors. Daily trading values and frequency set a new record for the exchange.The IDX had 713 listed companies at the end of 2020.


   Understanding the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX)  

The Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) was created by the merger of the Jakarta Stock Exchange (JSX) and the Surabaya Stock Exchange (SSX). The JSX was Indonesia's first stock exchange, founded in 1912 for the interest of the Dutch East India Company. The Jakarta Stock Exchange was closed during parts of World Wars I and II. When it reopened in 1952, the only exchanged security was the Indonesian government bond. The exchange became inactive from 1956–1977, and despite being reactivated in 1977, trading activity continued to be slow, with only a few dozen companies listed.



Regulatory changes that were enacted between 1988 and 1992 improved trading activity. The exchange introduced its automatic trading system in 1995 and began to implement remote trading in 2002. In 2007, the Jakarta Stock Exchange merged with the Surabaya Stock Exchange to form the Indonesia Stock Exchange. In May of 2018, the exchange updated its trading system and created a new data center.



Emerging markets like Indonesia have their own set of additional risks for investors. Emerging markets generally do not have the level of market efficiency and strict standards in accounting and securities regulation to be on par with advanced economies (such as the United States, Europe, and Japan), but emerging markets do typically have a physical, financial infrastructure, including banks, a stock exchange, and a unified currency.


   Indonesia Stock Exchange Developments  

The IDX has strived to become a credible and acknowledged world-class stock exchange. In its annual report of 2020, the key achievements for the IDX included the following:



Listed 51 new companies, 110.87% higher than targetedRanked 7th in the world for the number of newly listed companiesIncrease of 56% of investors, highest since 2016Recorded the highest daily trading frequency in the history of the Indonesian Capital Market on Dec. 22, 2020



In 2020, IDX succeeded in boosting the number and participation of investors, which set a new record for the history of the stock exchange. The IDX saw an increase in quantity and quality of listed companies, including recording the largest number of company listings in ASEAN. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a group of 10 nations in Southeast Asia that collaborate to promote economic and cultural growth. Besides Indonesia, some of the other ASEAN countries include Malaysia, The Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand.



The total number of listed companies stands at 713 at the end of 2020. The exchange continues to expand by adding 47 new exchange traded funds (ETFs) and 51 new securities. Also, new corporate bonds and REITs or Real Estate Investment Trusts have been added. REITs pool investors' money to invest in commercial properties and collect the rent.



In 2020, the exchange saw a 73% increase in the number of daily active investors from 2019, and reached a market capitalization of Rp 6,970 trillion ($490 billion) by 2021.
James H. Clark is a successful serial entrepreneur and computer scientist, perhaps best known for co-founding Netscape with Marc Andreessen in 1994. Netscape Navigator was the market leader in web browsers in the early days of the internet, becoming the dominant browser in terms of usage share in the 1990s.



Netscape was eventually purchased by America Online (AOL) in 1998, making Clark a billionaire. Clark started Netscape with a $4.1 million investment and exited the company with a $1.2 billion payout.





Key Takeaways

James H. "Jim" Clark is an entrepreneur best known for co-founding Netscape in 1994 along with Marc Andreessen.Clark is also known for multiplying his wealth through timely tech investments in companies such as Meta, Apple, X (formerly Twitter), and Palantir.He helped start Silicon Graphics, a visual effects company; Shutterfly, a photo-sharing and storage website; and Healtheon, which later merged with WebMD.More recently, Clark started a venture called CommandScape, a smartphone app that controls everything from a building's alarms and cameras to its lighting and thermostat.With a net worth of more than $3 billion, Clark has given millions of dollars in donations to places including Tulane University and Stanford.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

James H. Clark was born in Plainview, Texas, on March 23, 1944, to blue-collar working parents. When Clark was a small child, his parents divorced, and he and his siblings lived with their mother. James rebelled as a youth, misbehaving in school. This led to many disciplinary actions, including suspension. Ultimately, he dropped out of high school and joined the Navy. While there, Clark ran a side business making loans to other sailors.



He later returned to continue his formal education, beginning with taking classes at Tulane University's University College. Although he didn't have a high school degree, he was eventually admitted to the University of New Orleans, where he earned his bachelor's and a master's degree in physics. Clark eventually earned a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Utah. Clark went on to become an associate professor of electrical engineering at Stanford University and a major benefactor of the James H. Clark Center, the location of the bioscience research program at Stanford.


   Notable Accomplishments  

In 1991, Clark founded Silicon Graphics (SGI), a company that produced high-quality visual effects for film and 3-D images for engineers. Silicon Graphics counted George Lucas' LucasFilm and Steven Spielberg among its customers and had become a global leader in the production of Hollywood movie visual effects and 3-D imaging. In 1994, he left the company and sold his shares.



Soon after leaving SGI, James Clark, along with Marc Andreessen, founded Netscape, a tech company that introduced the Navigator graphical-interface web browser, one of the most popular web browsers of the 1990s.



Navigator once commanded more than 70% of the market but met its demise when it tried to compete with Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Microsoft included Internet Explorer for free with its Windows operating system, making it the browser of choice. Because it was not free to use, Navigator ultimately lost market share.






The end of Netscape Navigator was central to Microsoft's antitrust trial, the result of which was a ruling that stated that Microsoft's bundling of Internet Explorer (IE) with the Windows operating system was a monopolistic business practice.



In 1998, AOL purchased Netscape for $4.2 billion, inaugurating Clark into the billionaire's club.



Clark also founded Healtheon, which later merged with WebMD, and he was the original investor and chair of the digital photo-sharing website Shutterfly, founded in 1999.


   Wealth and Philanthropy  

While Jim Clark is best known as the co-founder of Netscape, he has since multiplied his wealth through timely tech investments in companies such as Meta, Apple, X (formerly Twitter), and Palantir. His latest startup is a venture called CommandScape, an app that controls everything from a building's alarms and cameras to its lighting and thermostat.



As of 2023, Forbes estimates that Clark's net worth is more than $3 billion, making him one of the wealthiest men in America.



An ocean lover, his yachts include the 300-foot sailing yacht Athena and the 100-foot racing sailboat Comanche. He is also a well-known philanthropist, contributing mainly to institutions of higher education, such as Stanford University and Tulane University.


   Personal Life  

Clark has been married four times. The divorce from his third wife of 15 years, Nancy Rutter—a Forbes journalist—is reported to have cost him $125 million in cash and assets in the settlement. He married Kristy Hinze, a former swimsuit model, in 2009.



Clark has two daughters with Kristy Hinze: Dylan Vivienne and Harper Hazelle.




How Much Did James Clark Make From Netscape?
James Clark received a $1.2 billion settlement for the sale of Netscape to AOL in 1998.




How Many Companies Has James H. Clark Founded?
James Clark first founded Silicon Graphics, a computer hardware and software company, in 1982. After selling his stake in the company nearly a decade later, Clark co-founded Netscape, a computer services company responsible for the widely-popular web browser, Navigator. In 1996, Clark founded Healthscape (later Healtheon), a company that streamlines and automates healthcare transactions.




What Did James Clark Invent?
While working as a Stanford associate professor, Clark and some of his graduate students created the Geometry Engine computer chip, which instantly processed 3-D images.


   The Bottom Line  

Jim Clark is an American businessman behind the launch and success of several Silicon Valley companies. Most notably, he is credited with co-founding Netscape, which propelled him to billionaire status. He also developed the CommandScape app, which controls and manages home and business devices, such as alarms and thermostats. Clark's investment portfolio and philanthropic ventures are as impressive as his business portfolio. If history is an indicator of things to come, we will see another 'scape' development from Jim Clark.
James M. Buchanan Jr. was an American economist who earned the Nobel Prize in economics in 1986 for his contribution to public choice theory, which uses economics to analyze the behavior of voters and public officials.



He is the author of several books, including What Should Economists Do?, The Limits of Liberty, and The Calculus of Consent with Gordon Tullock.



James M. Buchanan Jr. died on Jan. 9, 2013.





Key Takeaways


James M. Buchanan Jr. received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1986.
He developed the public choice theory with fellow economist, Gordon Tullock.
Buchanan's work in economics helped establish the Center for Study of Public Choice at George Mason University,













Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Early Life and Education  

James M. Buchanan Jr. was born Oct. 3, 1919, in Murfreesboro, Tenn. He earned a bachelor's degree at Middle Tennessee State College in 1940 and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1948.



From 1956 to 1968, Buchanan served as a professor at the University of Virginia, where he founded the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy. He taught at UCLA and Virginia Tech from 1968 to 1983 before moving to George Mason University, where he retired with emeritus status.


   Public Choice Theory  

In 1962, along with fellow economist Gordon Tullock, James M. Buchanan Jr. wrote The Calculus of Consent, which presents the basic principles of public choice theory. The book is regarded as a reference to the discipline of public choice in political science and economics.



The public choice theory applies economics to political decision-making and defies the conventional beliefs that politicians act in the best interest of their constituents. It evaluates how incentives and personal gain shape politicians' choices. Buchanan's insights into human nature and political outcomes provide an understanding of the perks that motivate political actors and allow for more accurate predictions of political decisions.In 1986, Buchanan was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics for "his development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making."



The Center for Public Choice at George Mason University builds on the groundbreaking economic and political science theories for which Buchanan was awarded the Nobel Prize. As a research program, public choice extends the tools of economics to analyze the behavior of voters, candidates, legislators, bureaucrats, and judges. Created in 1957 at the University of Virginia, the Center was initially called the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy. In 1969, the Center moved to Virginia Tech and, in 1983, to George Mason University, where it operates today.




What Areas of Economics Influenced James M. Buchanan Jr.?
Buchanan explored several different economic schools of thought, including libertarianism and free-market thinking.




What Is the Difference Between Public Choice Theory and Social Choice Theory?
Public choice theory is closely related to social choice theory. Both of these schools of thought are classified under the study of public economics. However, the social choice theory is a mathematical approach to the combined variables of individual interests, included in public choice theory, and how those interests affect voter behavior.




What Leadership Positions Did James M. Buchanan Jr. Hold?
Buchanan served as a member of the Board of Advisors of the Independent Institute, a member and former president of the Mont Pelerin Society, and a Distinguished Senior Fellow of the Cato Institute.


   The Bottom Line  

James M. Buchanan Jr. pioneered the economic theory of public choice and challenged the notion that politicians act solely on behalf of their constituents and concluded that self-interest and incentives are often motivators for civil servants and elected officials.
James Tobin was a Neo-Keynesian economist who received the 1981 Nobel Prize in economics for his research on the financial system and its impact on inflation and employment.



He is known for pioneering the Tobin Tax, a levy on foreign exchange transactions to reduce currency speculation.



Tobin is the author of several books including Essays in Economics and Money, Credit and Capital. James Tobin died on March 11, 2002.





Key Takeaways

James Tobin was a member of President Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisers.He developed portfolio selection theory and the "Tobin Tax."Tobin received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1981.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Early Life and Education  

James Tobin was born on March 5, 1918, in Champaign, Ilinois. He earned both a bachelor's and master's degree from Harvard University.



After his graduation in 1940, Tobin began his career at the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply in Washington, D.C. During World War II, he served in the United States Navy.



Tobin returned to Harvard to earn a Ph.D. in economics in 1947 and joined the faculty at Yale University in 1950 until his retirement in 1988.


   Public Service  

Applying the study of economics to real-world problems guided James Tobin’s work throughout his career and he once noted, “Economics has always been a policy-oriented subject. Unless it is applied to the urgent policy issues of the day, it will become a sterile exercise, without use or interest."



In 1961, President Kennedy invited James Tobin to serve as one of three economists on his Council of Economic Advisers. The group aided the executive branch on economic policy issues and published the 1962 Economic Report, a statement of stabilization and growth policies known as the “new economics”.



In addition to his work with the Kennedy Administration, Tobin served as an academic consultant to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury Department.


   Portfolio Selection Theory  

James Tobin received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1981 for his analysis of financial markets and their relations to expenditure decisions, employment, production, and prices.



His portfolio selection theory defines how financial markets influence the investment decisions of households and businesses based on weighted risks and expected rates of return. Tobin emphasized that these microeconomic decisions made within a home or business influence macroeconomic aggregates, such as overall consumption, employment, and inflation.


   The Tobin Tax  

James Tobin developed the "Tobin Tax" in response to the collapse of the Bretton Woods agreement in 1971. Volatile floating currency exchange rates replaced fixed currency exchange rates once based on the U.S. dollar's link to a gold standard.



As money moved quickly in an environment of varying rates, Tobin proposed to reduce this volatility with a small tax levied on every transaction of exchange from one currency to another. This tax would discourage short-term currency speculation and cushion the effect of such speculation on small developing economies, which could not compete with large financial institutions.



The "Tobin Tax" was not formally implemented or used until after James Tobin's death in 2002 and Tobin's original purpose of halting currency speculation has been eclipsed by ideas of using the tax to raise revenue for economic and social development internationally.




What Is Tobin's Q Ratio?
The Tobin's Q ratio was developed in 1966 by Nicholas Kaldor, an economist, and popularized by James Tobin while he was a professor at Yale University. Tobin's Q ratio defines the value of a company as its total asset value divided by its market value. 




What Is the Tobin Project?
Founded in 2005, the Tobin Project is an independent, non-profit research organization based on the work of James Tobin and pioneering research on pressing problems of the 21st century focusing on institutions of democracy, government and markets, economic inequality, and national security.




What Is the Baumol-Tobin Model?
The theory developed by William Baumol and James Tobin studies the tradeoff between the value of the liquidity provided by holding cash versus the value of the interest lost by keeping money liquid.


   The Bottom Line  

James Tobin was an American economist who received the 1981 Nobel Prize in economics. He pioneered the "Tobin Tax," the study of portfolio selection theory, and has influenced theories in economics including the Baumol-Tobin Model and the "Tobin Q."
Jan Tinbergen was a Dutch economist who won the first Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 1969, which he shared with Ragnar Frisch for their work in the development and application of dynamic models for analyzing economic processes. Tinbergen was one of the first economists to apply math to economics and is considered a pioneer in the economics field, as well as in econometrics.





Key Takeaways

Jan Tinbergen was a Dutch economist, awarded the Nobel Prize in 1969 for his work in economic modeling.Tinbergen was one of the first economists to apply math to economics and is considered a pioneer in the economics field, as well as in econometrics."Tinbergen Rule" is the idea that governments must use multiple policy instruments if they want to impact multiple policy targets."Tinbergen Norm" is a theory of his that states that a larger than five to one gap between the lowest income and the highest income will lead to serious social conflict.


   Early Life and Education  

Born in The Hague in the Netherlands in 1903, Tinbergen attended the University of Leyden and defended his Ph.D. thesis in 1929 on "Minimum Problems in Physics and Economics," a thesis that allowed him to engage a cross-disciplinary approach to his further research in mathematics, physics, economics, and politics.



He joined the Netherlands Central Bureau of Statistics, performing research on new business cycles; a position in government that he held until 1945. During that period, he also became a professor of mathematics and statistics at the University of Amsterdam and at the Netherlands School of Economics. During that time, from 1936 to 1938, Tinbergen was also a consultant to the League of Nations, filling positions in government and education simultaneously.



In 1945, he became the first director of The Netherlands Central Planning Bureau. He left this position in 1955 to focus on education and spent a year at Harvard University. He also served as an economic consultant to a host of developing nations, including the United Arab Republic, Turkey, and Venezuela.



Jan Tinbergen died where he was born, The Hague, in 1994.


   Notable Accomplishments  

Tinbergen is most noted for his contributions to econometrics and macroeconomic modeling.


  Macro-Econometrics  

Tinbergen helped develop the theory of underlying econometrics and the use of statistics to test economic theories. An innovator in macro-econometric modeling, Tinbergen developed multi-equation models of national economies that were a precursor to today's computer-driven economic forecasts.






Some of Tinbergen's most important works include Statistical Testing of Business Cycles (1938), Econometrics (1942), and Income Distribution (1975).



He produced the first comprehensive macro-econometric models, originally for the Netherlands and then for the United Kingdom and the United States. His macro-econometric models focused on business cycles and economic development. 


  Macroeconomic Policy  

Tinbergen viewed the goal of macroeconomic policy as maximizing social welfare subject to the constraints of technology, resources, and political feasibility. From his models, he also developed guidelines and recommendations for applying econometrics to policymaking. Understanding these types of models can help policymakers aim for economic targets that are related to the policy instruments they control. 



This includes the identification of targets and instruments, known as the Tinbergen rule. This is the idea that governments must use multiple policy instruments if they want to impact multiple policy targets. If policymakers have certain targets they wish to reach, they must have an equal number of instruments that they control in order to effectively direct policy towards the targets. 



Throughout his career, Tinbergen was also interested in the issues of income distribution in an economy, and the phrase "Tinbergen Norm" arose from a theory he pursued, in which a larger than five to one gap between the lowest income and the highest income will lead to serious social conflict.




What Is the Tinbergen Model?
The Tinbergen model is an education plan that stresses the importance of the value of policy variables in the specific plan. The Tinbergen model stands in contrast to the manpower requirements model, which stresses forecasting certain values for the plan year.




What Did Jan Tinbergen Do?
Jan Tinbergen was a Dutch economist who won the Nobel Prize in economic sciences. His contributions of dynamic models to economic processes greatly expanded the understanding of economic policy as a tool.




Who Coined the Term "Econometrics"?
The Norwegian economist, Ragnar Frisch, is considered to have coined the term econometrics. His work focused on developing mathematical formulas to use in economics. His use of the term "econometrics" refers to using statistics to describe economic systems.


   The Bottom Line  

Jan Tinbergen won the Nobel Prize in economics sciences due to his development of dynamic models that help with the economic process. He had a varied career, working for the government, as a professor, and economic consultant around the globe. His work on economic policy has helped economists aim for targets with the use of specific economic tools.
What Is the January Barometer?  

The term "January Barometer" refers to the belief held by some traders that the investment performance of the S&P 500 Index in January can predict its performance for the rest of the year.



For example, proponents of this view believe that if the S&P 500 rises between Jan. 1 and Jan. 31, this will foretell a positive result for the remainder of the year. Similarly, it holds that if the market fares poorly in January, it will likely perform poorly thereafter as well.





Key Takeaways

The January Barometer is a market hypothesis stating that returns in January predict those for the rest of the year.It is popular among some traders and was first set out in the Stock Trader's Almanac.The January Barometer is predominantly a U.S. phenomenon associated with the S&P 500 Index.


   Understanding the January Barometer  

The idea of the January Barometer was first devised by Yale Hirsch, creator of the Stock Trader's Almanac in 1972. However, it is still used by some traders to this day.



Traders who believe in this hypothesis may use it to try and time the market. That is, they may invest in the market only in the years when the barometer predicts that the market will rise and stay out of the market when the barometer forecasts a market pullback.



Proponents of this view will cite data showing that the January Barometer has registered only 11 errors between 1950 and 2021, giving the indicator an accuracy ratio of 84.5%. However, this phenomenon may be largely illusory. After all, from 1945 to 2021, U.S. equity markets generated a positive annual return roughly 70% of the time. Therefore, the January Barometer could just be a secondary effect of the general tendency of U.S. equities to creep higher each year, rather than a special phenomenon that can be used to improve one's market timing.



Critics of the January Barometer theory will point out that similar phenomena have not been consistently found outside of the United States and therefore that it may be a temporary anomaly specific to U.S. equity markets.





U.S. Phenomenon

The January Barometer may have a self-reinforcing character. If U.S. investors react to a strong January by investing more heavily in stocks, then this itself might cause prices to rise. If true, this could explain why the correlation between January and annual market returns is more prevalent in the U.S. than in other regions where the January Barometer theory is less well known.


   Real-World Example of the January Barometer  

In recent years, the January Barometer has had mixed results. In 2021, the S&P 500 declined by 1.1% in January but went on to gain just under 27% on the year. The results in 2020 were more ambiguous, with the S&P 500 losing 0.16% in January only to go on to a 16% rally throughout the remainder of the year. In 2019, the S&P 500 climbed by 7.87% in January and finished the year up 28.9%.




What Is the Santa Claus Rally?
Similar to the January Barometer, the Santa Claus rally was coined in 1972 by Yale Hirsch, author of the Stock Trader's Almanac. The Santa Claus rally looks for a rally during a six-session stretch beginning with the first session after Christmas and ending early in the New Year.




What Is a Sentiment Indicator?
A sentiment indicator is designed to provide insight on how a group feels about the market or economy. Economists and investors are always on the lookout for signals of what could occur in the markets or larger economy over the months ahead. The general idea is that market performance will often move in line with public sentiment. Some analysts also believe that recent performance could be used as a gauge for how a group of investors is feeling and would therefore expect the performance to continue.




What Is Seasonality?
Seasonality refers to the predictable changes that occur over the course of a year to an economy or business. It is not uncommon for certain times of the year to result in a drastic change in sales for companies within certain sectors. For example, holiday spending is often a major driver of full-year revenue growth for companies within the retail sector.


   The Bottom Line  

The January Barometer has demonstrated its staying power as a concept since it was first introduced more than 50 years ago. The statistical debate about whether the indicator is truly a good predictor of the performance of the S&P 500 Index will likely continue for decades. Regardless, the start of a New Year always presents traders with a fresh opportunity to forecast what could happen over the months ahead, and it doesn't take much of a stretch to expect that indicators such as the January Barometer will continue being part of that discussion.
What Is the January Effect?  

The January Effect is a perceived seasonal increase in stock prices during the month of January. Analysts generally attribute this rally to an increase in buying, which follows the drop in price that typically happens in December when investors, engaging in tax-loss harvesting to offset realized capital gains, prompt a sell-off.



Another possible explanation is that investors use year-end cash bonuses to purchase investments the following month. While this market anomaly has been identified in the past, the January Effect seems to have largely disappeared as its presence became widely known.



Indeed, our own look back at the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) since its 1993 inception makes one wonder how the term ever came to be used. Of the 30 years since 1993, there have been 17 winning January months (57%) and 13 losing January months (43%), making the odds of a gain only slightly higher than the flip of a coin. Further, since the start of the 2009 market rally through January 2022, January months showed eight winners vs. six losers, again a split of 57% to 43%. Given the strong rally from 2009, one might rightly expect a more pronounced number of January winners, but this is not the case.



Traders should be aware of the tenuous nature of the January Effect and instead focus on the market conditions at the time and what they suggest for the overall short-term direction of the SPDR S&P 500 ETF.





Key Takeaways

The January Effect is the perceived seasonal tendency for stocks to rise in that month.In the bigger picture, since 1938, 29 out of 30 years of gains seen in January-February resulted in average yearly S&P 500 advances of 20%.The January Effect is theorized to occur when investors sell losers in December for tax-loss harvesting, only to re-buy new positions in January.Like other market anomalies and calendar effects, the January Effect is considered by some to be evidence against the efficient markets hypothesis.More to the point, over the past 30 years, January gains have occurred 17 times (57%), while losing January months numbered 13 (43%), barely better than the flip of a coin.


   Understanding the January Effect  

The January Effect is a hypothesis, and like all calendar-related effects, it suggests that the markets as a whole are inefficient, as efficient markets would naturally make this effect non-existent. The January Effect seems to affect small caps more than mid-caps or large caps because they are less liquid.



Since the beginning of the 20th century, the data suggests that these asset classes have outperformed the overall market in January, especially toward the middle of the month. Investment banker Sidney Wachtel first noticed this effect in 1942. This historical trend, however, has been less pronounced in recent years because the markets seem to have adjusted for it.



Another reason analysts consider the January Effect less important as of 2022 is that more people are using tax-sheltered retirement plans and therefore have no reason to sell at the end of the year for a tax loss.






The efficient market hypothesis states that share prices reflect all the information that is available to the market. Based on the theory, since all market participants have access to the same information, outperforming the market through stock selection or market timing is not feasible. The efficient market hypothesis is an argument against seasonal phenomena like the January Effect.


   January Effect Explanations  

Beyond tax-loss harvesting and repurchases, as well as investors putting cash bonuses into the market, another explanation for the January Effect has to do with investor psychology. Some investors believe that January is the best month to begin an investment program or perhaps are following through on a New Year's resolution to begin investing for the future.



Others have posited that mutual fund managers purchase stocks of top performers at the end of the year and eliminate questionable losers for the sake of appearance in their year-end reports, an activity known as "window dressing." This is unlikely, however, as the buying and selling would primarily affect large caps.



Year-end sell-offs also attract buyers interested in the lower prices, knowing that the dips are not based on company fundamentals. On a large scale, this can drive prices higher in January.


   Studies and Criticism  

An ex-Director from the Vanguard Group, Burton Malkiel, the author of A Random Walk Down Wall Street, has criticized the January Effect, stating that such seasonal anomalies don't provide investors with any reliable opportunities. He also suggests that the January Effect is so small that the transaction costs needed to exploit it essentially make it unprofitable. It has also been suggested that enough people know about the January Effect that it has become priced into the market, nullifying it altogether.



Other researchers have found that January Effect still exists, but only for smaller-cap stocks, owing to a lack of liquidity and interest from investors.




What Is the January Effect in the Stock Market?
The January Effect is a purported market anomaly whereby stock prices regularly tend to rise in the first month of the year. Actual evidence of the January Effect is small, with many scholars arguing that it does not really exist. Indeed, a look back over the past 30 years, since the inception of the S&P 500 ETF (SPY), shows only 17 winning months vs. 13 losing months, or a 57-43% split, i.e., not much better than the flip of a coin.




Can You Make Money Exploiting the January Effect?
Unlikely. Even if the January Effect were real (it's probably not) and markets were to rise uncharacteristically each January, the fact that people may try to exploit this can undermine its fruition.




What Is the January Barometer?
The January Barometer is a folk theory of the stock market claiming that the returns experienced in January will predict the overall performance of the stock market for that year. Thus, a strong January would predict a strong bull market, and a down January would portend a bear market. Actual evidence for this effect is scant.


   The Bottom Line  

The so-called January Effect is a market theory holding that January frequently sees regular gains for the month. The evidence for this effect is tenuous at best, with the past 30 years showing a 57%/43% split between winning months and losing months, barely better than the flip of a coin.



Still, the January Effect is a relatively popular rationale used by market commentators to explain any positive gains in the month of January. They may attribute any buying in January to fresh buying after year-end tax-loss selling, although this is becoming less significant as most investors are in tax-sheltered investing plans, e.g., 401(k)s.



Traders should be cautious about blindly following the mythology of the January Effect and instead focus on the current conditions leading into the turn of the year.
What Is the Japan Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (Jasdaq)?  

The Japan Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (Jasdaq) is a stock exchange that forms part of the Japan Exchange Group (JPX).﻿﻿ It is focused on emerging venture companies and, like the Nasdaq exchange, is a fully electronic trading platform.





Key Takeaways

The Jasdaq is a stock exchange in Japan that focuses on emerging companies. It is one of several subsidiaries of Japan Exchange Group.The Jasdaq traces its origins to an OTC platform founded in 1963.﻿﻿The Jasdaq's listing requirements are less stringent than the first or second sections of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.﻿﻿


   How the Jasdaq Works  

The precursor to the Jasdaq was an over-the-counter stock trading platform created by the Japan Securities Dealers Association in 1963. In 1991, this system was converted to an electronic market and rebranded as the Jasdaq Securities Exchange in 2004. This transition was pivotal for the Jasdaq, as it marked its formal recognition as a stock exchange. Prior to 2004, the Jasdaq facilitated OTC trades but did not hold a formal stock exchange license from the government.﻿﻿﻿



Today, the Jasdaq forms part of a robust ecosystem of stock exchanges operating in Japan, which include the Osaka Securities Exchange (OSE), the Nagoya Stock Exchange, the Sapporo Stock Exchange, the Fukuoka Stock Exchange, and the so-called Mothers exchange, which focuses on small and emerging companies and owes its name to the phrase "Market of the high-growth and emerging stocks."



As has been true in many countries, Japan's stock exchanges have undergone a series of consolidations in recent years. The OSE acquired the Jasdaq in 2010.﻿﻿﻿﻿In 2013, the OSE and Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) merged to form the Japan Exchange Group.﻿﻿﻿﻿ Today, the JPX is the world's third largest exchange behind the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq.﻿﻿﻿


   Real World Example of the Jasdaq  

Companies must meet several criteria to list on a stock exchange in Japan, including a minimum number of shareholders, market capitalization, net assets and years of operation. Because of its focus on early and venture-stage businesses, the Jasdaq's listing requirements are more lenient than the TSE, which hosts more established businesses.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Within the JPX, there are four sections: the TSE First Section, the TSE Second Section, the Jasdaq, and the Mothers exchange. Among these, the TSE First Section has the strictest listing criteria, followed by the TSE Second Section. The Jasdaq and Mothers exchanges are more accommodating in their listing requirements.﻿﻿﻿﻿
What Is the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR)  

The Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR) is a Japanese financial services company that provides credit ratings on the corporate debt of Japanese companies and foreign bond issuers. The entity also publishes a variety of financial and economic information and serves as a guide for counterparty credit risk.





Key Takeaways

The Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR) is Japan's primary credit rating agency, providing ratings on corporate and financial bond issuers in Japan.JCR also provides rating guidance on over 200 foreign issuers.In addition to providing rating guidance, JCR is a source of economic and financial research, which it publishes regularly.JCR provides rating guidance for over 60% of Japan's 1,000 publicly rated corporate issuers and over 70% of its financial industry.JCR was officially registered in the U.S. as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization in 2007 and was certified in the European Union in 2011.JCR uses two rating scales; one long term and one short term, with the long-term rating scale functioning similarly to those of S&P's and Moody's.JCR has been expanding its global network, making alliances with foreign credit rating agencies as well as being approved as a credit rating agency in a variety of countries.


   Understanding the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR)  

The Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR) is one of Japan’s key bond rating agencies and rates the vast majority of Japanese corporate debt, including asset-backed securities. It provides a number of services, including rating debt securities of all types, as well as publishing financial market, economic, and industry research, and providing data as a service. JCR was founded in April 1985.



The JCR has witnessed many financial crises since it was founded in 1985, including the Japanese real estate bubble, the Asian financial crisis, the 2007-08 financial crisis, the European sovereign debt crisis, and the East Japan Tsunami, and considers itself to be an expert in credit risk analysis.



Over the years, JCR has been expanding its global network, building relationships with many different countries, and building alliances with different organizations, such as the Association of Credit Rating Agencies in Asia (ACRAA), VIS in Pakistan, CARE Ratings in India, HR Ratings in Mexico, and MARC in Malaysia.


   Responsibilities of the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR)  

JCR provides rating guidance for over 60% of approximately 1,000 publicly rated issuers in Japan. In addition, JCR provides rating coverage for over 70% of the financial industry in Japan and is also dominant in the medical and educational sectors.



JCR has responded to globalization and bond issuers’ and investors’ demand for international rating agencies. Its ratings are used in major overseas markets like the U.S., Europe, Turkey, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Thailand, and it has assigned credit ratings for more than 200 foreign issuers. The JCR was officially registered in the U.S. as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization in 2007 and was certified in the European Union in 2011.



Some of the additional services that JCR provides for its clients include networking, private credit assessment, credit risk estimation modeling, green and social financial evaluation, seminars and training, economy and industry information, and research and knowledge sharing.



The company also provides details on all of its rating methodologies, detailing its processes and policy on its website. It breaks down its rating methodologies into five different groups, which are corporates, financial institutions, the public sector, structured finance, and sovereigns and supranationals.


   Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR) Rating Scales  

JCR has two rating scales that it uses to rate debt issuances: a long-term rating scale and a short-term rating scale. The long-term rating scale is similar to that of the rating scales used by western credit rating agencies, such as S&P and Moody's.



The long-term rating scale ranges from AAA to D, with AAA signifying the highest level of quality and D signifying default. For the rating symbols between AA and B, a plus or minus may be attached to indicate the issuers standing within that rating.



JCR's short-term rating scale ranges from J-1 to J-3, and below that there are two more ratings: NJ and D. D in this instance also indicate default whereas J-1 is the highest level of quality.
What Is a Japan ETF?  

The term Japan ETF refers to an exchange-traded fund (ETF) that invests the majority of its assets in Japanese assets that trade on local stock exchanges. These ETFs are diversified investments that have a low initial investment requirement and lower costs. Just like company stock. Japan ETFs trade on stock exchanges. They provide investors access to the Japanese economy through currency, equity, and fixed-income markets. Investors can choose from more than a dozen options that trade on U.S. stock exchanges.





Key Takeaways

A Japan ETF is an exchange-traded fund that invests in Japanese assets that trade on local stock exchanges.Like other ETFs, shares trade on stock exchanges just like corporate stock.Japan is home to a number of major indices tracked by ETFs, as well as others that track small- and mid-cap equity strategies and currencies.Investors can gain access to the Japanese market and economy by purchasing ETF shares rather than stocks or other securities.The market for Japan ETFs is smaller when compared to others like the U.S.


   How Japan ETFs Work  

Investing in foreign stock markets was something only sophisticated traders could ever hope to achieve in the past. But average investors have been able to get into the market, giving them the chance to profit from the global shifts in capital. This movement of money has a lot to do with the advance of exchange-traded funds.



ETFs pool assets from investors who have similar goals. They are listed on exchanges and trade throughout the day just like ordinary stocks. They strive to replicate the performance of a broad equity market, specific sector, or trend by mirroring the holdings of a designated index. This is a hypothetical portfolio of securities representing a particular market or a segment of it.



Japan ETFs provide international investors with an easy way to gain exposure to the country without buying individual stocks and placing all their eggs in one basket. These vehicles are managed passively around a broad underlying index, such as the MSCI Japan Index, whose constituents cover approximately 85% of the free float-adjusted market capitalization in the country.



Investors can choose from 21 Japan ETFs that trade on U.S. stock exchanges. Together, they hold combined assets of about $20 billion. These ETFs track eight major indices on Japan's stock market. This is in addition to those that track small- and mid-cap investment strategies and currencies.


   Special Considerations  

Japan is an advanced economy with a large equity market. That means there are plenty of ETFs to choose from, including more exotic ones that focus exclusively on the country’s smaller, up-and-coming companies, dividends, or value stocks. As with several of the larger, more liquid ETFs, some Japan ETFs can be sold short and are even accessible through listed options.



Having said that, many investors underestimate the effects that currency fluctuations can have on total returns. If the U.S. dollar rises in value against the Japanese yen (JPY), then an unhedged ETF will suffer currency losses that can offset any gains in the underlying Japanese stock market.



During periods of dollar strength, many investors found currency risk undesirable, paving the way for a rise in a category of ETFs that hedge out currency risk. Their goal is to give investors a return closer to the local currency returns of a country’s major stock market indexes.






The performance of a Japan ETF doesn't correlate to the performance of the underlying index when it's measured in U.S. dollars. Instead, it's the exchange rate change between the yen and the dollar that must be taken into consideration. 


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Japan ETFs  

There's no doubt that investing in Japan ETFs allows investors to diversify their holdings and get into a new market. But there are other benefits to trading shares in these investments. Similarly, there are downsides to adding these vehicles to an investment portfolio. We've listed some of the key pros and cons associated with Japan ETFs below.


  Advantages  

The Japan Exchange Group, which owns the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), is the largest and most progressive stock exchange in the Asia Pacific by market cap. This makes the country a frequent source of investor focus and attention. Japan ETFs allow for a single diversified investment in the country, while also making a bet on the strength of the yen versus the dollar.



Japan popped back onto investors' radars ever since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe first took office in 2012. Abe steadily introduced a series of shareholder-friendly reforms, encouraging Japan Inc. to stop hoarding cash and start increasing dividends and stock repurchases. He also targeted negative interest rates, a controversial policy designed to stimulate spending and depreciate the yen. Since Japanese companies are big exporters, a devalued currency gives them a competitive edge.



Though widely talked about, Abenomics hasn’t been an overnight success. These economic policies have, however, made Japan a hot topic in investment circles and shone the light on it being home to some of the best companies and brands in the world.


  Disadvantages  

Abenomics failed to reenergize the Japanese economy as much as first hoped. The country has a fair number of issues, including decades of deflation, an aging population, and high levels of debt.



Japan's market is also more limited than others—notably, the U.S. ETF market—both in size and variety. This difference could be attributable to the fee structure for the Asian market in general. In the U.S., the trend has been toward a fee-only fiduciary model for many investments. In Asia, on the other hand, many investment products continue to be sold by agents on commission.





Pros

Provide access to a large and progressive market
Open investors up to Japanese companies, which have competitive edge
Give investors access to major companies and brands



Cons

Are susceptible to economic risks
Have access to a smaller market (size and variety)
Asia-focused ETFs tend to be commission based





   Example of a Japan ETF  

The iShares MSCI Japan ETF (EWJ) is perhaps the best-known ETF in this category. The fund aims to produce investment results that correspond to the MSCI Japan Index using a market capitalization-weighted method. In other words, a company’s representation is based on its size.



iShares’ Japan ETF and the MSCI Japan Index are very similar, ensuring little tracking error. Both are led by Toyota (TM), which accounts for over 5% of total assets, consisting mainly of industrials, consumer discretionary, financials, and technology stocks.
What Is Japan Inc.?  

Japan, Inc. is a descriptor for that country’s modern, highly centralized economic system and development strategy of export-led growth. In a sense, Japan since the 1980s has been defined by a corporate culture of capitalism and export profits. Despite its rapid growth of corporatism, the country experienced prolonged periods of economic stagnation with low GDP growth and low interest rates.





Key Takeaways

Japan, Inc. describes Japan's conversion into a corporate capitalist culture from the 1970s and 1980s until the 1990s.This culture is also defined by a centralized economic system encouraged by the government and central bank.Despite Japan, Inc., the country fell into a "lost decade" in the 1990s as it experienced sluggish economic growth and periods of deflation.


   The Basics of Japan Inc.  

Japan, Inc. gained notoriety in the 1980s when western perception was that the alliance of Japan's government bureaucrats and corporations established and implemented unfair trade policies. However, Japan's prolonged 1990s recession diminished the reputation and power of Japan Inc. Since then, Japan has undergone major changes that made the Japan Inc. stereotype less prominent in the country's business culture.



A primary feature of Japan, Inc. was the key role of Japan's trade ministry, which guided Japan's development in the postwar years in a strategy of export-led growth, known as the Japanese Miracle. This growth was due to American investment immediately after the war and government regulation of the economy. The Japanese government restricted imports and promoted exports at the same time as the Bank of Japan (BoJ) undertook aggressive lending to companies to stimulate private investment. Close collaboration between corporate executives and government officials enabled the government to create winners. Another major characteristic of Japan Inc. was institutionalized business alliances among companies, known as keiretsu, which dominated Japan’s economic activity. The Japanese miracle created Japan, Inc. and lasted until the 1991 Japanese financial crisis.


   Japan Inc. to Japan in Crisis  

Japan produced the second-largest gross national product (GNP) after the United States in the 1970s, and by the late 1980s, ranked first in GNP per capita worldwide. In the early 1990s its economy stalled, causing what is known as Japan’s lost decade. It was largely due to speculation during a boom cycle.



Record-low interest rates ignited the stock market and real estate speculation, which inflated valuations in the 1980s. The government unsuccessfully attempted to stimulate the economy through public works projects. And, the BOJ was slow to intervene, which may have instigated the crisis. Japan's Finance Ministry finally raised interest rates to stem speculation, which caused a stock market crash and debt crisis when borrowers defaulted on debt backed by speculative assets. This caused a banking crisis that led to consolidation and government bailouts.



During the lost decade, the economy stagnated amid low growth and deflation, with the stock markets near record lows and the property market remaining below pre-boom levels. Amid the crisis, Japanese consumers saved more and spent less, which reduced aggregate demand and produced deflation. Consumers further conserved money, resulting in a deflationary spiral. The country’s aging population along with Japan’s hesitance to raise the retirement age and increase taxes together with unrealistic monetary policy also were blamed for the lost decade.
What Is a Japanese Government Bond (JGB)?  

A Japanese Government Bond (JGB) is a bond issued by the government of Japan. The government pays interest on the bond until the maturity date. At the maturity date, the full price of the bond is returned to the bondholder. Japanese government bonds play a key role in the financial securities market in Japan.





Key Takeaways

Japanese government bonds (JGBs) are bonds issued by the Japanese government and have become a key part of the country's central bank efforts to boost inflation.There are three key types of JGBs—general bonds, Fiscal Investment and Loan Program bonds, and subsidy bonds.JGBs are similar to U.S. Treasuries in that they are backed by the national government and low-risk.


   Understanding Japanese Government Bonds (JGBs)  

Japanese government bonds (JGBs) have various maturities ranging from 2 years to 40 years. Fixed coupon payments are determined at the time of issuance and are paid on a semi-annual basis until the security matures.



There are four kinds of Japanese government bonds (JGBs):



General bonds, such as construction bonds and debt financing bonds.
Fiscal Investment and Loan Program (FILP) bonds, which can be used to raise funds for the investment of the Fiscal Loan Fund.
Reconstruction bonds.
Refunding bonds.


   Special Considerations  

A decline in liquidity in the JGB market has been observed in recent years due to the aggressive monetary actions of the central bank—the Bank of Japan (BoJ). In 2013, the Bank of Japan began buying up billions of dollars of Japanese government bonds, flooding the economy with cash in an effort to propel the country’s low annual inflation rate toward its 2% target. To keep the yield on ten-year JGBs close to zero, a rise in the yield of these bonds triggers a buy action from the BoJ.



As of 2020, the central bank owns over 48% of Japanese government bonds. There is an inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices, which are dictated by supply and demand in the markets. Heavy buying of JGBs increases the demand for the bonds, which leads to an increase in the price of the bonds. The price increase forces down the bond yield, an essential element of the central bank’s ultra-loose yield curve control (YCC) policy, which was designed to help increase the profits that Japanese banks could earn from lending money.



The Bank of Japan implemented the yield curve control in 2016 in an effort to keep the yield on its ten-year JGB at zero and to steepen the yield curve. The yield curve steepens when the spread between short-term interest rates, which are negative in Japan, and long-term rates increase. The wider spread in interest rates creates opportunities to arbitrage profits, which is advantageous for banks in Japan.



In 2021, the Bank of Japan reduced its bond-buying and began announcing purchases on a quarterly, rather than a monthly, schedule. Reportedly this happened because the policy of aggressively targeting 0% yields had led to stagnant trading in the bond market. By reducing intervention in the bond market, the bank hoped to encourage more active trading.


   Japanese Government Bonds (JGBs) vs. U.S. Treasuries  

Japanese government bonds (JGBs) are very much like U.S. Treasury securities. They are fully backed by the Japanese government, making them a very popular investment among low-risk investors and a useful investment among high-risk investors as a way to balance the risk factor of their portfolios. Like U.S. savings bonds, they have high levels of credit and liquidity, which further adds to their popularity. Furthermore, the price and yield at which JGBs trade is used as a benchmark against which other, riskier debt in the country is valued.

What Is JPY (Japanese Yen)?  

JPY is the abbreviation for the Japanese yen, the currency of Japan. The yen is often represented with a symbol that looks like the capital letter Y with two horizontal dashes through the center: ¥.





Key Takeaways

The Japanese yen is the world's third-most traded currency, behind the U.S. dollar and the euro.The yen, usually a safe haven during times of market stress, dropped to 24-year lows against the dollar in mid-2022.The yen's drop was fueled by the refusal of the Bank of Japan (BoJ) to follow other central banks in raising interest rates.The BoJ has set a 2% inflation target for Japan following decades of economically damaging deflation.


   Understanding JPY (Japanese Yen)  

The Japanese yen is the third-most traded currency in the foreign exchange market after the U.S. dollar (USD) and the euro. The yen figured in trades accounting for 16.8% of foreign currency trading turnover in a 2019 survey, compared with more than 88.3% for the dollar and 32.3% for the euro.



The yen is also a distant third behind the U.S. dollar and the euro as the denomination of official foreign exchange reserves, with the reserves held in dollars exceeding those in yen more than 10-fold as of Q4 2021.



Japan's current account surplus stemming from its role as a major net exporter limits the accumulation of yen by foreign central banks.


   JPY Denominations  

Coins worth 1, 5, 10, 50, 100, and 500 yen are in circulation alongside ¥1,000, ¥2,000, ¥5,000, and ¥10,000 banknotes. The Japanese count sums in multiples of 10,000 yen rather than 1,000 as in the West with U.S. dollars or euros.



Some Japanese yen banknote denominations are scheduled for a redesign by 2024. The new 10,000 yen note is to feature Eiichi Shibusawa, a Japanese industrialist in the 19th and early 20th centuries known as the "father of Japanese capitalism." The 5,000 yen note will feature Umeko Tsuda, who founded Tsuda University in Tokyo, pioneering women's education. The new 1,000 yen note will honor the medical scientist Shibasaburo Kitasato. The new bills will incorporate 3D holograms.


   History of the Japanese Yen  

The yen's name is a derivative of “en,” the Japanese term for circle, or round object that itself is derived from "yuan," a Chinese term for imported silver coins. The Meiji government adopted the yen in 1871, replacing the metal coinage of the Tokugawa shogunate that preceded it as well as the patchwork of paper scrip issued by many of the country's feudal lords.



The Bank of Japan (BoJ) was created in 1882 as a central bank, and granted sole power to issue currency in 1884, producing its first yen banknote the following year. After a period of steady devaluation against the Canadian and U.S. dollars, Japan followed the U.S. and Canada by adopting the gold standard in 1897.



World War II destroyed the value of the yen, and U.S. occupation authorities after the war imposed a complex web of regulated exchange rates while steadily depreciating the yen against the dollar amid rapid inflation. The yen's value was pegged to the dollar in 1949 but allowed to float in 1973 following the collapse of the Bretton Woods system of fixed currency exchange rates.



The 1985 Plaza Accord agreement led to the managed depreciation of the U.S. dollar that more than doubled the value of the Japanese yen against the dollar by 1988, from ¥239 to ¥123 per $1.



After decades of ensuing deflation, the BoJ has set a 2% inflation target and pursued an aggressive quantitative easing program.


   JPY's Safe Haven Status  

The Japanese yen has long been considered a safe haven. The currency often appreciates in value during periods of risk aversion in financial markets. Low domestic interest rates in Japan amid deflation have encouraged the country's financial institutions and households to seek out higher yields overseas, a tendency known as the carry trade. When such investment flows reverse in times of market stress, the yen has tended to gain on the U.S. dollar.



In mid-2022, however, the JPY slumped to a 24-year low against the U.S. dollar as the BoJ kept its policy rate near zero while the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate to fight high inflation. Rising consumer prices aggravated by the yen's decline had become a political issue in Japan ahead of national elections.





133.25

The exchange rate of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar as of Aug. 4, 2022.


   Trading Japanese Yen  

Unless you're a savvy currency trader with a strong appetite for risk, it's probably best not to get involved with the yen at any time, especially during periods when it's under pressure. Nevertheless, pros and brave amateurs can trade the yen in the global forex marketplace, which permits a great deal of position leverage and tends to reward in-depth expertise in the issues driving yen trading.



In contrast, yen ETFs offer no leverage, investing in yen-backed assets such as short-term debt and bonds. Though holding yen ETFs does expose one to potentially damaging currency risk.




How Do I Convert a Japanese Yen Value Into U.S. Dollars?
Divide the sum in Japanese yen by the yen's current exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. As of August 4, 2022, the USD/JPY exchange rate was 133.25. ¥10,000 was worth about $75.04 (10,000 divided by 136.56) at that exchange rate.




Where Is the Best Place to Buy Japanese Yen?
Some of the best places to buy Japanese yen are at a large branch of a national bank such as Chase, Bank of America, or Wells Fargo. You can also buy foreign currency including JPY at airports, although exchange outlets there are likely to feature wider buy/sell spreads as the price of the convenient location.




What Has Been Causing the Decline in the Japanese Yen?
Currency traders have been betting the Bank of Japan will keep its policy rate near zero despite rising inflation. The BoJ had acquired more than half of Japan's government bonds outstanding by June 2022 in an effort to cap long-term interest rates in order to promote growth.
What Is the Jarrow Turnbull Model?  

The Jarrow Turnbull model is one of the first reduced-form models for pricing credit risk. Developed by Robert Jarrow and Stuart Turnbull, the model utilizes multi-factor and dynamic analysis of interest rates to calculate the probability of default.





Key Takeaways

The Jarrow Turnbull Model is a credit risk model that measures how likely a borrower is to default on a loan.The model was developed by finance professors and experts Robert Jarrow and Stuart Turnbull in the 1990s.The model is a reduced-form model and differs from other credit risk models by including the impact of changing interest rates, or the cost of borrowing.Reduced-form models differ from structural credit risk modeling, which derives the probability of default from the value of a firm's assets.


   Understanding the Jarrow Turnbull Model  

Determining credit risk, the possibility of a loss resulting from a borrower's failure to repay a loan or meet contractual obligations is a highly advanced field, involving both complex math and high-octane computing.



Various models exist to help financial institutions get a better grip on whether a firm may fail to meet its financial obligations or not. Previously, it was common to use tools that examine default risk mainly by looking at a company’s capital structure.



The Jarrow Turnbull model, introduced in 1995, offered a new way to measure the likelihood of default by factoring in the impact of fluctuating interest rates, otherwise known as the cost of borrowing, as well. 






Jarrow and Turnbull’s model shows how credit investments would perform under different interest rates.


   Structural Models vs. Reduced-Form Models  

Reduced-form models are one of two approaches to credit risk modeling, the other being structural. Structural models assume that the modeler has complete knowledge of a company’s assets and liabilities, leading to a predictable default time.



Structural models, often called "Merton" models, after the Nobel Laureate academic Robert C. Merton, are single-period models that derive their probability of default from the random variations in the unobservable value of a firm's assets. Under this model, default risks occurring at the maturing date if, at that stage, the value of a company’s assets fall below its outstanding debt.






Merton's structural credit model was first offered by quantitative credit analysis tools provider KMV LLC, which was acquired by Moody's Investors Service in 2002, in the early 1990s.



Reduced-form models, on the other hand, take the view that the modeler is in the dark about the company's financial condition. These models treat defaulting as an unexpected event that can be governed by a multitude of different factors going on in the market.



Because structural models are rather sensitive to the many assumptions underlying their design, Jarrow concluded that for pricing and hedging, reduced-form models are the preferred methodology.


   Special Considerations  

Most banks and credit rating agencies use a combination of structural and reduced-form models, as well as proprietary variants, to assess credit risk. Structural models offer the built-in advantage of offering a link between the credit quality of a firm and the firm’s economic and financial conditions established in Merton’s model.



Meanwhile, the Jarrow Turnbull reduced-form models utilize some of the same information but account for certain market parameters, as well as knowledge of a firm’s financial condition at a point in time.
Billionaires play an outsized role in shaping the global economy, politics, and philanthropy. Forbes puts the number of billionaires in the world at 2,640 in 2023. The wealthiest among them is Elon Musk; CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, and owner of X (formerly Twitter).



The individuals on this list belong to an even more exclusive club and wield still more power. Many are founders of technology giants, with much of their wealth still invested in the companies they started.



These billionaires can, however, still borrow against that wealth to avoid selling stock, deferring (or eliminating for heirs) taxes on unrealized capital gains in the process. Multi-billionaires can also take advantage of a panoply of tax deductions to offset reported income, leaving some on this list paying no income tax in recent years.



With so much of their wealth in publicly traded stocks, the net worth of the richest fluctuates along with the market valuations of the companies they own. Below are the 10 wealthiest people on the planet, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. All figures are current as of Sept. 1, 2023.





Key Takeaways

Elon Musk; CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, and owner of X, is the richest person and the richest man in the world with a net worth of $235 billion.After Musk is the chairman of LVMH, Bernard Arnault.Other billionaires with some of the largest net worths include Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, Microsoft's Bill Gates, and Oracle's Larry Ellison.Eight of the top 10 billionaires made their fortunes in technology, with Arnault and Berkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett being the exceptions.


   1. Elon Musk  

Age: 52Residence: United StatesCo-founder and CEO: TeslaNet Worth: $235 billionTesla Ownership Stake: 13% ($106 billion)X Ownership Stake: 79% ($8.8 billion)Other Assets: Space Exploration Technologies ($53.2 billion private asset), The Boring Company ($3.33 billion private asset)



Elon Musk is the richest man in the world. He was born in South Africa and attended a university in Canada before transferring to the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned bachelor's degrees in physics and economics. Two days after enrolling in a graduate physics program at Stanford University, Musk deferred attendance to launch Zip2, one of the earliest online navigation services. He reinvested a portion of the proceeds from this startup to create X.com, the online payment system that was sold to eBay (EBAY) and ultimately became PayPal Holdings (PYPL).



In 2004, Musk became a major funder of Tesla Motors (now Tesla), which led to his current position as CEO of the electric vehicle company. In addition to its line of electric automobiles, Tesla produces energy storage devices, automobile accessories, and, through its acquisition of SolarCity in 2016, solar power systems. Musk is also CEO and chief engineer of Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX), a developer of space launch rockets.












Saul Martinez / Getty Images



In December 2020, Tesla joined the S&P 500, becoming the largest company added, and in January 2021, Musk became the richest person in the world—a title that has fluctuated alongside the value of Tesla.In April 2022, Musk began a campaign to take X private, which culminated in a $44 billion buyout. Musk planned to fund the deal with $21 billion of his own capital. In the run-up to the buyout announcement, Musk sold 9.6 million shares of Tesla, valued at roughly $8.5 billion.



In July 2022, Musk decided to back out of the buyout. The company filed a lawsuit against Musk to force the buyout to go through. Musk countersued the company but then reversed course and declared he was willing to buy it after all. The deal officially closed in October 2022, giving him a 79% stake in the company.


   2. Bernard Arnault  

Age: 74
Residence: France
CEO and Chair: LVMH (LVMUY)
Net Worth: $186 billion
Christian Dior Ownership Stake: 97.5% ($145 billion total)
Other Assets: Moelis & Company equity ($28.8 billion public asset) and $13 billion in cash



French national Bernard Arnault is the chair and CEO of LVMH, the world’s largest luxury goods company. LVMH brands include Louis Vuitton, Hennessey, Marc Jacobs, and Sephora.



Most of Arnault's wealth comes from his massive stake in Christian Dior SE, the holding company that controls 41.4% of LVMH. His shares in Christian Dior SE, plus an additional 6.2% in LVMH, are held through his family-owned holding company, Groupe Familial Arnault.












Christophe Morin / Getty Images



An engineer by training, Arnault first showed his business acumen while working for his father’s construction firm, Ferret-Savinel, taking charge of the company in 1971. He converted Ferret-Savinel to a real estate company named Férinel Inc. in 1979.



Arnault remained Férinel's chair for another six years, until he acquired and reorganized luxury goods maker Financière Agache in 1984, eventually selling all its holdings other than Christian Dior and Le Bon Marché. He was invited to invest in LVMH in 1987 and became the majority shareholder, chair of the board, and CEO of the company two years later.


   3. Jeff Bezos  

Age: 59
Residence: United States
Founder and Executive Chair: Amazon (AMZN)
Net Worth: $162 billion
Amazon Ownership Stake: 10% ($137 billion)
Other Assets: Blue Origin ($11.2 billion private asset), The Washington Post ($250 million private asset), Koru ($500 million private asset), and $13.8 billion in cash



In 1994, Jeff Bezos founded Amazon.com in a garage in Seattle, shortly after he resigned from the hedge fund giant D.E. Shaw. He had originally pitched the idea of an online bookstore to his former boss David E. Shaw, who wasn’t interested.



Though Amazon originally started out selling books, it has since morphed into a one-stop shop for everything under the sun and is expected to overtake Walmart as the world’s largest retailer by 2024. Amazon's pattern of constant diversification is evident in some of its unexpected expansions, which include acquiring Whole Foods in 2017 and entering the pharmacy business the same year.












Alex Wong / Getty Images



Bezos owned as much as 16% of Amazon in 2019 before transferring 4% to his former wife, MacKenzie Scott, as part of their divorce proceedings. In 2020, Amazon’s share price jumped 76% on the heightened demand for online shopping amid the COVID-19 pandemic. On July 5, 2021, Bezos stepped down as CEO of the e-commerce giant, becoming its executive chair.



Bezos originally took Amazon public in 1997 and went on to become the first man since Bill Gates in 1999 to achieve a net worth of more than $100 billion. Bezos’ other projects include aerospace company Blue Origin, The Washington Post (which he purchased in 2013), and the 10,000-year clock—also known as the Long Now.



On July 20, 2021, Bezos, his brother Mark, aviation pioneer Wally Funk, and Dutch student Oliver Daemen completed Blue Origin's first successful crewed flight, reaching an altitude of more than 66 miles before landing safely. Bezos' wealth peaked at $211 billion in the same month.



In 2023, he paid $500 million for the superyacht, Koru.


   4. Larry Ellison  

Age: 79
Residence: United States
Co-founder, Chair, and CTO: Oracle (ORCL)
Net Worth: $134 billion
Oracle Ownership Stake: 42%+ ($101 billion)
Other Assets: Tesla equity ($11.6 billion public asset), $21.2 billion in cash



Larry Ellison was born in New York City to a 19-year-old single mother. After dropping out of the University of Chicago in 1966, Ellison moved to California and worked as a computer programmer. In 1973, he joined the electronics company Ampex, where he met future partners Ed Oates and Bob Miner. Three years later, Ellison moved to Precision Instruments, serving as the company’s vice president of research and development.



In 1977, Ellison founded Software Development Laboratories alongside Oates and Miner. Two years later, the company released Oracle, the first commercial relational database program to use Structured Query Language. The database program proved so popular that SDL would change its name to Oracle Systems Corporation in 1982. Ellison gave up the CEO role at Oracle in 2014 after 37 years. He joined Tesla's board in December 2018 and stepped down in June 2022.












Justin Sullivan / Getty Images



Oracle is the world's second-largest software company, providing a wide variety of cloud computing programs as well as Java and Linux code and the Oracle Exadata computing platform. Oracle has acquired numerous large companies over its history, such as Sun Microsystems and Cerner.



Ellison has focused his philanthropy on medical research. In 2016, he gave $200 million to the University of Southern California for a new cancer research center. Ellison backed the Oracle Team USA sailing team, which won the America's Cup racing series in 2010 and 2013.


   5. Bill Gates  

Age: 67
Residence: United States
Co-founder: Microsoft (MSFT)
Net Worth: $129 billion
Microsoft Ownership Stake: 1.4% ($21.2 billion)
Other Assets: $63.3 billion in cash and billions over multiple other companies



While attending Harvard University in 1975, Bill Gates went to work alongside his childhood friend Paul Allen to develop new software for the original microcomputers. Following this project’s success, Gates dropped out of Harvard during his junior year and founded Microsoft with Allen.



The largest software company in the world, Microsoft, also produces a line of personal computers, provides email services through its exchange server, and sells video game systems and associated game devices. It has recently invested heavily in cloud services.



Gates shifted from the company's CEO to the role of board chair in 2008. He joined Berkshire Hathaway’s board in 2004. He stepped down from both boards on March 13, 2020.












Jack Taylor / Getty Images



Bill Gates has much of his net worth in Cascade Investment LLC. Cascade is a privately-held investment vehicle that owns a variety of stocks including Canadian National Railway (CNR), Deere (DE), and Republic Services (RSG), as well as private investments in real estate and energy.


   6. Larry Page  

Age: 50
Residence: United States
Co-founder and Board Member: Alphabet (GOOG)
Net Worth: $123 billion
Alphabet Ownership Stake: 6% ($106.6 billion total)
Other Assets: $16.1 billion in cash



Like several of the tech billionaires on this list, Larry Page embarked on his path to fame and fortune in a college dorm room. While attending Stanford University in 1995, Page and his friend Sergey Brin came up with the idea of improving Internet data extraction. The duo devised a new search engine technology they dubbed Backrub after its ability to assess links to a page.



From there, Page and Brin went on to found Google in 1998, with Page serving as CEO of the company until 2001, and again between 2011 and 2019.



Google is the world's dominant Internet search engine, accounting for more than 92% of global search requests. In 2006, the company purchased YouTube, the top platform for user-submitted videos.












Justin Sullivan / Getty Images



After acquiring Android in 2005, Google released the Android mobile phone operating system in 2008. Google reorganized in 2015, becoming a subsidiary of Alphabet, a holding company.Page was among early investors in Planetary Resources, a space exploration and asteroid-mining company. Established in 2009, the company was acquired by blockchain firm ConsenSys in 2018 amid funding problems. He has also shown an interest in flying car companies, investing in both Kitty Hawk and Opener.



Shares of Google soared almost 50% in 2021, moving Page and Brin up the billionaire list. Page's net worth went from just below $52 billion in March 2020 to the current $86.9 billion.


   7. Warren Buffett  

Age: 93
Residence: United States
CEO: Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A)
Net Worth: $121 billion
Berkshire Hathaway Ownership Stake: 15% ($119 billion)
Other Assets: $1.28 billion in cash



The most famous living value investor, Warren Buffett filed his first tax return in 1944 at age 14, declaring earnings from his boyhood paper route. He first bought shares in a textile company called Berkshire Hathaway in 1962, becoming the majority shareholder by 1965. Buffett expanded the company's holdings to insurance and other investments in 1967.



Widely known as the Oracle of Omaha, Buffett is a buy-and-hold investor who built his fortune by acquiring undervalued companies. More recently, Berkshire Hathaway has invested in large, well-known companies. Its portfolio of wholly owned subsidiaries includes interests in insurance, energy distribution, and railroads as well as consumer products.



Buffett is a notable Bitcoin skeptic.












Alex Wong / Getty Images



Buffett has dedicated much of his wealth to philanthropy. Between 2006 and 2020, he gave away $41 billion—mostly to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and his children’s charities. Buffett launched the Giving Pledge alongside Bill Gates in 2010.



Now 92 years old, Buffett still serves as CEO, but in 2021 he stated that his likely successor would be Gregory Abel, head of Berkshire’s non-insurance operations.


   8. Sergey Brin  

Age: 50
Residence: United States
Co-founder and Board Member: Alphabet (GOOG)
Net Worth: $113 billion
Alphabet Ownership Stake: 6% ($100.2 billion total)
Other Assets: $16.2 billion in cash



Sergey Brin was born in Moscow, Russia, moving to the U.S. with his family when he was six in 1979. After co-founding Google with Larry Page in 1998, Brin became Google's president of technology when Eric Schmidt took over as CEO in 2001. He held the same post at the Alphabet holding company after it was established in 2015, stepping down in 2019 when Sundar Pichai took over as CEO.















Getty Images, Kelly Sullivan / Stringer.



In addition to its dominant internet search engine, Google offers a suite of online tools and services known as Google Workspace, which includes Gmail, Google Drive, Google Calendar, Google Meet, Google Chat, Google Docs, Google Sheets, Google Slides, and more. Google also offers a variety of electronic devices, including Pixel smartphones, computers, and tablets, Nest smart home devices, and the Stadia gaming platform.



Brin has donated millions of dollars to Parkinson’s disease research, partnering with The Michael J. Fox Foundation.


   9. Steve Ballmer  

Age: 67Residence: United StatesOwner: Los Angeles ClippersNet Worth: $114 billionMicrosoft Ownership Stake: 4% ($105 billion total)Other Assets: Los Angeles Clippers ($3.73 billion private asset), The Forum ($400 million private asset), Intuit Dome ($2 billion private asset), $3.35 billion in cash















Steven Ferdman / Getty Images.



Steve Ballmer joined Microsoft in 1980 after Bill Gates convinced him to drop out of Stanford University's MBA program. He was Microsoft's 30th employee. Ballmer went on to succeed Gates as Microsoft CEO in 2000. He held the position until stepping down in 2014. Ballmer oversaw Microsoft's 2011 purchase of Skype for $8.5 billion.



Ballmer owns an estimated 4% of Microsoft, making him the software giant's largest individual shareholder. In 2014, shortly after stepping down as Microsoft CEO, Ballmer purchased the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team for $2 billion.Ballmer lived in the same dorm and on the same floor as Bill Gates while the two attended Harvard University. The brotherly relationship between the two became strained when Ballmer started pushing the tech company into hardware, such as the Surface tablet and the Windows mobile phone, during his tenure as CEO.


   10. Mark Zuckerberg  

Age: 39
Residence: United States
CEO and Chair: Meta Platforms (META)
Net Worth: $108 billion
Meta Platforms Ownership Stake: 13% ($104 billion total)
Other Assets: $3.95 billion in cash



Mark Zuckerberg first developed Facebook (now Meta) alongside fellow students Eduardo Saverin, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes while attending Harvard University in 2004. As Facebook began to be used at other universities, Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard to focus entirely on his growing business. Today, Zuckerberg is the CEO and chair of Meta, which had 3 billion monthly active users as of Q2 2023.















Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
 Chesnot / Getty Images



Facebook is the world's largest social networking service. As the website is free to use, most of the company's revenue is generated through advertising.Meta is also host to several other brands, including photo-sharing app Instagram, which it acquired in 2012; cross-platform mobile messaging service WhatsApp and virtual-reality–headset producer Oculus, both acquired in 2014; Workplace, its enterprise-connectivity platform; and Portal, its line of video-calling devices.Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, founded the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative in 2015, with each of them serving as co-CEO. Their charity seeks to leverage technology to fix societal ills, such as improving the access and quality of education, reforming both the criminal justice system and the U.S. immigration system, improving housing affordability, and eventually eradicating all diseases.




Who Are the Top 10 Richest People in the World?
The top 10 richest people in the world as of Sept. 1, 2023, are:Elon MuskBernard ArnaultJeff BezosLarry EllisonBill GatesLarry PageWarren BuffettSergey BrinSteve BallmerMark Zuckerberg




Who Is the World's Richest Man in 2023?
As of Sept. 1, 2023, the world's richest man is Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla and SpaceX.




Who Is the Richest Woman in the World?
The richest woman in the world is Francoise Bettencourt Meyers. As of Sept. 1, 2023, her net worth is $88.4 billion. Her net worth is derived from her holdings in L'Oréal, the world's largest cosmetics company.


   The Bottom Line  

If you want to get a little closer to making the richest billionaires rankings, you might need to become a technological innovator or luxury retail mastermind. Or you could keep it simple and focus on value investing.



It also wouldn’t hurt to have been born into wealth; however, the greatest fortunes on this list started as good ideas that people with creativity, drive, and connections used to build some of the world's largest companies.
Jean-Baptiste Say was a French classical liberal economist and scholar. Born in Lyon, Say had a distinguished career. He served on a government finance committee under Napoleon and taught political economy at several schools in France. His law of markets is a classical economic theory that states that production is the source of demand. According to Say's law, the ability to demand something is financed by supplying a different good.





Key Takeaways

Jean-Baptiste Say was a French classical liberal political economist who greatly influenced neoclassical economic thought.Say was influenced by Adam Smith and his book, The Wealth of Nations.Say worked in the French government under Napoleon and as a professor in France.He argued strongly in favor of competition, free trade, and lifting restraints on business.Say's Law of Markets suggests that all markets will clear because there will always be demand for something if it is supplied, given the right price.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

Jean-Baptiste Say was born on Jan. 5, 1767, in Lyon, France. He went to school in Lyon before moving to London, England, to study business. Say returned to France in 1787 and lived in Paris with his family.



He found work as a secretary in a Paris-based insurance company run by Etienne Claviere, a politician and financier of the French Revolution. This was where he first came across Adam Smith's An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. He was heavily influenced by Smith's work and, using the connections he made through Claviere, became a journalist. He later became a member of an economic institute, which operated under the government.



Napolean removed Say from his post with the institute. But he managed to open a cotton-spinning mill in 1807. Six years later, he sold the business and joined the Conservatoire National des Arts et Metiers as a char between 1817 and 1830. He was also a professor at the Collège de France where he taught political economy. He remained at the latter school in his position until he died in 1832.


   Notable Accomplishments  

As noted above, Say was heavily influenced by Adam Smith and the economic theories he laid out in his 1776 book Wealth of Nations. He was a big proponent of Smith’s free market theories, promoting his laissez-faire philosophies and helping to popularize them in France through his academic work and teaching. Say also expressed the belief that a falling price level could be a positive occurrence if it resulted from productivity gains rather than from deflation.



Say is known for his formulation of Say's Law of Markets or his Theory of Markets, According to the law, a buyer must first produce something of value (i.e. money) to sell to obtain purchasing power. This implies that the effective demand in an economy is the result of previous acts of production. As a result, there can never be a sustained general oversupply of goods in an economy because producing economic goods is what creates general demand for goods.



Say's Law does not claim that there can never be imbalances in supply and demand for specific goods. But he believed that they tend toward balances as prices adjust and that this process of price adjustment is also critical to balancing the general demand and supply of all goods.






Say's economist contemporaries included James Mill, Jeremy Bentham, and David Ricardo.


  Published Works  

Jean-Baptiste Say, commonly known as J-B Say, wrote about money and banking and shared his views of taxation as burdensome. and for his book titled A Treatise On Political Economy, which was published in 1803.



In addition to his famous Treatise, his other published works were the two-volume Complete Course in Practical Political Economy, which was published in 1852, and a collection of his correspondence with fellow economist Thomas Malthus titled Letters to Mr. Malthus. This publication discussed and debated his critics' theories of economic growth.


  Legacy  

Say's Law of Markets lives on in modern neoclassical economic models which argue that if prices are flexible enough for all markets clear, then the economy will tend toward stability. While it implies that the economy is in a sense self-regulating so that production is ultimately the source of demand, the law has been misinterpreted and frequently taken to mean that supply creates its own demand. He was a supporter of free trade and competition and championed fewer restrictions on businesses.



Contemporary economists John Maynard Keynes and Thomas Malthus criticized Say’s law. Later economists point to Keynes as partly or chiefly responsible for the confusion over Say's Law, characterizing Keynes's restatement of the Law as a strawman that misrepresents Say's Law in order to further Keynes's arguments at the expense of classical economics.



His works (appearing in English translations) found an admiring audience in American founding fathers Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, with whom he actively corresponded. Madison’s letter thanking Say for sending him a copy of his Treatise reads in part, “I pray you Sir to be assured of the great value I place on your esteem … ” Jefferson was so impressed by Say that he encouraged him to move to Virginia.



Say is credited by Robert L. Formaini in the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas’s Economic Insights publication as among the first economists to discuss entrepreneurship and notions of utility, describing entrepreneurs as helpful in meeting “human wants.”






 Say co-founded the ESCP Europe in 1819. It was considered the first business school in the world.


  Personal Life  

Jean-Baptiste Say spent some time in the French military where he volunteered with a battalion. In 1793, he married Julie Gourdel-Deloches. This allowed him to avoid mandatory conscription in the military. The couple had two children, Horace Emile Say and Adrienne Say.



Say's wife died in 1830. As a result, he developed nervous apoplexy. Say died on Nov. 15, 1832, in Paris. He was buried in Les Invalides, a common burial place for influential French people, including Napolean.




Who Was Jean-Baptiste Say?
Jean-Baptiste Say was a French classical liberal economist. Born in 1767, Say worked in the French government under Napoleon (who later let him go) and as a professor of political economy at various schools in France. Say was influenced by Adam Smith, who is considered the father of modern economics. He used his position to teach Smith's beliefs and theories in France. His own theories, including the Law of Markets, are commonly studied even today. It states that society must generate income before people can purchase any goods and services. He was also a proponent of competition, free trade, and lifting restraints on business.




What Type of Economy Influenced Jean-Baptiste Say?
Jean-Baptiste Say was heavily influenced by the economic theories laid out by Adam Smith in his book The Wealth of Nations. He believed in Smith's free market and laissez-faire economic theories. Say spent a great deal of time and effort highlighting these subjects in his own educational and professional pursuits.




What Is Say's Law of Markets?
Say's Law of Markets is a classical economic theory that states that individuals need to produce and generate income in order to purchase goods and services. According to Say, demand occurs before any production takes place—not because of the income generated. This law addresses how individuals create wealth along with how economic activity works.


   The Bottom Line  

Jean-Baptiste Say was a French classical liberal economist who left a lasting mark on the world with his academic and professional work. Say, who once worked under Napoleon, was moved by the work of Adam Smith, who is considered the father of modern economics. He taught political economy in France until his death and also wrote several books. But his Law of Markets, which highlights the relationship between income and supply and demand, is probably what he's best known for leaving behind.
What Is Jekyll and Hyde?  

The phrase "Jekyll and Hyde" employs a literary reference to describe a stock market that appears to have a split personality, mixing good and bad character traits.



Jekyll represents the good in a market. It is benign, predictable, and conducive to trading gains. Hyde is a bad character who is volatile, unstable, unpredictable, and generally dangerous to investors.



Because the stock market is susceptible to the full range of human emotions, Jekyll and Hyde make frequent appearances on Wall Street.






A Jekyll and Hyde stock market exhibits a split personality.Mr. Hyde may emerge at any moment, wrecking a calm and rational market.An economist might argue that this is an example of behavioral finance.


   Understanding Jekyll and Hyde  

In Robert Louis Stevenson's The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Dr. Jekyll, a decent and congenial scientist, unleashes his dark side, Mr. Hyde, through unwise experimentation on himself in a laboratory. Although Jekyll and Hyde have contradictory natures, they are one and the same person.



The embodiment of good and evil in one man is at times paralleled in the stock market. A calm and predictable market can suddenly and inexplicably be torn apart by a frenzy of negativity. Like the characters in Stevenson's novel, market participants and observers are left baffled about this strange behavior and at a loss to explain its underlying causes.


  Evolution of Behavioral Finance  

An economist would say that strange market behavior is at odds with the efficient market hypothesis, which maintains that the price of any stock at any given time will always be the same as its fair market value because it will be based on all of the information then available.



A relatively new field of theory, behavioral finance, attempts to explain how rational decision-making, or a lack of it, contributes to manic swings in a market. Collective human behavior connected to greed and fear causes bubbles to form and then suddenly pop.



The Jekyll and Hyde syndrome might illustrate an aspect of behavioral finance.
What Is the Jensen's Measure?  

The Jensen's measure, or Jensen's alpha, is a risk-adjusted performance measure that represents the average return on a portfolio or investment, above or below that predicted by the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), given the portfolio's or investment's beta and the average market return. This metric is also commonly referred to as simply alpha.





Key Takeaways

The Jensen's measure is the difference in how much a person returns vs. the overall market.Jensen's measure is commonly referred to as alpha. When a manager outperforms the market concurrent to risk, they have "delivered alpha" to their clients.The measure accounts for the risk-free rate of return for the time period.


   Understanding Jensen's Measure  

To accurately analyze the performance of an investment manager, an investor must look not only at the overall return of a portfolio but also at the risk of that portfolio to see if the investment's return compensates for the risk it takes. For example, if two mutual funds both have a 12% return, a rational investor should prefer the less risky fund. Jensen's measure is one of the ways to determine if a portfolio is earning the proper return for its level of risk.



If the value is positive, then the portfolio is earning excess returns. In other words, a positive value for Jensen's alpha means a fund manager has "beat the market" with their stock-picking skills.


   Real World Example of Jensen's Measure  

Assuming the CAPM is correct, Jensen's alpha is calculated using the following four variables:



Using these variables, the formula for Jensen's alpha is:



Alpha = R(i) - (R(f) + B x (R(m) - R(f)))



where:



R(i) = the realized return of the portfolio or investment



R(m) = the realized return of the appropriate market index



R(f) = the risk-free rate of return for the time period



B = the beta of the portfolio of investment with respect to the chosen market index



For example, assume a mutual fund realized a return of 15% last year. The appropriate market index for this fund returned 12%. The beta of the fund versus that same index is 1.2, and the risk-free rate is 3%. The fund's alpha is calculated as:



Alpha = 15% - (3% + 1.2 x (12% - 3%)) = 15% - 13.8% = 1.2%.



Given a beta of 1.2, the mutual fund is expected to be riskier than the index, and thus earn more. A positive alpha in this example shows that the mutual fund manager earned more than enough return to be compensated for the risk they took over the course of the year. If the mutual fund only returned 13%, the calculated alpha would be -0.8%. With a negative alpha, the mutual fund manager would not have earned enough return given the amount of risk they were taking.


   Special Consideration: EMH  

Critics of Jensen's measure generally believe in the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), invented by Eugene Fama, and argue that any portfolio manager's excess returns derive from luck or random chance rather than skill. Because the market has already priced in all available information, it is said to be "efficient" and accurately priced, the theory says, precluding any active manager from bringing anything new to the table. Further supporting the theory is the fact that many active managers fail to beat the market any more than those that invest their clients' money in passive index funds.
Who Is Jerome Kerviel?  

Jerome Kerviel was a junior level derivatives trader for French securities firm Société Générale. He was charged with losing more than €4.9 billion in company assets by conducting a series of unauthorized and false trades between 2006 and early 2008. When company managers discovered that Kerviel had conducted tens of billions of euros worth of unauthorized trades, they rushed to close out the open positions (most of which were specialized equity arbitrage trades) and contain the extent of the fraud. Several of the trades were closed out with heavy losses due to a falling market at the time of sale.





Key Takeaways

Jerome Kerviel is a French rogue trader convicted of conducting false and unauthorized trades at Société Générale.To offset his one-sided bets with the opposite position that did not actually exist, Kerviel created fake trades in the system's computers and logs.To conceal his success, he began creating losing trades intentionally to generate losses to offset his early gains.Kerviel's trades resulted in losses of €4.9 billion in company assets.Kerviel served five months in prison and was required to pay €4.9 billion in fines, which was later cut down to €1 million.


   Understanding Jerome Kerviel  

Jerome Kerviel was born on Jan. 11, 1977, growing up in Pont L'Abby, Brittany, France. Kerviel completed a bachelor's degree at the University of Nantes in 1999 and then a master's in finance at the University of Lyon in 2000.



Jerome Kerviel joined Société Générale in the summer of 2000 at the age of 23. His first position at the company was in the compliance department, but in 2005 he moved to a junior trader job working with derivatives. Kerviel's role was to capitalize on pricing discrepancies between equity derivatives and the market price of stocks upon which the derivatives were based.


   Understanding Derivatives  

Derivatives are investment instruments that derive their value from another asset, such as the price of corn, a stock, or an index. There are many different kinds of derivatives, such as futures, options, and swaps.



To limit risk in derivative trades, a long derivative position is generally offset with a similar short position. For example, if a trader purchased Euro stock market futures hoping the market would go up, typically, this bet would be offset by shorting U.S. stock futures to profit if markets decline, as European and U.S. stocks tend to move in a similar fashion. Kerviel began making only one side of these bets.


   Kerviel and Unauthorized Trades  

With several years' experience in Société Générale's back office, Kerviel was well-versed in the company's policies for approving and regulating trading among its brokers. He took advantage of this knowledge in late 2006 and early 2008 to offset his one-sided bets with the opposite position that did not actually exist by creating fake trades in the system's computers and logs, so the trades were not flagged by the bank's oversight systems.



Initially, these trades were profitable. With so much early success, Kerviel feared the bank would discover the false transactions. To conceal the activity, he began creating losing trades intentionally to generate losses to offset his early gains.



Managerial staff at Société Générale uncovered unauthorized trading activity in January 2008 and took steps to unwind the positions created by Kerviel. When the dust settled, Kerviel's losses were estimated at €4.9 billion. Kerviel maintains that his bosses knew about his fraudulent trades but intentionally looked the other way as he was making profits for the bank. An appeals court in Versailles sided with Kerviel in 2016 and stated in a judgment that it was not "occasional negligence" but "managerial choices" that ensured Kerviel could get away with his criminal acts.


   Special Considerations  

There are conflicting accounts about Kerviel's talents as a trader and student. Professors at his alma mater, the University of Lyon, are reported to have said that he was a student just like any other. The former governor of the Bank of France described Kerviel as a "computer genius" but colleagues claim that he was not a star trader within their ranks.



Notably, Kerviel is not believed to have profited personally from his reckless trading, though he now falls into the infamous group of rogue traders that have collectively lost their employers billions of dollars through risky and unauthorized trading activity.






While Kerviel's case was being considered, he made a pilgrimage on foot to Rome from Paris to meet the Pope. Together they discussed the problems of capitalism.



Kerviel was convicted of breach of trust and other charges in the French court in 2010. He was sentenced to at least three years in prison and ordered to pay restitution of €4.9 billion. He served five months in prison in 2014 before being released. His fine amount was also reduced to €1 million in 2016.


   Jerome Kerviel FAQs  
  What Does Rogue Trader Mean?  

A rogue trader is one who trades on behalf of others; clients or a company, and does so in a reckless manner, often flouting company policy and risk management procedures. The actions a rogue trader takes are usually on a speculative basis involving high-risk securities and significant amounts of capital.


  What Is Jerome Kerviel's Net Worth?  

Jerome Kerviel does not have a positive net worth. After his sentence, he owed €4.9 billion but this amount was cut to €1 million in 2016. Therefore, he has a negative net worth of approximately 1 million euros.


  What Does Jerome Kerviel Do Now?  

Jerome Kerviel is currently working as an IT consultant at Lemaire Consultants.


  Is Société Générale Still In Business?  

Yes, Société Générale is still in business. It is a global financial firm with offices all over the world. It is headquartered in Paris. The company has extensive retail banking services, along with sales and trading and investment banking.


   The Bottom Line  

Jerome Kerviel was a trader for the French investment bank, Société Générale, where he made rogue trades using derivatives. His trades resulted in losses of €4.9 billion for the bank. He was sentenced to three years in prison, serving only five months, and was ordered to pay fines totaling €4.9 billion but that was later reduced to €1 million.
Who is Jerry A. Hausman?  

Jerry A. Hausman is an economics professor and director of the MIT Telecommunications Economics Research Program. Dr. Hausman's research has focused on applied microeconomics, econometrics, differentiated products, telecommunications, taxation, energy, aging, and the environment. 





Key Takeaways

Jerry Hausman is a professor of economics and applied econometrician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).Hausman is well known for his work in developing the Durbin-Wu-Hausman test for statistical model specification.His applied research includes extensive work on the economics of the telecommunications industry and the estimation of price indexes.


   Life and Career  

Born in West Virginia in 1946, he first joined MIT in 1973 as an assistant professor. Dr. Hausman holds a Ph.D. from Oxford University, where he was a Marshall Scholar. He has earned numerous awards, honors, and fellowships, including the John Bates Clark Award and the Frisch Medal. Dr. Hausman is widely published and has been an associate or advisory editor for numerous economics journals. 



Proving that a cerebral economist of his magnitude can be deployed behind the scenes in business, Dr. Hausman has been a consultant for retailers including Starbucks, Kellogg's, Anheuser Busch, Tesco's, and Home Depot. In 2018 he was hired as a scientific advisor by Teikametrics, a Retail Optimization Platform (ROP) for sellers on Amazon and other marketplaces. "There is an opportunity to help millions of sellers using data and econometrics to help them make better decisions on pricing, advertising, and inventory selection. The technology we are building at Teikametrics is helping retailers and brands compete in this dynamic new retail economy - this is the future of retail," Hausman said in a statement. Having an advisor like Dr. Hausman to apply advanced data science techniques within the Amazon ecosystem should only make the online juggernaut even more formidable.


   Contributions  

Hausman has written numerous research articles in theoretical and applied econometrics. He is most well known for his work in developing the Durbin-Wu-Hausman test, and has also done extensive research on the telecommunications industry and on the estimation of price indexes. 


  Durbin-Wu-Hausman Test  

This well-known statistical test shows the extent to which statistical models correspond to the data under study. Known as the Durbin-Wu-Hausman test, it is a test for endogeneity in an econometric model and is helpful for statisticians in determining whether a model will ultimately be effective in calculating p-values, basically the bottom line for statistical significance or non-significance.


  Telecommunications Industry  

Hausman is a recognized expert in the economics of the telecommunications industry. His applied research in this area has ranges from the effects of taxation and regulation in the industry to the welfare benefits to consumers of innovation in cellular telephones and networks. For example his work on telecom taxation has demonstrated that taxes on wireless services can impose a far greater burden on the economy than the revenue they raise for governments.  


  Price Indexes  

Hausman’s recent work has also included a focus on price indexes, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI), and the benefits to consumers that result from lower prices through large discount retailers. His research indicates that failing to properly account for the lower prices offered by retailers such as Walmart supercenters, the resulting changes in shopping patterns as consumers take advantage of the lower prices, and the improvement in the quality of differentiated products and services offered by these outlets all introduce substantial upward bias into the CPI.
What Is the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business?  

The term Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business refers to Rice University's graduate school of business. Founded in 1974 and located in Houston, the school offers graduate and doctorate programs, as well as various dual degree and executive education initiatives.﻿﻿



The school is well-known for its small class sizes and well-respected Master of Business Administration (MBA) program. It is consistently ranked among the 30 best MBAs in the United States by leading publications such as Businessweek, U.S. News, and the Financial Times.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business is a business school located at Rice University in Houston.Its MBA program is known for its favorable student-to-faculty ratio, with only 120 full-time MBA students at any given time.The school's MBA graduates commonly pursue careers in the financial services, energy, and technology sectors.


   Understanding the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business  

The Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business was established in 1974 at Rice University in Houston, thanks in part to a major gift from businessman and philanthropist, Jesse Holman Jones. It is now commonly referred to as the Jones Graduate School of Business or Rice Business School.



The school's mission is to foster "principled, innovative thought leaders in global communities." According to the school, there are about 1,100 students registered for the 2020-2021 winter session in its MBA and Ph.D. programs, including the:



Full-time MBA
MBA for professionals
Executive MBA
Graduate degree in accounting



The school’s faculty—a total of 144—has expertise in areas like finance, accounting, entrepreneurship, operations management, and the energy sector. Unlike many other business schools, which maintain distributed research centers in several different buildings, this school is housed in a single building located in the heart of Houston. This concentrated architecture helps maintain an intimate atmosphere—with an average class size of just 40 students, the school’s faculty and staff remain highly accessible to students.



The Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business’s full-time MBA program was rated as the 26th-best program in the United States by Forbes. U.S. News ranked it in the 25th spot—a tie with Georgetown University's McDonough School of Business.






The median GMAT score for the class of 2020 was 710.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

The school’s full-time MBA cohort for the class of 2020 included representation from 17 nationalities, of whom over 30% were female.﻿﻿ According to the school's website, there were about 7,500 active alumni around the world, representing 54 different countries. About 6,800 of these individuals are located in the United States.﻿﻿



With an annual tuition of roughly $60,000, individuals who graduated with an MBA from the school saw an average starting salary of nearly $125,000 in 2019, of which over 92% received their offers within three months of graduation. These grads are generally employed in the financial services, energy, and technology sectors. Top employers included JP Morgan (JPM), ExxonMobil (XOM), and Sysco (SYY).﻿﻿
Jesse L. Livermore was a noted stock trader at the turn of the 20th century. Despite his lack of formal education, he began his career at age 14. Regarded as a Wall Street legend, Livermore has influenced generations of stock and commodity traders.



Livermore is the author of How to Trade Stocks and My Life in Wall Street and How I Made Three Fortunes in the Stock Market. 



Jesse L. Livermore died by suicide on Nov. 28, 1940.





Key Takeaways

Jesse L. Livermore was a renowned stock trader in the early 20th century.He worked for Paine Webber & Co. at the age of 14.Livermore's experiences are recounted in the book, Reminiscences of a Stock Operator by Edwin Lefevre.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

Jesse L. Livermore was born on July 26, 1877, in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts. Raised in poverty, Livermore attended only elementary school.



At age 14, he joined Paine Webber & Co in Boston. As a board boy, Livermore copied share prices onto a blackboard from the ticker tape recordings from the stock exchange.


   The Stock Trader  

In his book, Jesse Livermore Boy Plunger: The Man Who Sold America Short in 1929, Tom Rubython describes Livermore as the man who made the most money in a single day and the man who lost the most money in a single day. Between 1900 and 1940, Jesse Livermore made and lost three fortunes. Livermore bought and held during bull markets and sold when market momentum shifted. His strategy was uncanny when considering that companies did not publish financial statistics or conduct fundamental analyses.



Livermore's first trade at the age of 15 gleaned a profit of $3.12. By age 16, he had quit his job at Paine Webber & Co. and began trading on his own. At the time, trades were often conducted at bucket shops, where customers gambled on stock prices, often using high degrees of leverage. When banned from Boston's bucket shops because of his consistent success, Livermore moved to New York City.


   The Bear of Wall Street  

Jesse L. Livermore garnered credit on Wall Street for predicting market drops, earning the nickname “the Bear of Wall Street.” His two noted trades occurred during the Panic of 1907 and at the start of the Great Depression. 



As a market bubble expanded in 1906, Livermore followed the long trend until instinct advised him otherwise. In a famous trade, Livermore shorted Union Pacific stock and netted a $300,000 profit two days later when an earthquake struck San Francisco. The market plunged in 1907 and Livermore followed the advice of J.P. Morgan and bought while others sold. Traders followed suit and Livermore is credited with aiding an early recovery in the market.



In 1929, Livermore was well-positioned in the stock market but looked for the first signs of weakness as another market bubble loomed. In several small trades, Livermore sold his long positions by probing short bets into the market. In doing so, he lost close to $250,000. Livermore, however, continued to build a short position, and on Black Tuesday, Oct. 29, 1929, Livermore reportedly made $100 million on his Great Depression short.



According to reports, Livermore’s peak wealth would equate to $1.5 billion today. He traded freely and unregulated until the launch of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in 1934, which marked the beginning of the end for Livermore. By 1940, Livermore was bankrupt.




Who Did Jesse L. Livermore Influence?
Noting Livermore's experiences chronicled in the book, Reminiscences of a Stock Operator by Edwin Lefevre, William J. O'Neil, the founder of "Investor's Business Daily," wrote, "in my 45 years of experience in this business, I have only found 10 or 12 books that were of any real value and Reminiscences is one of them." Today, many in the market know Jesse Livermore from the pseudonymous Twitter account of the same name where the strategies of Jesse Livermore are discussed and advised.




How Did the White House Affect Jesse L. Livermore's Trading?
In the unregulated market, Livermore cornered the cotton market after World War I. He used brokers worldwide to build positions in cotton and within 18 months, he owned most of the cotton in the United States. President Woodrow Wilson petitioned Livermore to sell his strong position, which he did, to evade harming the U.S. economy.




How Did J.P. Morgan Influence Jesse L. Livermore?
During the panic of 1907, Livermore made $1 million on short positions in one day. When the renowned banker, J.P. Morgan, urged him to close his shorts for the good of the country, Livermore did. Livermore would then net an additional $3 million on the market rebound. 


   The Bottom Line  

Jesse L. Livermore's rise from board boy to Wall Street legend remains a lesson to investors today. His experiences are a historical record of unregulated stock trading in the early 20th century.
What Is a Jewelry Floater?  

A jewelry floater is a type of supplemental insurance designed to protect precious jewelry. It is often purchased alongside other forms of insurance, such as homeowners insurance or renters insurance. Although these types of insurance policies generally include some coverage for jewelry, jewelry floaters can expand this coverage, making them more suitable for valuable items.





Key Takeaways

Jewelry floaters are a type of supplemental insurance intended to protect valuable jewelry.These types of add-on insurance policies are common for a range of valuable personal possessions.To obtain a jewelry floater, it may be necessary to pay for a professional appraisal beforehand.


   How Jewelry Floaters Work  

A jewelry floater is an optional addition to a homeowner's insurance policy that protects against financial loss from the damage or theft of valuable jewelry. Although basic homeowners policies typically provide some jewelry coverage, individuals with sizable or valuable jewelry collections often opt to purchase a jewelry floater in addition to their basic policy. If the jewelry does get damaged, stolen, or lost, the jewelry floater can provide a higher dollar amount of coverage than would be possible under the basic home insurance plan.



Aside from jewelry, floaters are also often purchased for other types of valuable assets. These are often called a personal articles floater (PAF). Examples include fine art, high-end watches, or even collectibles such as baseball cards. In some cases, investors may even specifically purchase these assets as a type of alternative asset in their portfolios. For these investors, as well as wealthier individuals in general, purchasing floaters might be a worthwhile expense to ensure peace of mind.



In addition to purchasing jewelry floaters, policyholders will often also obtain formal appraisals of their jewelry's worth.






An appraisal helps the insured prove the value of their items in the event that they need to file a claim, reducing the risk of any potential disputes with their insurer.



In fact, many insurers will require that a professional appraisal be performed as part of their due diligence on the jewelry floater policy. After all, from the insurance company's perspective, it is important to understand the value of the item so that they can set their insurance premiums at an appropriate level.


   Example of a Jewelry Floater  

Taylor is a collector of high-end jewelry. Under their rental insurance policy, Taylor is entitled to a certain amount of coverage for all their personal possessions. However, Taylor realizes that if the collection were to be stolen or destroyed, they might quickly exceed the maximum coverage level under their rental insurance policy. Moreover, because the jewelry in the collection is valuable and rare, Taylor worries that the insurance company might not understand its replacement value if they were to file a claim.



For this reason, Taylor decides to take out a jewelry floater. In doing so, Taylor obtains a professional appraisal of their jewelry and incorporates this appraisal into their new insurance policy. That way, if Taylor were to make a claim, they have clarity that the insurance company understands and accepts the actual replacement value of their insured jewelry. Moreover, Taylor is careful to set the insurance policy so that its maximum coverage level would fully capture the value of their collection.




Does Homeowners Insurance Cover Jewelry Theft?
Yes, a typical homeowners or renters insurance policy will cover jewelry theft, but only up to a set limit—say, $1,500 or $2,000. A jewelry floater will extend coverage for jewelry valued higher than what your homeowners insurance will cover.




What Does a Jewelry Floater Cover?
Jewelry floaters typically cover a broader range of damage to your jewelry than homeowners insurance would. For example, a jewelry floater may cover:Accidental lossTheft, both at home and away from homeDamage to the jewelry, such as broken prongs or clasps




How Much Does a Jewelry Floater Cost?
Jewelry floaters typically cost between 1% and 2% of the jewelry's value, per year. So if you have a diamond necklace worth $12,000, a jewelry floater could cost you $120 per year.


   The Bottom Line  

A jewelry floater is additional insurance you can purchase to protect your jewelry beyond what's covered in your homeowners insurance policy. Buying a jewelry floater can protect your jewelry collection in case of theft, loss, or damage, saving you from out-of-pocket costs to repair or replace it.
Jim Cramer is a former hedge fund manager, TV host, and personality of CNBC's "Mad Money," and he runs the CNBC "Investing Club". He is also the co-founder and chair of TheStreet.com, Inc.



As of 2022, Cramer is estimated to be worth around $150 million.





Key Takeaways

Jim Cramer had creative parents. His mother was an artist, and his father was an entrepreneur who owned a company that sold wrapping paper, boxes, and bags.Cramer attended Harvard University where he earned a Bachelors's degree in government in 1977, graduating magna cum laude.He received his Juris Doctor degree at Harvard Law School in 1984.As a novice reporter in Tallahassee, Fla., Cramer covered the Ted Bundy murders.Cramer ran a hedge fund from 1987 to 2000 that purportedly had only one year of negative returns.












Investopedia / Hugo Lin


   Early Life and Education  

Jim Cramer was born Feb. 10, 1955, in Wyndmoor, Penn., a suburb close to Philadelphia. His parents were hardworking and creative individuals. His mother was an artist, and his father was an entrepreneur who owned a company that sold wrapping paper, boxes, and bags to retailers.



Cramer sold ice cream at Veterans Stadium during local Phillies games as a young man. In 1978, Cramer began working as a reporter. He covered the Ted Bundy murders in Tallahassee, Fla., where he worked for a Democrat and the (now defunct) Los Angeles Herald Examiner. Cramer was robbed many times in Florida and was even forced to live in his car.



Cramer attended Harvard University, where he earned a Bachelors's degree in government in 1977, graduating magna cum laude. His journalism experience began in college when he became the President and Editor in Chief of the Harvard Crimson. He continued his education at Harvard Law School, where he earned his Juris Doctor degree in 1984.



While in law school, Cramer began investing in the stock market and even promoted his stock picks. His track record of successful stock picks landed him a stockbroker job with Goldman Sachs.


   Notable Accomplishments  

In 1987, Jim Cramer took his knowledge of the stock market and started his own hedge fund company, Cramer & Co. Cramer, ran his fund from 1987 to 2000 and had only one year of negative returns. He eventually retired from his hedge fund in 2001, posting an overall annual average return of 24% from 1987 to 2001 and yielding an average of over $10 million per year over the entire 14-year period.






The CNBC show "Mad Money," which Jim Cramer is most well-known for hosting, aims to teach people how to think like professional investors rather than telling them what to think.



While still at his hedge fund, in 1996, Cramer co-founded TheStreet.com, a website that provides commentary and advice on the stock market. Cramer is the second-largest shareholder of the company, and, at one point, the company reached a market cap of $1.7 billion. As of August 2019, however, Maven acquired TheStreet.



In 2005, Jim Cramer signed on to be the host of the CNBC show "Mad Money," for which he is most well-known. The show's goal is to teach its viewers how to think like professional investors and not to tell people what to think. The show's popularity has risen consistently over the past 10 years, making it one of the most popular investment shows on CNBC.



Cramer's success on "Mad Money" has allowed him to host and appear as a guest on multiple investment shows across various broadcasting companies. In addition, Cramer has been a guest on prominent shows unrelated to investment finance, such as "Arrested Development," "The Tonight Show," and "The Daily Show."


   Net Worth  

According to Money, Inc, Jim Cramer has a total estimated net worth of $150 million as of 2022. The bulk of his net worth came from his success as a hedge fund manager, but his success did not stop there. Using his experience as a hedge fund manager, Cramer increased his net worth through a diversified strategy of multiple income streams.



The market cap and cash flow from his ownership of TheStreet.com have boosted his net worth, as has his notoriety and success as the host of "Mad Money." "Mad Money" has maintained Cramer's strong influence within the investment finance realm. He is a leading personality for stock market advice.


   Publications  

Jim Cramer has written several books on money and investing. Published by Simon& Schuster, they include Stay Mad for Life, Confessions of a Street Addict, You Got Screwed, Real Money, and Mad Money, a book named after the CNBC show of the same name.


   Special Considerations  

Cramer once said, "I've lost tremendous amounts of money in various markets, and I think that that's something that makes you better at my job, not worse."



The quote is a good example of the type of person Cramer has become through his experience as a hedge fund manager and as an on-air investment adviser. If an investor is in the game long enough, they are bound to lose money. But what the investor does with that learning makes them a success or failure.



"I will stand up for what I believe and for what I have always believed," Cramer also said. "Every person has a right to be rich in this country, and I want to help them get there." This embodies Cramer's mentality when he provides advice on his show "Mad Money."



Still, Cramer is not without his share of critics and controversy. In 1995, he was accused of manipulating stock prices after writing about several smaller companies he held shares in, which ultimately resulted in a $2 million windfall after his viewers helped increase the values of those stocks. This led some to accuse Cramer of having a conflict of interest when promoting shares he owns. personally or for his funds.



Other critics have pointed out that Cramer's track record of picking stocks on his TV show and other public outlets has not been stellar. Researchers that have analyzed Cramer's picks in detail find that since inception of the portfolio and since the start of Mad Money in 2005 (when the portfolio was converted into a charitable trust), Cramer’s portfolio has greatly underperformed the S&P 500 total return index both on an overall returns basis and in risk-adjusted return based on the Sharpe ratio.















Jim Cramer's Picks vs. S&P 500.




What Show Does Jim Cramer Host?
Jim Cramer is the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" and runs CNBC's "Investing Club".




Is Jim Cramer Wealthy?
Jim Cramer has a net worth of around $150 million as of mid-2022.




What Is the Investing Club With Jim Cramer?
The Investing Club with Jim Cramer provides investment advice and market picks and insight to members who sign up for his emailing list.




Did Jim Cramer Go to Harvard?
Yes. Jim Cramer earned his bachelor's degree from Harvard University in 1977. He also served as editor-in-chief of the student newspaper, The Harvard Crimson, during his senior year. He later earned a J.D. at Harvard Law School in 1984.


   The Bottom Line  

Jim Cramer has become one of the most recognized money managers and financial gurus on TV and in the media. His long-running show Smart Money attracts the most viewers on the CNBC station and Cramer has earned a name for himself as an aggressive, no-nonsense investor. He has reportedly been successful with the investments that he manages for his own funds; however, his stock picks disseminated to the public on-air have tended to underperform the broader market.
Jim Walton is the youngest son of Sam Walton, the founder of Walmart Inc. He served on the board of Walmart from 2005 to 2016 and is currently chair of the Arvest Bank Group.



As an heir to the Walmart fortune, Jim Walton boasts a net worth of $61.3 billion in 2023.





Key Takeaways

Jim Walton is the youngest son of Walmart founder Sam Walton.He held a seat on the board of directors of Walmart from 2005 to 2016 following the death of his brother, John.Walton is the chair of Arvest Bank Group.Jim Walton's son became the first of the third generation of Waltons to assume a board seat at Walmart Inc.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Early Life and Education  

Jim Walton was born on June 7, 1948, in Newport, Arkansas. The third and youngest son of Walmart founder Sam Walton, Jim Walton earned a bachelor’s degree in marketing at the University of Arkansas in 1971. He traveled extensively and earned a pilot's license before joining the family business in 1972.


   Walmart  

Walmart was founded in 1962 by Sam Walton as a small discount retailer in Rogers, Arkansas. A publicly-traded company since 1970, Walmart currently has over 11,000 stores in the United States and internationally. As of 2022, Walmart employed nearly 1.6 million people in the United States.



The Waltons are considered the wealthiest family in the world with an estimated net worth of $238 billion in 2021. Collectively, Jim Walton and other heirs of Sam Walton own half of all Walmart stock.



In 1972, Jim Walton joined Walmart in the real estate operations division. He moved to his family’s umbrella corporation, Walton Enterprises, in 1975, where he served briefly as president. Jim Walton's interest in banking led him to the family's company, Arvest Bank Group, where he remains today.



While holding his position at Arvest, he rejoined Walmart to assume the vacant board position after the death of his brother John in 2005.


   Arvest Bank Group  

Jim Walton is currently chair and chief executive officer of Arvest Bank Group, a Walton-owned regional bank that operates more than 260 banks in more than 100 communities throughout Arkansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma.



The Walton family created Arvest through its purchases of the Bank of Bentonville in 1961, the Bank of Pea Ridge in 1963, and the First National Bank & Trust Company in 1975. Arvest expanded in 2013 with the purchase of 29 Bank of America locations in the region. As of 2022, Arvest Bank Group had assets exceeding $20 billion and was ranked the largest bank in Arkansas by deposits and one of the largest in Oklahoma by the number of branches.


   Philanthropy  

Jim Walton has made considerable donations to the Walton Family Foundation, a family-led organization. Three generations of the descendants of Sam and Helen Walton work to improve K-12 education, protect rivers and oceans and the communities they support, and invest in the region of Northwest Arkansas and the Arkansas-Mississippi Delta.In 2020, the foundation awarded $749.5 million in grants to further our mission.




Which Generations of the Walton Family Hold Leadership Positions at Walmart Inc.?
In addition to members of the second generation, Jim Walton's son Steuart Walton was elected to the board and is the first member of the Walton family's third generation to join the company's leadership in 2016.




What Is Jim Walton's Interest in Charter Schools?
Through the Walton Family Foundation, Jim and his sister Alice have spearheaded a project established as the Charter Impact Fund to provide long-term, fixed-rate loans to high-performing charter schools around the country.




What Is Community Publishers Inc.?
Jim Walton was the chair of Community Publishers Inc., founded in 1982 as a community newspaper and commercial printer supporting publications in Arkansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. His father, Sam Walton, acquired the Benton County Daily Record, and Jim Walton expanded its presence through CPI until its sale to Berkshire Hathaway in 2015.


   The Bottom Line  

As the youngest son of Walmart founder Sam Walton, Jim Walton has contributed to his family business for decades. He serves as chair of the family's Arvest Bank Group and plays an active role in the Walton Family Foundation.
What Is a Jitney?  

In finance, the term jitney refers to a broker that does not have direct access to an exchange and therefore relies on another broker with exchange access in order to execute their trades.



The term can also be used to refer to a type of market manipulation in which brokers trade securities back and forth with one-another in order to earn commissions and artificially produce the appearance of high trading volume.





Key Takeaways

The term jitney has two meanings, depending on the context.One is relatively uncontroversial, referring simply to a broker that relies on another broker to execute their trades.The other definition has a negative connotation, referring to brokers that collude with one-another to exploit their clients and other market participants through various schemes.


   Understanding Jitneys  

Depending on the context, the term jitney can have a neutral or a negative connotation. In the first instance—a broker relying on another broker to execute transactions—there is nothing necessarily untoward taking place.



However, some brokers have been known to collude with one-another in order to fraudulently generate commission revenues or else mislead other market participants into overestimating the level of market interest in a particular security. This is done by repeatedly buying and selling a particular security between one or more brokers, thereby generating increased transaction volume. 



Depending on the nature of the scheme, this technique—which is also known as circular trading, account churning, or a "jitney game"—can be used to generate commissions, inflate the market price of a security, or initiate a sell-off by other investors. Often, these schemes are centered on securities with very thin liquidity and market capitalizations, such as so-called penny stocks. In addition to being illegal, these practices are understandably frowned upon by clients and other investors, which can therefore give the term jitney a negative connotation regardless of its contextual meaning.


   Real World Example of a Jitney  

XYZ Corporation is a brokerage firm with direct access to a major exchange. In order to generate additional business, they sometimes execute trades on behalf of a jitney client, ABC Financial.



Although these transactions are permissible in and of themselves, these two firms also sometimes engage in more dubious practices. For instance, XYZ and ABC occasionally make repeated transactions between their two firms in order to drum up additional commission revenues for themselves. Effectively, this practice consists of stealing from their clients.



Other practices which the firms sometimes engage in include buying and selling thinly traded securities, such as penny stocks, repeatedly buying and selling their shares between one-another at ever-increasing prices. If the liquidity in the stock is sufficiently small, other market participants might be fooled into believing that the rising price of the shares represents genuine market interest, thereby attracting outside buyers. XYZ and ABC will then sell their shares to these new buyers, pocketing a gain.



In other instances, the two firms will perpetrate a similar scheme but in the reverse direction. Instead of transacting at ever-increasing prices, they will do so at ever-decreasing prices. The goal in this transaction would be to scare other owners of the security into selling their shares, giving XYZ and ABC the opportunity to buy a large number of shares at an artificially low price. 



These so-called "jitney game" practices amount to market manipulation, and they are prohibited under United States laws and regulations.﻿﻿
What is Jitter  

Jitter is an anti-skimming technique that distorts the readout of the magnetic strip by altering the speed or motion of the card as it is swiped or pulled into a card reader or ATM. Jitter is designed to make any information copied by a card skimmer unreadable, and thus unusable.


   BREAKING DOWN Jitter  

Jitter helps combat card skimming, which is one of a variety of methods that criminals can obtain a credit or debit card number. In order to copy or “skim” the number, an individual may install a device that copies the information that is passed through the credit or debit card reader or ATM. These numbers are then used to make fraudulent purchases.



Jitter technology is designed to make it more difficult for illegal card readers to copy credit and debit card numbers. It is most likely to be found in ATMs and other machines that “draw-in” a credit or debit card for scanning, and is less likely to be a feature of machines that allow an individual to swipe his or her own card.



The jitter itself is a stutter in the timing of the card draw. This means that when an ATM accepts the card you insert, the machine does not take in the card at a steady pace, and may instead stop-and-start the scan. Many skimming devices require a smooth swipe in order to properly skim the numbers. Jitter technology does not work well in machines that allow an individual to dip in a credit or debit card manually. This type of swipe feature is typically found in older ATMs, but can also be found in more modern machines.



Jitter is not a full-proof method of fooling a credit card skimmer, but can help reduce the percentage of cards that can be read if a credit card skimmer has been installed.



Jitter technology is one reason that a credit card may fail to read when swiped, as the technology can cause problems with both legitimate card readers as well as card skimmers.


   Jitter's Efficacy in a Fast-Changing Security Landscape  

Jitter has been in use for more than a decade, but its ability to protect financial data is not what it once was. For instance, even more than five years ago, BankInfoSecurity, in 2012 a post titled "3 Reasons Skimmers Are Winning," took issue with the technology's prowess.



"The anti-skimming feature known as jitter, which uses a stop-start or jitter motion at the card reader to prevent card details from being copied, is a standard feature, but one that has been defeated," according to the site.



"Introduced more than seven years ago to the U.S. market by ATM manufacturers such as NCR Corp., Diebold, Fujitsu and Wincor Nixdorf AG, jitter remains the leading technology financial institutions use to prevent skimming. But jitter is only effective on ATMs with motorized card readers – readers that pull the card in, read the mag-stripe data and then push the card out. The technology is ineffective on machines with dip readers, in which the user manually inserts and withdraws the card."
What Is JMD (Jamaican Dollar)?  

JMD is the currency abbreviation for the Jamaican dollar, the official currency for the island nation of Jamaica, and is subdivided into 100 cents. The currency symbol for JMD (Jamaican dollar) is J$ or JA$.





Key Takeaways

JMD is the currency abbreviation for the Jamaican dollar, the official currency for the island nation of Jamaica, and is subdivided into 100 cents.In the foreign currency market, the most common Jamaican dollar exchange is the USD/JMD rate, which, as of April 2021, stands at 1 USD = 150.27 JMD.The JMD was the first dollar to be based on half-pound sterling instead of the Spanish or U.S. dollars.


   Understanding the JMD (Jamaican Dollar)  

JMD (Jamaican dollar) banknotes currently come in denominations of J$50, J$100, J$500, J$1,000, and J$5,000. The front side of the banknotes has special symbols or numerals in large print to help the visually impaired. Each note has the portrait of an eminent Jamaican figure on the front, mainly either those considered Jamaican heroes or former prime ministers. The backside of the dollar bills feature scenes of Jamaican locations or famous landmarks.



Many places in Jamaica that are frequented by tourists also accept U.S. dollars, but businesses located away from the main tourist hubs are more likely only to take the JMD. However, merchants can establish their own exchange rates so customers using foreign currency may encounter unfavorable conversion rates depending on the specific merchant’s policy. The Cayman Islands also used the Jamaican dollar at one time. In the foreign currency market, the most common Jamaican dollar exchange is the USD/JMD rate, which, as of July 4, 2021, stood at 1 USD = 150.05 JMD.



The Bank of Jamaica received exclusive rights to mint coins and banknotes produced in Jamaica in 1960, although De La Rue Currency Ltd. in England has printed banknotes used in Jamaica since 1920. The country adopted a decimal-based currency system in 1968. The JMD was the first dollar to be based on half-pound sterling instead of the Spanish or U.S. dollars.



JMD replaced the Jamaican pound in 1969. At the time, both coins and notes circulated, but coins have since replaced some bills. A J$1,000 note began circulation in 2000, and a J$5,000 note debuted in 2009. Regulations established by the Bank of Jamaica set limitations for the number of coins that can be used in one transaction to purchase goods and services, and also details the limits for specific denominations of coins allowed within those transactions.



As of 2019, which is the most current World Bank data, Jamaica's annual inflation rate is at 3.9% and its gross domestic product (GDP) posted a 0.7% reading.


   History of the JMD (Jamaican Dollar)  

Throughout its history, Jamaica has used a variety of coins and banknotes from various countries. The region’s original inhabitants saw no real need for monetary currency since they mainly conducted the transaction via barter. After the Spanish colonized Jamaica in the 16th century, the gradual introduction of Spanish money became used for buying and selling goods. Two centuries later, when Jamaica was a British colony, Jamaicans primarily used British currency or a slightly customized version of it. At one point, it was the only British territory in the West Indies to use distinctive pound sterling coins.

What Is a Job Lot?  

In finance, the term “job lot” refers to a commodities futures contract whose denomination is smaller than the typical standard lot for that commodity. For example, the standard lot for a crude oil futures contract is 1,000 barrels per contract. Any crude oil futures contract corresponding to less than 1,000 barrels would therefore be considered a job lot.



The term job lot is also used in the manufacturing sector, to refer to custom jobs whose parameters fall outside of the normal production process.





Key Takeaways

A job lot is a futures contract whose denomination is less than a standard lot.It can also refer to a non-standard job undertaken by a manufacturer.In the commodities futures market, job lets help smaller buyers participate in the market, increasing liquidity for all market participants.


   How Job Lots Work  

Today’s commodity futures exchanges are a large and important part of the global financial markets. Through them, producers can access the vital commodities they need, while financial buyers can speculate on commodity prices and control risks through hedging activities. One of the key components of this system is the fact that commodity exchanges use standard contracts. This greatly simplifies the trading system and allows transactions to take place in large volumes and at high speeds.



Oftentimes, however, the standard contract sizes for commodity futures could be prohibitively large for smaller companies and investors. For instance, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)’s futures contract for soybeans corresponds to roughly 136 metric tons of soybeans per contract.﻿﻿ A relatively small buyer who intends to take physical delivery upon expiration of the contract might not need that quantity of supply. Similarly, a speculator with relatively limited capital to invest might be reluctant to speculate on soybean futures if they risk being forced to potentially take delivery of such a large volume of soybeans.



To help accommodate these smaller market participants, commodities exchanges sometimes permit smaller order sizes. These ‘job lot’ futures contracts permit smaller denominations, such as 100 barrels of oil as compared to the standard 1,000. By allowing smaller investors to participate in the futures market, job lots help increase the total liquidity of the marketplace, making it easier for all traders to benefit from fast transaction times and relatively efficient prices.


   Real World Example of a Job Lot  

Futures contracts are typically standardized and trade on a futures exchange. A futures contract is considered a job lot when the agreement between the buyer and seller for the delivery of a commodity has a quantity below the normal limits for a commodity futures contract.



For example, precious metals—such as gold and silver—are often bought and sold as commodities futures contracts. A commodities exchange might issue silver futures contracts denominated in 5-ounce increments. If the exchange agreed to enter into a commodity futures contract with a buyer below the 5-ounce minimum, it would be considered a job lot.
What Is the Job Market?  

The job market is the market in which employers search for employees and employees search for jobs. The job market is not a physical place as much as a concept demonstrating the competition and interplay between different labor forces. It is also known as the labor market.



The job market can grow or shrink depending on the demand for labor and the available supply of workers within the overall economy. Other factors which impact the market are the needs of a specific industry, the need for a particular education level or skill set, and required job functions. The job market is a significant component of any economy and is directly tied in with the demand for goods and services.






The employment numbers are released on the first Friday of every month.


   The Job Market and the Unemployment Rate  

The job market is also directly related to the unemployment rate. The unemployment rate is the percentage of people in the labor force who are not currently employed but actively seeking a job. The higher the unemployment rate, the greater the supply of labor in the overall job market.



When employers have a larger pool of applicants to choose from, they can be pickier or force down wages. Conversely, as the unemployment rate drops, employers are forced to compete more heavily for available workers. The competition for workers has the effect of increasing wages. Wages determined by the job market provide valuable information for economic analysts and those who set public policy based on the state of the overall economy.





24.9%

The highest rate of unemployment in the U.S, which was documented in 1933.



During difficult economic times, unemployment tends to rise as employers may reduce their staffing numbers and create fewer new jobs, making it harder for people trying to find work. High rates of unemployment can prolong economic stagnation—a sustained period of little-to-no growth in an economy—and contribute to social upheaval, leading to the loss of opportunities for many individuals to live comfortably.



A report called the Current Population Survey can measure the state of the job market. It's a statistical survey performed every month by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The study includes a representative sample of about 60,000 homes to try and determine the unemployment rate of specific regions, earnings of those surveyed, hours the respondents worked, and many other demographic factors.





Key Takeaways

Employers search for employees and employees search for jobs in the job market.The job market grows or shrinks based on demand for labor and the number of workers in the economy.The job market is directly related to the unemployment rate—a measure of the percentage of people who aren't employed but actively seeking work.


   Example of a Job Market  

According to the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics total employment for non-farm payrolls rose by 528,000 for July 2022, and the unemployment rate (a lagging indicator) fell to 3.5%. Industries such as leisure and hospitality, professional and business services, and health care all saw job gains during this time.
What Is the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS)?  

The job openings and labor turnover survey (JOLTS) is a monthly report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) of the U.S. Department of Labor counting job vacancies and separations, including the number of workers voluntarily quitting employment.



The BLS surveys more than 20,000 businesses and government offices to estimate the numbers of U.S. job vacancies, hires, and separations included in the monthly jobs report. The job separations numbers are subdivided into three categories: total separations, quits, and layoffs and discharges; and other separations, which include deaths and retirements.



The number of vacancies is a widely followed indicator of labor demand, while the quits rate is partly a function of employment demand. Job hires and separations can be used to gauge labor turnover.



JOLTS supplements the BLS monthly jobs report, which estimates the number of U.S. payrolls and the unemployment rate. JOLTS data is released nearly a month after the monthly jobs report for the same reference period.





Key Takeaways

JOLTS is a monthly survey of U.S. job vacancies, hiring, and job separations released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor.The vacancies data gauges labor demand, while the number of quits, or voluntary separations, and their rate help to measure labor force turnover.A job vacancy is considered to be a position that is available, could start within 30 days, and which the employer is actively trying to fill from outside the organization. Vacancies include part-time and temporary openingsJOLTS numbers for job openings and voluntary separations from employment reached all-time highs in March 2022 amid an elevated quits rate tabbed "The Great Resignation."


   Understanding JOLTS  

JOLTS data is published monthly in seasonally adjusted as well as unadjusted form, subdivided by region, industry, and size of the workforce.



To produce JOLTS, the BLS surveys a representative sample of 21,000 nonfarm business and government employers. Respondents answer questions about their businesses' total employment, job openings, hires, and separations.



Job openings include all vacancies, including those for part-time or temporary employment, at the end of the reference month meeting the following criteria:



The position exists, and there is work available in that role.The job could start within 30 days.The employer is actively recruiting outside candidates for the job opening.



JOLTS employment estimates are benchmarked, or ratio adjusted, monthly to the current employment estimates of the Current Employment Statistics (CES) survey used to produce the monthly jobs report, and the JOLTS-to-CES employment ratio is then used to adjust other JOLTS data. JOLTS data are also revised in line with CES on an annual basis. It takes about a year for a new business to show up in the government database used to select the survey sample for JOLTS.



The BLS began collecting JOLTS data in 1999 and publishing survey results in 2002.


   JOLTS and the Great Resignation  

The Great Resignation describes the rise in the quits rate tracking voluntary separations from employment other than for retirement starting in 2021, as the U.S. economy and job market rebounded from the downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.



After plummeting to a low of 1.6% in April 2020, the quits rate rebounded to 2.4% by December, in line with where it stood 11 months earlier before than pandemic struck. The quits rate kept rising, reaching a series record 3% in November 2021, and matching that level the next month as well as in March 2022.



In absolute terms, the number of workers quitting jobs for reasons other than retirement reached a series high of 4.5 million in March 2022, representing an increase of 152,000 from February. Job openings of 11.55 million at the end of March were also the highest on record, representing 7.1% of the sum of filled and unfilled jobs.






As of April 2023, the number and rate of quits were at 3.8 million and 2.4%, a similar rate to the one at the beginning of the pandemic.The number of job openings as of April 2023 edged up to 10.1 million, representing a 6.1% rate.



Some economists have argued the entirety of the Great Resignation could be explained by the strong job market amid the recovery from the COVID-19 downturn. Strong labor markets enable more workers to quit their job for a better one, or perhaps to start a business without worrying too much about how hard it might be to find another job if things don't go as hoped.



While nonfarm employment as of March 2022 amounted to 99% of its level in February 2020, the labor force participation rate has recovered more slowly, advancing from 61.4% as of January 2021 to 62.4% by March 2022. still well short of 63.4% in February 2020. The tight supply of available labor has increased competition for labor among employers, fueling the quits rate.



Other explanations for the Great Resignation have ranged from the deterioration in working conditions during the pandemic to a mass reassessment of personal priorities in its wake. Whatever the underlying causes, so long as the job market remains tight JOLTS data will remain closely scrutinized as a gauge of labor demand and turnover.




What Is the U.S. Employment Situation Report?
The U.S. Employment Situation Report, or simply the employment, or jobs report, is a report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics on the first Friday of every month. The report is based on surveys of households and employers. It estimates the number of people on payroll in U.S. companies, the average number of hours worked every week, the average hourly earnings, and the unemployment rate.




How Does the BLS Collect Employment Data?
The BLS collects employment data through its professionally trained field economists, who survey individuals by house visits, phone calls, and video calls,




When Did the Great Resignation End?
By March 2023, the Great Resignation showed signs of slowing down as fewer workers quit their jobs and the job market became more competitive.


   The Bottom Line  

The job openings and labor turnover survey (JOLTS) is a monthly report done by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics that collects data from employers in order to measure job openings, new hires, the number of employees who quit or were laid off, and other forms of labor turnover.



By providing a detailed picture of the labor market, JOLTS is also a key indicator that gives insights into the labor market and the overall U.S. economy.
What Is a Jobber?  

"Jobber" is a slang term for a market maker on the London Stock Exchange prior to the mid-1980s. Jobbers, also called "stockjobbers," acted as market makers (MMs). They held shares on their own books and created market liquidity by buying and selling securities, and matching investors' buy and sell orders through their brokers, who were not allowed to make markets.



The term "jobber" is also used to describe a small-scale wholesaler or middleman in the retail goods trade.





Key Takeaways

A jobber, also known as a stockjobber, was a term used for a market maker on the London Stock Exchange.Jobbers held shares on their own accounts and help boost market liquidity by matching investors' buy and sell orders through their brokers.The term jobber was used prior to October 1986, but little is known of their actual activities as they kept few records.Jobbers left few records of their affairs and neither journalists nor other observers retained much in the way of detailed accountings of their work.The jobber system evolved into a recognizably modern form during the course of the 19th century, as the range of securities types broadened.


   Understanding Jobbers  

Little is known about jobbers' activities because they kept few records, but in the early 19th century, London had hundreds of jobbing firms. Jobbers' numbers declined dramatically over the course of the 20th century until they ceased to exist in October 1986. This month was when the financial "Big Bang" occurred, a major shift in the London Stock Exchange's operations, occurred. London's financial sector was suddenly deregulated, fixed commissions were replaced by negotiated commissions, and electronic trading was implemented.



Jobbers left few records of their affairs and neither journalists nor other observers retained much in the way of detailed accountings of their work. Oral histories of banks, stockbroking firms, and other concerns have been and will continue to be the primary basis of any historical record relating to jobbers.



The Centre for Metropolitan History has compiled an archive of interviews with former jobbers which serves as a permanent record of the last half-century of a distinctive part of the financial life of London.


   Special Considerations  

The jobber system evolved into a recognizably modern form during the course of the 19th century, as the range of securities types broadened. At least half the members of the London Stock Exchange began to specialize in making a continuous market in one of the leading types of these securities.



The distinction between these market-makers, or jobbers, and the brokers who dealt with them on behalf of the public was a clear-cut one but was essentially based on custom and tradition until 1909 when a single capacity was formally embodied in the London Stock Exchange rules. By 1914, over 600 jobbing firms were in existence, along with many one-man jobbing operations.



Those numbers steadily declined as the institutional investor supplanted the private one, and the scale of required jobbing capital increased dramatically. By the eve of "Big Bang," there were only five major jobbing firms on the floor of the London Stock Exchange, though this numerical decline did not necessarily denote a decline in the marketability provided by the system.




How Did Stockjobbing Originate?
Stockjobbing, or the professional trading of stocks on an exchange, has its origins in the 1690s following Britain's Financial Revolution. The result of these financial reforms was the emergence of joint-stock companies whose shares could be bought and sold freely. This led to the advent of regulated stock exchanges and the creation of "jobbers" to facilitate trading in these new shares.




When Did Jobbers Disappear?
Stockjobbers officially disappeared from British stock exchanges in October 1986, coinciding with a sudden deregulation of financial markets in the U.K. put into effect by then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. This deregulation meant that stockjobbers were no longer needed to facilitate stock trades; while at the same time, efforts to introduce electronic, screen-based trading were enacted that further led to their obsolescence.




What Was the Difference Between a Jobber and a Broker?
A stockjobber functioned like a market maker in stocks, buying and selling shares for their own account, and earning money from the bid-ask spread. A stockbroker instead facilitates orders on behalf of customers, earning a commission. A broker may have bought or sold securities from a jobber for their clients.
What Are Jobless Claims?  

Jobless claims are a statistic reported weekly by the U.S. Department of Labor that counts people filing to receive unemployment insurance benefits. There are two categories of jobless claims—initial, which comprises people filing for the first time, and continuing, which consists of unemployed people who have already been receiving unemployment benefits. Jobless claims are an important leading indicator of the state of the employment situation and the health of the economy.





Key Takeaways

Jobless claims measure how many people are out of work at a given time.Initial jobless claims represent new claimants for unemployment benefits.Continuing jobless claims are people who are continuing to receive benefits.It is generally a poor sign for the economy when a growing number of people who are willing to work can't find jobs.Because weekly jobless claims can be very volatile, many economists monitor the moving four-week average.


   Understanding Jobless Claims  

The nation's jobless claims are an extremely important indicator for macroeconomic analysis. A weekly report produced and published by the Department of Labor (DOL) tracks how many new people file for unemployment benefits in the previous week. As such, it is a good gauge of the U.S. job market. For instance, when more people file for unemployment benefits, it generally means fewer people have jobs, and vice versa.



Investors can use this report to form an opinion of the country's economic performance. But it is often very volatile data because it is reported on a weekly basis. The moving four-week average of jobless claims is often monitored rather than the weekly figure. The report is released Thursday mornings at 8:30 a.m. ET and can be a market-moving event.



During the economic downturn caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus, weekly jobless claims in the U.S. soared to historic levels as companies reduced their payrolls as business was halted due to social distancing. More than 30 million Americans filed for unemployment from mid-March to April 30, 2020, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.







Meanwhile, the unemployment rate hit 14.7% in April 2020. This number has since retreated to pre-pandemic levels, coming in at 3.8% for August 2023.






   How Jobless Claims Affect the Market  

As mentioned, the initial jobless claims measure emerging unemployment and the continued claims data measure the number of people still claiming unemployment benefits. The continued claims data is released one week later than the initial claims. For this reason, the initial claims usually have a higher impact on the financial markets.



Many financial analysts incorporate estimates of the report into their market forecast. If a weekly release on jobless claims comes insignificantly different than consensus estimates, this can move the markets higher or lower. Generally, the move is the inverse of the report. If initial jobless claims are down, the market will often rally upwards. If the initial jobless claims are up, the market may slump.



The Initial Jobless Claims Report gets a lot of press due to its simplicity and the basic assumption that the healthier the job market, the healthier the economy. That is, more people working means more disposable income in the economy, which leads to higher personal consumption and gross domestic product (GDP).


   Why Jobless Claims Matter to Investors  

Markets may react strongly to a mid-month jobless claims report, particularly if it shows a difference from the cumulative evidence of other recent indicators. For instance, if other indicators show a weakening economy, a surprise drop in jobless claims could slow down equity sellers and could actually lift stocks.



Sometimes this happens simply because there isn't any other recent data to chew on at the time. A favorable initial jobless claims report may also get lost in the shuffle of a busy news day and hardly be noticed by Wall Street.



Jobless claims are also used as inputs for the creation of models and indicators. For example, average weekly initial jobless claims are one of the 10 components of the Conference Board's Composite Index of Leading Indicators.




Is Jobless the Same as Unemployed?
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the labor force is made up of the employed and the unemployed. Those who have jobs are employed. Those who are jobless, looking for a job, and available for work, are unemployed.




What Are the Three Types of Unemployment?
The three types of unemployment are frictional (voluntary changes in employment), structural (changes in the structure of an economy, such as technology replacing workers), and cyclical (those jobs that are lost due to changes in the business cycle.)




Can I Collect Unemployment if I Quit My Job?
No, you cannot collect unemployment if you quit your job. Any voluntary unemployment is not eligible for unemployment benefits. This means you are only eligible for unemployment benefits if you are laid off, and in certain cases, if you are fired.


   The Bottom Line  

Jobless claims are the number of people filing weekly to receive unemployment insurance due to not having a job. It is an important leading indicator of the health of the economy. If jobless claims are growing, it signals a weakening economy. Conversely, if jobless claims are decreasing, it signals an improving economy.
What Is Jobless Recovery?  

A jobless recovery is a period in which the economy recovers from recession without reducing the unemployment rate.





Key Takeaways

A jobless recovery is a situation where economic recovery is occurring without a corresponding improvement to unemployment.Jobless recoveries can arise when companies have invested in automation and outsourcing in an effort to reduce costs which results in them not re-hiring the laid-off workers.At the aggregate level, the evidence of a jobless recovery is when the unemployment rate does not rise in line with GDP.


   Understanding Jobless Recovery  

When the economy shrinks, companies suffer from declining revenues. In response to this, they must adapt either by raising prices, gaining market share, or cutting costs. For most companies, raising prices and gaining market share is difficult in the best of times, let alone when the economy is shrinking. For that reason, most companies will choose to cut costs in order to survive tough economic times.



One of the largest costs for businesses is workers’ wages, so it is inevitable that many companies will respond to a recession by laying off workers or shifting jobs to less expensive workforces (i.e. outsourcing) and investing in automation. This "formula" is one of the main causes of jobless recoveries



As the economy eventually recovers, there is no guarantee that those companies will reverse their decisions and re-hire the workers that they laid off during the recession. Workers may therefore feel “left behind” by the growing economy: although corporate profits and gross domestic product (GDP) may have rebounded, individual workers’ incomes may not have improved.



At the aggregate level, the evidence of a jobless recovery is when the unemployment rate does not rise in line with GDP.


   Jobless Recovery Example  

Suppose you own an industrial manufacturing and distribution business. You have a factory employing 25 machinists, a distribution center employing 50 warehouse workers, and a headquarters employing 10 administrative employees. The total payroll cost for the three facilities is $1.25 million, $1.75 million, and $600,000, respectively, for a total of $3.6 million.



Your company earns $20 million in revenues and has a gross profit margin of 20%. After covering the cost of payroll, rent, and other expenses, you are left with a pre-tax profit of about $300,000.



Unfortunately, in the following year, the economy enters a recession and the first month produces revenues that are 25% below what they were in the same month last year. You anticipate that if the trend continues you will generate revenues of only $15 million. If left unchecked, this would lead to a very large loss and would likely force the company into bankruptcy, causing all 85 employees to lose their jobs.



Because your rent expense is fixed due to your lease agreements, your only option is to raise prices, gain new customers, decrease operating costs, or reduce payroll costs.



Determining that growing prices or market share will not be possible in the current economic environment, and that operating expenses are as low as they can be already, you conclude that the only way to keep the company alive is to aggressively reduce payroll expenses.



To that end, you purchase five factory robots and lay off 22 of the machinists; the remaining three machinists are those with the highest technical proficiency, who will now be responsible for operating the robots. You believe the total savings will be $1 million per year, after accounting for the maintenance cost of the new robots.



You then make similar changes at the warehouse, eliminating 35 positions and introducing 15 new robots, producing another $1 million in annual savings. Lastly, you outsource seven of the 10 administrative jobs to a low-cost outsourcing provider, resulting in savings of about $300,000. All told, you have reduced payroll expenses by about $2.3 million.



Five years later, revenues have slowly recovered to their pre-recession levels. However, your total number of staff are still roughly the same as they were following your aggressive reductions to payroll. In fact, your business is now much more profitable than it was prior to the recession, meaning you have no incentive to reverse the changes you made and re-hire the laid-off workers.



If you multiply this example across the thousands of companies that exist in the United States, you can begin to understand how an economic recovery can occur without a recovery of employment levels, giving rise to a jobless recovery.
What Is JGTRRA?  

The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act (JGTRRA) was a U.S. tax law Congress passed on May 23, 2003, which lowered the maximum individual income tax rate on corporate dividends to 15%.



The JGTRRA was put forward as part of an effort to jump-start the U.S. economy following the attacks of 9/11 and the 2001 recession. By reducing the amount of tax investors paid on dividends and capital gains, public companies were encouraged to pay dividends instead of holding onto their cash, thereby stimulating the overall economy.


   Understanding JGTRRA  

Following the recession of 2001 and the 9/11 attacks, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act (JGTRRA) was passed into law and did achieve its goal of spurring the U.S. economy. The law reduced the long-terms capital gains rate to 15% from 20%. More controversially, the law no longer treated capital gains as regular income but instead as long-term capital gains.



As also seen with EGTRRA, passed in June of 2001 during President George W. Bush’s first year as president, the law was not initially conceived to continue forever. By 2004 the U.S. economy was performing well, with GDP between 3-4%. Some economists consider the ideal range for GDP to be 2-3%. As we now know, the economy overheated with a variety of speculative new investments in housing and elsewhere leading to the crash of 2008, one of the worst recessions in U.S. history. As a result of the 2008 Great Recession, President Obama and Congress had their hands tied with both the EGTRRA of 2001 and the JGTRRA of 2003 and neither law was ended as intended when first passed. 


   Sunset Provisions and the JGTRRA  

The global economy is a delicate balancing act and many would argue the U.S. economy is now very much out of balance with a nearly $21.0 trillion budget debt. As any household knows, you cannot increase spending and reduce income and make ends meet without borrowing. It’s politically expedient to make short-term fixes during difficult times, but the question lingers whether there is any practical way to enforce the sunset provisions put into place at the time of passage. As just one example, the tax cuts passed in late 2017 call for the individual tax brackets to revert to their former levels by 2025. 



Sunset provisions have been around for a long time. Thomas Jefferson believed no law passed by one generation should continue into the next. At its most philosophical level, this generational concern has presided over the usage of sunset clauses as a form of fairness in society. The last thing the parents of one generation want is to leave the world worse off for their children. Given the recent popularity in U.S. politics of using the sunset clause as the only way to push through tax cuts, we now have a $21 trillion debt burden likely to affect several generations.
What Is Jobs Growth?  

Jobs growth is measured in the U.S. by the number of employees added to nonfarm payrolls monthly, as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). It is a key indicator of the pace of economic expansion. Nonfarm payrolls are part of the Employment Situation Summary published by the BLS, the widely followed statistical release better known as the monthly jobs report.





Key Takeaways

Jobs growth is measured by the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.A monthly increase of between 50,000 and 110,000 nonfarm payrolls is the steady-state jobs growth rate that is in line with the gradual expansion of the labor force.Jobs growth figures are released monthly and are subject to revisions over the next two months as additional survey results are collected.These figures often move financial markets as one of the most important and timely economic indicators.Farm employment and agricultural jobs aren't included in these calculations.


   Understanding Jobs Growth  

Jobs growth refers to the net increase in the number of nonfarm payrolls during the previous month. This number is widely followed because employment is crucial for economic performance.



A 2016 analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco estimated a monthly increase of between 50,000 and 110,000 nonfarm payrolls to be the steady-state jobs growth rate that is in line with the gradual expansion of the labor force. Bigger gains suggest growth above the trend, while smaller ones or outright losses may signal a slowdown.



That said, it is important to remember that the jobs growth numbers in the Employment Situation Summary are estimates. The numbers for a given month are revised in each of the next two monthly reports based on additional survey submissions. A monthly nonfarm payroll increase of about 130,000 is considered statistically significant.





187,000

The increase in total U.S. nonfarm payroll employment in Aug. 2023. The unemployment rate, derived from a separate survey, increased slightly to 3.8%.


   How Jobs Growth Is Measured  

The BLS compiles job growth data by surveying about 122,000 businesses and government agencies accounting for about 20% of total U.S. nonfarm employment. The Employment Situation Summary provides data from this "establishment survey" tracking nonfarm employment by industry as well as a separate household survey of employment status. The two surveys provide headline-making figures on job growth and unemployment.



Although nonfarm payrolls are subtotaled by industry, the most commonly reported number is the net change in U.S. payrolls from the preceding month, which estimates the number of jobs added outside the agricultural sector. Farm employment is excluded from the establishment survey because it is too seasonal and harder to estimate.






Because of how important it is to the economy, jobs growth is closely watched by the Federal Reserve as it makes changes to its monetary policy.


   How Jobs Growth Is Used in Investing  

As a comprehensive measure of U.S. employment and one of the earliest economic reports for a given month, the Employment Situation Summary often moves financial markets. In addition to tallying nonfarm payrolls, the establishment survey estimates average weekly hours worked—a measure of labor demand—as well as average hourly earnings, an early indicator of labor cost inflation.



Because of the report's importance to investors and policymakers, traders compare the numbers in it to the consensus of analysts' forecasts to get an early sense of whether, for example, nonfarm payroll gains in the latest month exceeded or trailed market expectations.



Since the numbers fluctuate from month to month and are subject to significant revisions, it takes more than a single report to establish a trend. Investors must also consider this metric in the context of other economic indicators. Despite those limitations, the monthly jobs growth figure remains a key indicator of how the economy is faring.




Where Do You Get Jobs Growth Numbers?
The Bureau of Labor Statistics gets job growth data from a survey of 122,000 businesses and government agencies, which account for about 20% of the total U.S. nonfarm employment.




What Jobs Have the Highest Growth Rate?
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the fastest-growing jobs from 2021 to 2031 will be nurse practitioners, wind turbine service technicians, ushers, lobby attendants, ticket takers, motion picture projectionists, and restaurant cooks.




How Many Jobs Are Needed for Growth in the U.S.?
A monthly increase of between 50,000 and 110,000 nonfarm payrolls is considered to be the steady-state jobs growth rate that is in line with the gradual expansion of the labor force as determined by a 2016 analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.


   The Bottom Line  

Jobs growth refers to the number of nonfarm payroll jobs added to the economy in a month. It is a leading indicator of the health of the economy. The more jobs added indicate a healthier economy. Between 50,000 and 110,000 nonfarm payrolls is considered to be a steady job growth rate that represents a gradual expansion of the labor force.
What Is the Jobseeker's Allowance? (JSA)  

The Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA) is a benefit for unemployed individuals in the U.K. who are actively seeking work. The allowance is intended to help minimize the cost of living for those seeking full-time employment.





Key Takeaways

The Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA) is an unemployment benefit available to certain unemployed citizens in the U.K. who are looking for work. Recipients seeking the JSA must prove that they are actively seeking work and are willing to take any job that pays a reasonable wage.Individuals applying must be allowed to live and work in the U.K. and generally be at least 18 (with some exceptions).Applicants must either be unemployed or not working more than 16 hours a week; they cannot be full-time students.


   Understanding the Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA)  

The Jobseeker's Allowance is a conditions-based benefit, meaning recipients must meet certain conditions in order to retain eligibility for payments. The main requirement for receiving the JSA is the recipient must provide proof on an ongoing basis that they are actively looking for employment. This condition was introduced to prevent unemployment benefits from becoming too easily available and accessible.


   Precursors to the JSA  

The first unemployment benefits in the U.K. were paid in 1911 with the passage of the National Insurance Act. The act covered 2.5 million workers and payments were intended as a supplement to other sources of income.



High unemployment rates following the end of World War I led to the creation of the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1920. This provided weekly unemployment benefits for 15 weeks.



In 1921, the government introduced the "seeking work" test as a condition to receive benefits. The test required recipients to show they were genuinely seeking employment and willing to accept any job paying a reasonable wage. Unemployment benefits have continued to evolve over the years, leading to the Jobseeker's Allowance.


   Eligibility for the JSA  

The Jobseeker's Allowance is available to an individual who has the right to work in the U.K. and lives in England, Scotland, or Wales. They must be under the state pension age but older than 18 (although some 16- or 17-year-old workers may qualify). They must be available for work, not a full-time student, and not be working more than 16 hours per week.



The JSA recipient must sign on at Jobcentre Plus every two weeks, allowing the Jobcentre to assess whether sufficient efforts are being made to secure employment. Benefits may be stopped if the Jobcentre determines the claimant is not fulfilling their job-seeking obligations, is failing to attend interviews, or is turning down offers of employment or training.





JSA Calculator

A Jobseeker's Allowance Calculator is available on the U.K. Government website.


   Types of JSA  

There are three types of Jobseeker's Allowance: new style JSA, contribution-based JSA, and income-based JSA. Individuals who've worked for two to three years and have paid Class 1 National Insurance Contributions are eligible for the new style JSA. Payments last for six months and the income and savings of the recipient's partner do not impact their benefits.



The contribution-based JSA is available for those who receive or who are entitled to receive severe disability premiums. In addition, they must have also paid Class 1 National Insurance Contributions over the past two to three years.



The income-based JSA is for those who receive or who are entitled to receive severe disability premiums but haven't worked over the past two to three years. The recipient must have £16,000 or less in savings (including the recipient's partner's savings). In addition, the claimant's partner cannot be working more than 24 hours per week.




How Much Is the Jobseeker's Allowance in the U.K.?
If you qualify for the Jobseeker's Allowance in the U.K., you may be eligible for up to £67.20 per week if you are 18 to 24 or £84.80 per week if you are 25 and over. The exact amount will depend on various factors.




How Does the Jobseeker's Allowance Work in the U.K.?
The Jobseeker's Allowance in the U.K. seeks to assist unemployed individuals with the cost of living. If unemployed individuals have paid into the National Insurance, then they will receive a non-means-tested contribution, while those who have not paid into the system will receive means-based-tested contributions.




Do I Have to Register as Unemployed in the U.K.?
To receive benefits from the Jobseeker's Allowance program or the Universal Credit program in the U.K., you do have to register with Jobcentre Plus.


   The Bottom Line  

The Jobseeker's Allowance program in the U.K. helps reduce the cost of living for those that are currently unemployed and looking for work. The program comes with various factors for eligibility as well as follow-ups with job centers.
What Is the Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR)?  

The Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR) is the money market rate that is used in South Africa. The benchmark for short-term loans and instruments, the rate comes in one-month, three-month, six-month, and 12-month discount terms. The 3-month JIBAR rate is the most widely used and accepted.



An individual or business that seeks to borrow money from a South African bank will typically be quoted a rate tied to the three-month JIBAR, the most commonly used. For example, the rate quoted to a borrower looking to get a mortgage may be ‘JIBAR + 7%.’ As rates in the money market increase, the cost of borrowing also increases, and vice versa.





key takeaways

The Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR) is the benchmark for short-term interest rates in South Africa.Derived from the bid and offer rates from eight major banks, JIBAR comes in terms ranging from one to 12 months, with the three-month rate the most commonly used reference.JIBAR rates are used in setting bank certificate of deposit rates, loan rates, and futures contract rates.


   Understanding the Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR)  

Today, the Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR) is used as the benchmark for short-term interest rates in the South African markets. It is determined as an average of the borrowing and lending rates indicated by a number of local and international banks. JIBAR is calculated as a yield and then converted into a discount.



The rate is calculated daily by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange for one-month, three-month, six-month, and 12-month discount terms after all bid and offer rates are received by participating banks. The derived rate is then used by banks to buy and sell their own Negotiable Certificates of Deposit (NCDs).



The bid and offer rates used to calculate JIBAR are submitted by eight banks that transact with NCDs of at least 100 million rands (the South African currency). A mid-rate is calculated as a halfway point between the bid and offer rates provided by contributors. The two highest and two lowest mid-rates are discarded, and the remaining four mid rates are averaged to arrive at JIBAR.



While JIBAR represents NCD rates, it also represents, to a lesser extent, the cost of funding in the foreign exchange (FX) forward and the domestic market for fixed bank deposits.





6.8%

The three-month JIBOR as of Jan. 2, 2020


   Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR) and Derivatives  

JIBAR is also an important tool in the interest rate derivatives market. JIBAR Futures (STIR) are short-term interest rate futures contracts which have the three-month Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate as the underlying instrument. This exchange-traded contract has a value at its expiration of 100 minus the three-month JIBAR rate at the expiry date. The contract is an efficient way to gain exposure to the South African interest rate market and can be utilized by hedgers seeking protection against adverse interest rate movements and speculators hoping to take advantage of short-term movements in interest rates.



The value of the STIR contract decreases as the expected three-month JIBAR rate at futures expiry increases. When interest rates are expected to go up, an investor or trader will short the contract. Investors go long the contract when they believe interest rates will decrease at some point in the future.


   Example of the Johannesburg Interbank Average Rate (JIBAR)  

The calculation of a South African reference rate started in the 1990s with the South African Futures Exchange (Safex) Bank Bill rate. The current reference rate system was established in 1999. Prior to November 2012, the acronym stood for the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate.



According to the South African Reserve Bank, the three-month JIBOR averaged 8.19% from 1999 until 2020, reaching an all-time high of 16.96% in February 1999 and a record low of 5.06% in September 2012.






The current JIBAR rate is available daily from Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg.



Other equivalent short-term reference rates include the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), Nigerian Interbank Offered Rate (NIBOR), Norwegian Inter-Bank Offered Rate (NIBOR), etc.
Who Is John B. Taylor?  

John B. Taylor is the Mary and Robert Raymond Professor of Economics at Stanford University and a Senior Fellow of Economics at the Hoover Institution. He is also the Director of Stanford University Introductory Economics Center﻿﻿. His fields of expertise include macroeconomics, monetary policy, and international economics. He is best known for his work creating an interest rate forecasting tool that came to be known as, The Taylor Rule. The Taylor Rule asserts that the real interest rate should be 1.5 times the inflation rate, based on several macroeconomic assumptions.﻿﻿


   More On John B. Taylor  

He served on the President's Council of Economic Advisers from 1976-1977, and from 1989-1991. He was also a member of the Congressional Budget Office of Economic Advisers from 1995-2001. Taylor has also served as under-secretary of the Treasury for international affairs under the George W. Bush administration. In his home state of California, Taylor served as a member of the California Governor's Council of Economic Advisors from 1996-1998 and 2005-2010.﻿﻿



Taylor is the author of hundreds of books and studies, including his landmark 1993 paper, Discretion Vs. Policy Rules in Practice, in which he introduced the arguments that came to be known as The Taylor Rule. He is a frequent guest on financial television, radio, and podcasts and has penned hundreds of articles and op-eds around macroeconomics and monetary policy. He has also been the recipient of dozens of distinguished awards in the field of Economics, including the 2016 Adam Smith Awards from the Association of Private Enterprise Education and the 2015 Truman Medal for Economic Policy.  



In addition to his work at Stanford University, Taylor has also taught at Columbia University and the Woodrow Wilson School of Princeton. He graduated summa cum laude from Princeton with a B.A. in Economics in 1968 and received his Ph.D. in Economics from Stanford University in 1973.﻿﻿
John Bogle was the founder of the Vanguard Group and a major proponent of index investing. Commonly referred to as "Jack," Bogle revolutionized the mutual fund world by creating index investing, which allows investors to buy mutual funds that track the broader market. He did this with the overall intent to make investing easier and at a low cost for the average investor.



He died on Jan. 16, 2019, at the age of 89.





Key Takeaways

John Bogle was an investor and founder of the Vanguard Group, one of the largest investment firms in the world.Bogle created index investing, which allows investors to buy mutual funds that track the broader market.Bogle introduced the Vanguard 500 fund, which tracks the returns of the S&P 500 and marked the first index fund marketed to retail investors.One of Bogle's pioneering achievements was low-cost investing in mutual funds by creating no-load funds.Index investing utilizes a passive investment strategy that requires a manager to only ensure that the fund's holdings match those of the benchmark index.Common Sense on Mutual Funds: New Imperatives for the Intelligent Investor is a book Bogle wrote on investing that has since become a classic for investors worldwide.












Investopedia / Hugo Lin


   Early Life and Education  

John Bogle was born on May 8, 1929, in Montclair, New Jersey. He attended Blair Academy which was paid for by his uncle, as his family had lost most of their wealth in the 1929 stock market crash. John Bogle attended Princeton University where he studied economics.



In his early career, he joined Wellington Management in 1951 and attempted to persuade them to change their strategy of focusing on one investment fund to many. He eventually became chairman of Wellington but was fired after a poorly made merger decision. He then founded his own mutual fund company, Vanguard Group, in 1974.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  Vanguard  

With Vanguard, Bogle employed a novel ownership structure in which the shareholders of mutual funds became part owners of the funds in which they invested. The funds themselves own the investment firm, making the fund investors indirect owners of the firm itself. This structure allows the firm to incorporate any profits into its operating structure, reducing investment costs for fund investors.



In 1976, Bogle introduced the Vanguard 500 fund, which tracks the returns of the S&P 500 and marked the first index fund marketed to retail investors. Bogle’s unique structure for Vanguard also made it a natural fit for the provision of no-load mutual funds, which do not charge a commission on investment purchases.






An index fund is an investment fund, such as an ETF or mutual fund with a portfolio that is constructed to match that of a specific market index.



When the Vanguard 500 fund was launched in its initial iteration, it raised only $11 million in its first underwriting in 1976. As of July 28, 2022, the fund manages more than $709 billion in assets.



Bogle retired as CEO and chair of Vanguard in 1999 and wrote Common Sense on Mutual Funds: New Imperatives for the Intelligent Investor the same year, which has since become a classic for investors worldwide.


  Legacy  

John Bogle contributed significantly to the popularity of index investing, in which a fund maintains a mix of investments that track a major market index. Bogle’s philosophy that average investors would find it difficult or impossible to beat the market over time led him to prioritize ways to reduce expenses associated with investing in mutual funds. For example, Bogle focused on no-load funds featuring low turnover and simple investment strategies.



The philosophy behind passive investing generally rests upon the idea that the expenses associated with chasing high market returns cancel out most or all of the gains an investor would otherwise achieve with a passive strategy that relies upon funds with lower turnover, management fees, and expense ratios.



Passive investing stands in contrast to active investing, which requires managers to take a more hands-on role with the intent of outperforming the market.



Index funds fit this model nicely because they base their holdings on the securities listed on any given index. Investors who purchase shares in index funds gain the benefit of the diversity represented by all the securities on an index.



This protects against the risk that a given company will lower the performance of the overall fund. Index funds also more or less run themselves, as managers only need to ensure their holdings match those of the index they follow. This keeps fees lower for index funds than for funds with more active trading.



Finally, because index funds require fewer trades to maintain their portfolios than funds with more active management schemes, index funds tend to produce more tax-efficient returns than other types of funds.




What Was John Bogle's Net Worth?
At the time of his death in 2019, John Bogle's net worth was approximately $80 million. He earned the bulk of that money as the founder of the investment management company, Vanguard.




Who Invented Passive Investing?
John Bogle, the founder of the investment management firm, Vanguard, invented passive investing. By doing so, he created a new industry focused on this type of investing as opposed to the traditional method of investing, active investing. He is known as the "Father of Passive Investing."




What Is the Difference Between an ETF and an Index Fund?
An ETF can be bought and sold on an exchange like a stock at any point whereas an index fund can only be traded at the end of the day at the set price point. ETFs provide greater flexibility than index funds.


   The Bottom Line  

John Bogle is a titan in the history of investment management by starting the Vanguard Group, one of the largest investment management firms in the world. Through Vanguard he popularized passive investing, making it easier for average investors to invest their capital and generate returns with low risks.
John Elkann may not necessarily be a household name, but he's certainly associated with a number of corporations with which many people are familiar, notably Fiat, Chrysler, and Ferrari.



Although he comes from a long line of industrialists who established the Fiat name, Elkann has established himself as an executive with drive and a vision. Keep reading to find out more about John Elkann's early life, education, career background, and other interests.





Key Takeaways

John Elkann is the chair and CEO of Exor, a holding firm that has interests in Fiat and Ferrari.Elkann was born in New York and lived in the U.K., Brazil, France, and Italy.He is a member of the Agnelli family, which started the Fiat auto brand.Elkann assumed the role of board member of Fiat in 1997 and became chair in 2010.He oversaw the acquisition of Chrysler by Fiat, along with the merger between Fiat Chrysler and Peugeot, which led to the creation of a new entity called Stellantis.


   Early Life and Education  

John Elkann is a member of the powerful Agnelli family that controlled the Italian automaker Fiat. He was born in New York City in 1976. He traveled extensively as a child and lived in several countries, including the United Kingdom, Brazil, France, and Italy. This helped him become fluent in four languages: Italian, English, Spanish, and Portuguese. According to Elkann, his "life was always about being confronted with an environment where you had to adapt.”



He studied sciences at the Lycée Victor Duruy in Paris and earned an engineering degree from Politecnico di Torino in Turin, Italy in 2001. He held a number of internships that allowed him to see how the automotive industry works.



These experiences allowed him to see the factory, marketing, and sales aspects of the company. His background included a headlamp factory in the U.K., a production line in Poland, and a car dealership in France. By the time he landed a seat on Fiat’s board in 1997, Elkann was already writing his undergraduate thesis on e-auctions as a part of General Electric’s corporate initiatives group.


   Notable Accomplishments  

Elkann is the chair of automakers Stellantis and Ferrari. He is also a board member, chair, and chief executive officer (CEO) of Exor, a holding company that has a stake in both automakers. He ranked in the 1,445th spot on Forbes's billionaire's list with a net worth totaling $2.1 billion as of May 18, 2022.



He was raised to take part in the family business under his grandfather Gianni Agnelli's direction. As such, he became a member of Fiat's board in 1997 at the insistence of his grandfather after the death of his cousin, Giovanni Alberto Agnelli.



In 2004, Elkann became vice-chair of Fiat, a year after his grandfather's death. The company was suffering from the poor reputation its vehicles had when it came to reliability. Elkann worked closely with management and helped to turn the company around. He became chair of the company in 2010 at the age of 36 when Luca Cordero di Montezemolo stepped down.






Stellantis owns many famous car brands, including Fiat, Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Peugeot, Maserati, Alfa Romeo, and Citroen.



During his time leading the company, Elkann oversaw the acquisition of Chrysler in 2009. He was also instrumental in the 2021 merger of Fiat Chrysler and Peugeot, which resulted in a new entity named Stellantis. The newly formed company has an industrial presence in about 30 countries as well as commercially in 130 markets.



Elkann also holds a number of positions outside of his corporate interests in automaking. Exor owns an interest in Juventus Football Club, which gives Elkann a stake in the club. The league, which is based in Turin, was founded in 1897 and is owned by the Agnelli family.




Who Owns Ferrari?
Ferrari is a public company, which means it is primarily owned by shareholders; however, the largest owner of Ferrari is the Agnelli family, through its holding company, Exor, which owns 22.9% of Ferrari.




How Rich Is John Elkann?
John Elkann's net worth as of May 18, 2022, was $2.1 billion. He is part of the wealthy Agnelli family that started the car company, Fiat. Elkann is also chair of Stellantis and chair and CEO of Exor.




What Famous Family Owns Juventus?
The football club, Juventus FC, is owned by the Agnelli family through its holding company, Exor.


   The Bottom Line  

John Elkann is the head of the Agnelli family, which is renowned for founding the automaker, Fiat, and having a hand in many other car brands, such as Ferrari. Elkann holds important roles in famous companies, including being the chair of Fiat and Ferrari, as well as the chair and CEO of Exor, which manages his family's investments.
John Forbes Nash, Jr. was an American mathematician. He was born in 1928 in West Virginia and was a pioneer in the study of differential geometry and partial differential equations. He also developed an equilibrium theory known as the Nash Equilibrium (of which the prisoner's dilemma is a well-known example). Nash won the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with two other individuals, for his development of the mathematical foundations of game theory. Nash died in a car crash in 2015.





Key Takeaways

John Forbes Nash Jr. was an American mathematician who was born in 1928.Nash was a pioneer in differential geometry and partial differential equations.He won the Nobel Prize in 1994 in economics, sharing it with two others, and the Abel Prize in 2015.He is credited with developing several mathematical concepts, including the Nash embedding theorems.Nash died in 2015 in a car crash in New Jersey.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Early Life and Education  

John F. Nash, Jr. was born in Bluefield, West Virginia, in 1928. Instead of economics, Nash studied math at Carnegie Institute of Technology and later earned his doctorate from Princeton University at the age of 22. It was at Princeton that he began work on his equilibrium theory. He worked at MIT and for the RAND Corporation.



Nash was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia in 1959. The condition had a negative impact on his career for more than two decades. By the early 1970s, Nash received treatment that allowed his condition to improve to the point that he was able to begin teaching again at Princeton.



He served as a senior research mathematician at the school for the last 20 years of his life. There, he later became known as the Phantom of Fine Hall for his habit of filling blackboards with complex equations during the night when no one else was around.



In 2015, John and Alicia Nash were killed when the taxi they were riding in crashed in New Jersey. He was 86 and she was 82. They were returning from Norway, where Nash was awarded the 2015 Abel Prize from the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.






Nash was portrayed by Russell Crowe in the 2001 Academy Award-winning film A Beautiful Mind. The film chronicles his life, along with that of his wife Alicia, as they struggled between his genius and his mental illness. It was based on the 1998 biography by Sylvia Nasar.


   Notable Accomplishments and Deeds  

Nash is credited with several key mathematical theories that helped him forge a name in the field. These included the following:



The Nash-Moser inverse function theoremThe Nash–De Giorgi theoremThe Nash embedding theorems, which the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters said were "among the most original results in geometric analysis of the twentieth century.”



Nash offered a speech that looked back on his tumultuous but accomplished life and concluded:



"Statistically, it would seem improbable that any mathematician or scientist, at the age of 66, would be able through continued research efforts, to add much to his or her previous achievements. However I am still making the effort and it is conceivable that with the gap period of about 25 years of partially deluded thinking providing a sort of vacation my situation may be atypical. Thus I have hopes of being able to achieve something of value through my current studies or with any new ideas that come in the future."


  Awards  

As noted above, Nash was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1994. He shared the award with two other individuals, John C. Harsanyi and Reinhard Selten. They were given the prize "for their pioneering analysis of equilibria in the theory of non-cooperative games.”



Nash also received the Abel Prize in 2015. Named after Niels Henrik Abel, it is Norway's award for those who achieve milestones in the field of mathematics. It is awarded on behalf of the country's education ministry by the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letter.


  Legacy  

As noted earlier, Nash made great strides with his work in mathematics. He developed several mathematical concepts, including the Nash embedding theorem. Through his work, he was also able to recognize the difference between cooperative (those where multiple players have the same objective) and non-cooperative games (games that involve individual players who compete with one another).




What Did John Nash Jr. Study?
John Nash Jr. studied math at Carnegie Institute of Technology. He earned his doctorate at Princeton University in math. He graduated from Princeton at the age of 22.




What Mathematical Concepts Are Attributed to John Nash Jr.?
Nash is associated with several mathematical concepts, including the Nash-Moser inverse function theorem and the Nash–De Giorgi theorem. But his most famous work is probably the Nash embedding theorems, which the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letter called the "most original results in geometric analysis."




Why Was John Nash Jr. Awarded the Nobel Prize?
John Nash Jr. was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics in 1994. He shared the prize with two others (John C. Harsanyi and Reinhard Selten) "for their pioneering analysis of equilibria in the theory of non-cooperative games."


   The Bottom Line  

John F. Nash Jr. was a pioneer in mathematics. He is credited with developing several mathematical concepts and won several awards for his work in the theory of non-cooperative games. Although he may not be a household name, his life was the subject of a Hollywood movie. The mental health challenges he faced and his accomplishments are among the central themes of "A Beautiful Mind" starring Russell Crowe.
John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946) was an early 20th-century British economist, best known as the founder of Keynesian economics and the father of modern macroeconomics, the study of how economies—markets and other systems that operate on a large scale—behave. One of the hallmarks of Keynesian economics is that governments should actively try to influence the course of economies, especially by increasing spending to stimulate demand in the face of recession.



In his seminal work, The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money—considered one of the most influential economics books in history—he advocates government intervention as a solution to high unemployment.





Key Takeaways

British economist John Maynard Keynes is the founder of Keynesian economics.Keynesian economics argues that demand drives supply and that healthy economies spend or invest more than they save.To create jobs and boost consumer buying power during a recession, Keynes held that governments should increase spending, even if it means going into debt.Critics attack Keynesian economics for promoting deficit spending, stifling private investment, and causing inflation.


   Education and Early Career  

Keynes’ early interest in economics was due in large part to his father, John Neville Keynes, an Economics lecturer at Cambridge University. His mother, one of Cambridge's first female graduates, was active in charitable works for the underprivileged.



Born into a middle-class family, he received scholarships to two of the most elite schools in England, Eton College and Cambridge University, where he earned an undergraduate degree in mathematics in 1904. Of note, throughout his academic career, he excelled at mathematics—and he had almost no formal training in economics.



Early in his career, Keynes worked on probability theory and lectured in Economics as Fellow of King's College at Cambridge University. Government roles ranged from official positions in the British Civil Service and the British Treasury to appointments to royal commissions on currency and finance, including his 1919 appointment as the Treasury’s financial representative at the Versailles peace conference that ended World War I.


   Advocacy of Government Intervention in the Economy  

Keynes' father was an advocate of laissez-faire economics, an economic philosophy of free-market capitalism that opposes government intervention. Keynes himself was a conventional believer in the principles of the free market (and an active investor in the stock market) during his time at Cambridge.



However, after the 1929 stock market crash triggered the Great Depression, Keynes came to believe that unrestricted free-market capitalism was essentially flawed and needed to be reformulated, not only to function better in its own right but also to outperform competitive systems like communism.



As a result, he began advocating for government intervention to curb unemployment and correct economic recession. In addition to government jobs programs, he argued that increased government spending was necessary to decrease unemployment—even if it meant a budget deficit.


   What Is Keynesian Economics?  

The theories of John Maynard Keynes, known as Keynesian economics, center around the idea that governments should play an active role in their countries' economies, instead of just letting the free market reign. Specifically, Keynes advocated federal spending to mitigate downturns in business cycles.



The most basic principle of Keynesian economics is that demand—not supply—is the driving force of an economy. At the time, conventional economic wisdom held the opposite view: that supply creates demand. Because aggregate demand—the total spending for and consumption of goods and services by the private sector and the government—drives supply, total spending determines all economic outcomes, from the production of goods to the employment rate.



Another basic principle of Keynesian economics is that the best way to pull an economy out of a recession is for the government to increase demand by infusing the economy with capital. In short, consumption (spending) is the key to economic recovery.



These two principles are the basis of Keynes' belief that demand is so important that, even if a government has to go into debt to spend, it should do so. According to Keynes, the government boosting the economy in this way will stimulate consumer demand, which in turn spurs production and ensures full employment.


   Criticism of Keynesian Economics  

Although widely adopted after World War II, Keynesian economics has attracted plenty of criticism since the ideas were first introduced in the 1930s.



One major criticism deals with the concept of big government—the expansion of federal initiatives that must occur to enable the government to participate actively in the economy. Rival economic theorists, like those of the Chicago School of Economics, argue that: economic recessions and booms are part of the natural order of business cycles; direct government intervention only worsens the recovery process, and federal spending discourages private investment.



The most famous critic of Keynesian economics was Milton Friedman, an American economist best known for his advocacy of free-market capitalism. Considered the most influential economist of the second half of the 20th century—as Keynes was the most influential economist of the first half—Friedman advocated monetarism, which refuted important parts of Keynesian economics.



In contrast to Keynes’ position that fiscal policy—government spending and tax policies to influence economic conditions—is more important than monetary policy—control of the overall supply of money available to banks, consumers, and businesses—Friedman and fellow monetarists held that governments could foster economic stability by targeting the growth rate of the money supply. In short, Friedman and monetarist economists advocate the control of money in the economy, while Keynesian economists advocate government expenditure.



For example, while Keynes believed that an interventionist government could moderate recessions by using fiscal policy to prop up aggregate demand, spur consumption, and reduce unemployment, Friedman criticized deficit spending and argued for a return to the free market, including smaller government and deregulation in most areas of the economy—supplemented by a steady increase of the money supply.





Keynesian vs. Laissez-Faire Economics

With its advocacy of government intervention in the economy, Keynesian economics is in sharp contrast to laissez-faire economics, which argues that the less the government is involved in economic affairs, the better for business and society as a whole.


   Examples of Keynesian Economics  
  The New Deal  

The onset of the Great Depression in the 1930s significantly influenced Keynes’ economic theories and led to the widespread adoption of several of his policies.



To address the crisis in the U.S., President Franklin Roosevelt enacted the New Deal, a series of government programs that directly reflected the Keynesian principle that even a free-enterprise capitalist system requires some federal oversight.



With the New Deal, the U.S. government intervened to stimulate the national economy on an unprecedented scale, including creating several new agencies focused on providing jobs to unemployed Americans and stabilizing the price of consumer goods. Roosevelt also adopted Keynes' policy of expanded deficit spending to stimulate demand, including programs for public housing, slum clearance, railroad construction, and other massive public works.


   Great Recession Spending  

In response to the Great Recession of 2007–2009, President Barack Obama took several steps that reflected Keynesian economic theory. The federal government bailed out debt-ridden companies in several industries. It also took into conservatorship Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two major market makers and guarantors of mortgages and home loans.



In 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, an $831-billion government stimulus package designed to save existing jobs and create new ones. It included tax cuts/credits and unemployment benefits for families; it also earmarked expenditures for healthcare, infrastructure, and education.


   COVID-19 Stimulus Checks  

In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic of 2020, the U.S. government under President Donald Trump and President Joseph Biden offered a variety of relief, loan-forgiveness, and loan-extension programs.



The U.S. government also supplemented weekly state unemployment benefits and sent American taxpayers direct aid in the form of three separate, tax-free stimulus checks.


   Legacy  

Since the 1930s, the popularity of Keynesian economics has risen and fallen, and the theories have undergone considerable revision since Keynes' day. However, the economic school of thought he founded has left one indelible stamp on modern nations: the idea that governments have a role to play in business—even in capitalist economies.




Who Said Keynesian Economics Was Spending Your Way out of a Recession?
It was Milton Friedman who attacked the central Keynesian idea that consumption is the key to economic recovery as trying to "spend your way out of a recession." Unlike Keynes, Friedman believed that government spending and racking up debt eventually leads to inflation—a rise in prices that lessens the value of money and wages—which can be disastrous unless accompanied by underlying economic growth. The stagflation of the 1970s was a case in point: It was paradoxically a period with high unemployment and low production, but also high inflation and high-interest rates.




Was Keynes a Socialist?
It is difficult to pigeonhole Keynes as a socialist.On the one hand, he showed an interest in socialist regimes and advocated the presence of government in economic affairs. He emphatically did not believe in letting business cycles go through boom and bust without intervention—or in letting private enterprise operate unfettered.On the other hand, Keynes stopped short of advocating that governments actually take over and run industries. He wanted central authorities to stimulate, but not necessarily control, methods of production.There is also evidence that he was returning to more traditional free-market capitalism towards the end of his life, as he was considering ways to get post-war Britain out of an economic hole. Shortly before his death in 1946, he told his friend, Secretary of State Henry Clay, that he found himself relying more on a solution he had “tried to eject from economic thinking twenty years ago": Adam Smith’s invisible hand (the natural tendency of a free-market economy to self-correct via the laws of supply and demand).




What Did Keynes Mean by “In the Long Run, We Are All Dead”?
When critics argued that Keynesian support of public financing and deficit spending would lead to default in the long run, Keynes' famous retort was that “In the long run, we are all dead.” In context, his point was that governments should solve problems in the short run rather than wait for market forces to correct problems over the long run—“when we are all dead.”




Did Keynes Predict the Rise of Nazi Germany?
During the 1919 Versailles Peace Conference, Keynes was an outspoken critic of the crippling economic measures certain senior statesmen wanted to impose on Germany. When his warnings that these harsh sanctions would likely result in economic and political catastrophe for Europe went unheeded, he left the conference early in protest.As soon as he returned to the U.K., he resigned from the British Treasury and summarized his arguments about the dangers of a peace treaty designed to permanently crush Germany in The Economic Consequences of the Peace.Within a year of its publication in 1920, Keynes’ book had become a bestseller that strongly influenced public opinion that the Treaty of Versailles was unfair. As the political and economic turmoil of the 1930s fueled the rise of fascism that exploded into World War II, Keynes’ early warnings began to sound prophetic as well.


   The Bottom Line  

John Maynard Keynes and Keynesian economics were revolutionary in the 1930s and did much to shape post-World War II economies in the mid-20th century. His theories came under attack in the 1970s, saw a resurgence in the 2000s, and are still debated today.



A core principle of Keynesian economics is that the best way to pull an economy out of a recession is for the government to increase demand by infusing the economy with capital. In short, consumption (spending) is the key to economic recovery.



Just as Keynes was considered the most influential economist of the first half of the 20th century, his most famous critic, Milton Friedman, an advocate of monetarism, was considered the most influential economist of the second half.



Keynes left one significant legacy: the concept that governments have a role to play in the economic well-being of industries and people. The questions that remain are how big the government's role should be and how best to execute that role.
John Richard Hicks was a British neo-Keynesian economist. Hicks was born in the United Kingdom in 1904 and studied at Oxford University where he also lectured. During his career, Hicks became well known for his contributions to labor economics, utility and price theory, macroeconomics, and welfare economics. He received the 1972 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics, sharing it with Kenneth Arrow for their advancement of general equilibrium theory and welfare theory.





Key Takeaway

John R. Hicks was a neo-Keynesian economist.He was noted for his wide-ranging contributions to microeconomic and macroeconomic theory. His major contributions to economic theory include the advances in microeconomic price and utility theory, the Hicks compensation test in welfare economics, and the IS-LM model in macroeconomics.Hicks was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1972 for his work in general equilibrium and welfare economics.Hicks was born in 1904 and died at the age of 85 in 1989.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

John R. Hicks was born in the United Kingdom in Warwick on April 8, 1904. He studied at Clifton College and Oxford University between 1917 and 1926 where he focused on economics, math, philosophy, and politics.



After graduating, he lectured at the London School of Economics and Political Science from 1926 to 1935. He also taught at Cambridge University and the University of Manchester before returning to Oxford in 1946.



Hicks married fellow economist Ursula Webb in 1935. The couple had no children. He was knighted in 1964 for his work in economics and was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1972. Hicks died on May 20, 1989.






Hicks' wife, Ursula Webb, was one of the founders of the Review of Economic Studies. The academic journal was established in 1933 for young economists.


   Notable Accomplishments  

Hicks made several important contributions to economic theory during his career. These contributions ranged from fundamental neoclassical price theory to macroeconomic modeling. 


  Honors and Awards  

Hicks was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1972. He shared the honor with Kenneth J. Arrow, another neoclassical economist. Their work on general equilibrium analysis and welfare economics earned them the award. Before he was awarded the Nobel Prize, Hicks was knighted in 1964. He also received a number of honorary doctorate degrees from several universities in the U.K.


  Published Works  

Hicks’ first book, Theory of Wages, developed the microeconomics of wage determination in competitive and regulated labor markets. In this work, he introduced the concept of elasticity of substitution between capital and labor, which became his basis to dispute Karl Marx's theory by arguing that labor-saving technological progress does not necessarily reduce labor’s share of income. This book became a standard textbook on labor economics for decades.



In his early papers and his second book, Value and Capital, he advanced the utility and price theory with his introduction of the Hicksian compensated demand curve. He also explored the concept of composite goods to simplify demand modeling along with the exploration of the income effect and substitution effect.



Hicks also advanced the microeconomic analysis of interactions in Value and Capital between markets by formalizing a model of comparative statics and introduced Walrasian general equilibrium theory to the English-speaking world. These models show how changes in markets impact conditions in other markets and how all the individual markets in an economy interact to yield an overall equilibrium for all markets. 


  Legacy  

Hicks is well known for making four major contributions to the field of economics. His first is the elasticity of substitution. It was used to demonstrate how labor-saving processes don't have a direct impact on the reduction of the share of national income.



Hicks’ IS-LM model formalized Keynesian macroeconomic theory to show how an economy can be in equilibrium with less-than-full employment. The IS-LM model depicts macroeconomic equilibrium as a product of the interaction of financial markets and real goods markets. This model is a common classroom tool in macroeconomics and is sometimes used to assess macroeconomic stabilization policies, as well as economic fluctuations.



His book Value and Capital, which was published in 1939, is generally considered his third major accomplishment in economics. The Hicksian price and utility models he introduced in the book mathematically demonstrate how consumer preferences, price changes, and income interact to shape demand for goods and are still used as foundational elements of price theory in microeconomics.



In welfare economics, Hicks is well known for his Hicks compensation principle, also known as Hicks efficiency. This concept can be used as a criterion to judge the costs and benefits of changes to the economy and economic policy by comparing the losses for the losers with the gains for the winners.




What Is John R. Hicks Known for?
John R. Hicks is best known for significant work in the field of economics and is considered one of the most influential economists of the 20th century. His major accomplishments include his contributions to labor economics, utility and price theory, and macroeconomics. He also made great strides in his theories about welfare economics. Hicks was awarded the Nobel Prize with Kenneth Arrow for their work on general equilibrium theory and welfare theory.




Why Did John R. Hicks Win the Nobel Prize?
John Hicks won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1972 with Kenneth J. Arrow. The two economists were awarded the prize for their work on general equilibrium analysis and welfare economics.




What Was John R. Hicks' IS-LM Model?
Hicks' IS-LM Model is designed to show the relationship between the market for economic goods and loanable funds, which is also known as the money market. The former is called IS (or investment savings) while the latter is known as LM. The model is depicted on a graph where the IS and LM intersect at the point where between the short-run equilibrium and the interest rates and output. It is often used to highlight how market preference changes affect the balance of interest rates and GDP.


   The Bottom Line  

John R. Hicks is often considered one of the most influential economists of the 20th century. He is credited with making significant contributions to several areas of the field, including labor economics and welfare economics. But it was his work with Kenneth Arrow involving general equilibrium theory and welfare theory that won the two men the Nobel Prize in 1972.
John Stuart Mill (1806-1873) was an influential philosopher, economist, politician, and senior official in the East India Company. A controversial figure in 19th-century Britain, he advocated the use of classical economic theory, philosophical thought, and social awareness in political decision-making and legislation. Many of his views, including those on the legal status of women and on slavery, were quite liberal for the day.



Mill combined economics with philosophy. He believed in a moral theory called utilitarianism—that actions that lead to people's happiness are right and that those that lead to suffering are wrong. Among economists, he's best-known for his 1848 work, Principles of Political Economy, which became a leading economic textbook for decades after its publication. Other significant books include On Liberty, A System of Logic, The Subjection of Women, and Utilitarianism.





Key Takeaways

John Stuart Mill (1806-1973) was an influential British philosopher and economist who also served as a Member of Parliament (MP) and worked for the East India Company.A liberal classical economist, Mill was an advocate of individual rights, progressive social policies, and utilitarianism (which promotes actions that do "the greatest good for the greatest number").Mill believed that economic theory and philosophy, along with social awareness, should play a role in politics nad shape public policy.Mill's best-known works include Principles of Political Economy, Utilitarianism, On Liberty, and The Subjection of Women.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Early Life and Education  

John Stuart Mill was born in 1806 in London, the eldest son of the British historian, economist, and philosopher James Mill. He grew up in a strict household under a firm father and was required to learn history, Greek, Latin, mathematics, and economic theory at a very young age.



Much of John Stuart Mill's beliefs, thoughts, and influential works can be attributed to his upbringing and the ideology taught to him by James Mill. His father became acquainted with the leading political theorist Jeremy Bentham in 1808, and together they started a political movement that embraced philosophical radicalism and utilitarianism, which advocates "the greatest amount of good for the greatest number of people." It was during this time that the young Mill was indoctrinated with the economic theory, political thinking, and social beliefs that would shape his later work.



It was actually this exact upbringing that gave him his foundation and also brought about a mental breakdown—and later, a mental breakthrough. Mill attributed prolonged periods of depression, sadness, and even suicidal thoughts to the overbearing nature of his father and the radical system in which he was raised. The mental lapse forced him to re-examine theories he had previously accepted as true. Through this self-reflection, he began to make changes to Bentham's utilitarian ideology to make it more positive, adopting the revised theory as his own system of belief.



Mill spent most of his working life with the East India Company: He joined it at age 16 and was employed there for 38 years. During 1865–68, he served as a Member of Parliament (MP), representing the City of Westminster.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  Mill's Ideology  

John Stuart Mill is considered one of the most influential British thought leaders on political discourse, including epistemology, economics, ethics, metaphysics, social and political philosophy, and other concentrations.



He used his numerous articles, essays, and books to compare the legal status of women at the time to the legal status of slaves, to promote radical empiricism as a function of mathematics, and to pioneer the harm principle—the idea that political power should only be wielded over a member of an organization when that power is used to prevent harm to that member.



While a passionate believer in freedom and individual rights, as an economist Mill was not a consistent advocate of a laissez-faire system: He did favor taxes and government oversight, such as workplace regulations and limits to workers' hours. His later writings suggest a shift away from classic economics' belief in the free marketplace and capitalism towards socialism, or at least a mixed economy.






Elaborating on the theories of early economists David Ricardo and Adam Smith, Mills helped develop such economic concepts as opportunity cost, economies of scale, and comparative advantage in trade.


  Published Works  

In order of publication, Mill's best-known works include:



A System of Logic (1843), which outlines the methods of science and how they can be applied to social mechanics.



Principles of Political Economy (1848), which combines the disciplines of philosophy and economics and advocates that population limits and slowed economic growth would be beneficial to the environment and increase public goods.



On Liberty (1859), which addresses the nature and limits of the power that can be legitimately exercised by society over the individual, introducing the harm principle and defending free speech.



Utilitarianism (1863), which expounds on Bentham's original philosophy, using it as the foundation of morals—rejecting the idea that it promotes narrow self-interest, and arguing it aims for the betterment of society as a whole.



The Subjection of Women (1869), which makes the case for women’s suffrage and gender equality.



Three Essays on Religion (1874), which critiques traditional, religious orthodoxy and advocates a more liberal "religion of humanity" (published posthumously).



Autobiography (1874), which was written the year he died and published posthumously.






The utilitarian creed, "which accepts as the foundation of morals utility, or the greatest happiness principle, holds that actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness, wrong as they tend to produce the reverse of happiness. By happiness is intended pleasure, and the absence of pain; by unhappiness, pain, and the privation of pleasure."—John Stuart Mill, Utilitarianism


   Personal Life  

The love of Mill's life was Harriet Hardy Taylor. After two decades of a close friendship (when she was wife to another man), they married in 1851. An intelligent, liberal thinker and writer in her own right, Taylor inspired much of Mill's work—he openly acknowledges her influence in The Subjection of Women—and she may well have edited or co-written some of his pieces. Certainly, she helped turn Mill’s attention to the progressive ideals which she was passionate about: socialism, women’s rights, individual liberty, and a “utopian” view of humanity’s improvability.




What Are John Stuart Mill's Most Important Works?
John Stuart Mill's most important works include Principles of Political Economy (1848), On Liberty (1859), Utilitarianism (1861), and The Subjection of Women (1869).




What Is John Stuart Mill's Utilitarianism Philosophy?
Expanding on philosopher Jeremy Bentham's original doctrine, John Stuart's Mill's utilitarianism has three basic tenets:Pleasure or happiness is the only thing that has true, intrinsic value.Actions are right insofar as they promote happiness; wrong insofar as they produce unhappiness.Everyone's happiness counts equally.Mill espoused these theories in his 1861 essay, Utilitarianism.




What Were John Stuart Mill's Economic Beliefs?
John Stuart Mill espoused his economic theories in Principles of Political Economy (a 19th-century term, equivalent to our contemporary "macroeconomics"); first published in 1848, it went through several editions as he developed and refined his ideas. For Mill, economics is closely tied to social philosophy and politics: Wealth is the natural end product of labor, but the distribution of wealth is determined by the decisions and the will of actual people (albeit an elite class of educated people). As a result, human laws and institutions can and should determine how wealth is distributed.Mill did believe in the superiority of socialism, in which economic production would be driven by worker-owned cooperatives. But he also believed in free enterprise, competition, and individual initiative. Governments had a responsibility to maintain these things, as well as to prevent monopolies, look after the poor, and provide an education for young people.


   The Bottom Line  

John Stuart Mill was a politician and philosopher, economist, and corporate executive, who remains of lasting interest as a liberal thinker—an advocate of the individual's rights and pursuit of happiness—and an ethical theorist. In essence, Mill believed that economic theory and philosophy were needed, along with social awareness, in politics in order to make better decisions for the good of the people. Several of his books, including Principles of Political Economy, Utilitarianism, and A System of Logic led him to become one of the most important—if somewhat controversial—public figures in 19th-century British politics and economics.
What Is The S.C. Johnson Graduate School of Management?  

The Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management, or Cornell Johnson, is a graduate business school based at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York.



Founded in 1946, the school received its current name following a $20 million gift from the family of philanthropist Samuel Curtis Johnson. Cornell Johnson’s MBA program has historically performed well on international B-School rankings. In 2023, U.S. News & World Report ranked it #15 worldwide.





Key Takeaways

Cornell Johnson is a graduate business school based at Cornell University, an Ivy League institution.It is known for its emphasis on immersive learning through internships, business cases, and consulting.Its MBA program is consistently ranked in the top 15 worldwide.


   Cornell Johnson Curriculum  

Cornell Johnson offers a variety of programs, including a two-year residential Master of Business Administration (MBA) program and a one-year Johnson Cornell Tech MBA. For students unable to commit to a full-time program, Cornell’s Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management offers three Executive MBA programs that provide an Ivy League education with the needs of working professionals.



The Cornell Johnson MBA program provides a highly immersive experience through internships, case studies, and visits to relevant companies. Additionally, students select an area of focus relatively early in the MBA curriculum. Areas of specialization include:



Investment banking
Strategic Operations,
Capital markets and asset management
Digital Technology






Cornell Johnson offers a 22-month Executive MBA program where students take courses on alternating weekends in New York City and participate in four immersive, interactive residencies at Cornell University’s main campus in Ithaca, NY.


   Tuition  

In line with Ivy League schools, the cost of attending Cornell Johnson is among the highest of any business school. Its estimated full-time tuition is $76,690 per year. The Executive MBA program total is approximately $209,828.


   Student Experience  

In 2022, over 96% of Cornell Johnson graduates have received job offers within 3 months of graduation. The average starting salary for the graduating class of 2022 was $154,853.



Graduates join the Johnson School’s alumni community and become part of Cornell’s Big Red Network, an international group of more than 150,000. Prominent alumni include Ken Durr, former CEO of Chevron, Daniel Hesse, former CEO of Sprint Corporation, and Anne Chow, CEO of AT&T Business.




What Is the Corporate Partnership of Cornell Johnson?
The school partners with 65 companies or corporations to provide students with real-world exposure and industry connections.




Can Graduates of Cornell Johnson Explore Careers in Consulting?
Nearly 30% of Johnson School graduates pursue careers in consulting with preparation from project-based consulting courses, and a Management Consulting Immersion.




Does Cornell Johnson Have Programs for Veterans?
Cornell Johnson has an Immersion Program that works with veterans as they transition into new careers.


   The Bottom Line  

The Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management has an extensive alumni network. The school has an MBA, Executive MBA, Master of Professional Studies, and other business degree options. Cornell Johnson provides students with an Ivy League education and professional connections.
What Is Joint?  

Joint is a legal term describing a transaction or agreement where two or more parties act in unison.





Key Takeaways

Joint refers to transactions involving two or more parties.Joint can also refer to liability such as when two people share a debt.Joint is used in many situations ranging from joint accounts to joint ventures.


   Understanding Joint  

In addition to pertaining to accounts or ownership in real property, joint can also refer to liability. Joint liability exists in situations where two or more people share the burden of a debt. For example, if a husband and wife have joint liability for a debt, each is responsible for the entire amount of the debt. Several liability, on the other hand, would limit liability to each person's respective obligations.


   Examples of Joint  

Joint, as a term, can be used in a variety of situations, including: 



joint accounts, where two or more parties share a single account, such as a bank or brokerage account. In this case, the law considers both parties to be equal owners, no matter who started the account or who contributes more money. Co-owners can spend or transfer funds to other accounts without the consent of the other account holder. Most joint accounts have rights of survivorship, which means that if one account holder dies, the other will automatically retain rights to the account funds.
joint tenancies, where two or more parties share equal shares of ownership in property with the same deed at the same time. This type of holding title is most common between husbands and wives and among family members since there are rights of survivorship, similar to joint accounts. This differs from a tenancy in common, whereby tenants may have different shares of ownership, which may be obtained at different times.
joint annuities, such as joint and survivor annuities, insurance products that continue regular payments as long as one of the annuitants is alive. A joint and survivor annuity must have two or more annuitants. This is usually a wise choice for married couples who want to guarantee that, in the case of death, the surviving spouse receives regular income for life, though monthly payments are typically reduced by one-third or one-half for the surviving annuitant. 
joint ventures, where two unaffiliated companies contribute financial and/or physical assets, as well as personnel, to a new company. Although joint ventures are generally thought of as partnerships, they can take on any legal structure. Corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs) and other business entities can all be involved in joint ventures, the agreements of which take into account: the number of parties involved, the scope in which the joint venture will operate, the terms of each party’s role and contribution, the ownership split, and how the joint ventures will be administered, managed and staffed.
What Is a Joint Account?  

A joint account is a bank or brokerage account shared between two or more individuals. Joint accounts are most likely to be used by relatives, couples, or business partners who have a level of familiarity and trust with each other.



A joint account functions like a standard account, such as a checking or savings account, and allows anyone named on the account to access its funds. All owners can withdraw cash, write checks and make online payments.





Key Takeaways:

A joint account is a bank or brokerage account shared by two or more individuals.Joint account holders have equal access to funds but also share equal responsibility for any fees or charges incurred.Transactions conducted through a joint account may require the signature of all parties or just one.


   How Joint Accounts Work  

Joint accounts work just like regular accounts, except they can have two or more authorized users. Joint accounts can be established permanently, such as an account for a couple into which their salaries are deposited. The account may also be temporary, such as an account between two parties who are contributing funds in the short term.



Bank accounts held jointly between two parties may be titled with an "and" or an "or" between the account holders' names. If the account is listed as an "and" account, then both/all parties must sign to access the funds. If it is an "or" account, only one party must sign. 



Accounts jointly held include deposit accounts at banks including checking and savings accounts, credit cards, and other credit products such as loans, lines of credit (LOC), and mortgages. The joint status authorizes all those listed on the account to full use, but also the responsibility for any payments, fees, or charges incurred.



Opening a joint account is as simple as opening up a single account. Both parties should be present at the bank when the account is open—whether that's a deposit account or another product like a mortgage or loan. For credit cards, adding a secondary or authorized user is akin to opening a joint account. In most cases, this requires the signature of the second party.


   Uses and Benefits of Joint Accounts  

Joint accounts can be helpful in their holders and provide several benefits. Many funds require minimum balances, particularly if the holder wants to access the benefits of a specific account type. By pooling their money, two people can bypass this requirement and reap the benefits of the account.



Opening a joint account may also be helpful to newer couples who are combining their finances. Couples may find it easier to have a single account into which they can deposit their paychecks and make payments for their rent or mortgage, bills, or other joint debts.



A senior may find it helpful to add one of their children or another authorized user to their accounts to pay bills and do routine banking on their behalf if and when they are not able to do so on their own.


   Pitfalls of Joint Accounts  

Joint accounts can cause problems, however, because they generally provide all parties unlimited access to the funds. Thus, if one spouse has difficulty controlling their spending habits, this may affect the other spouse, who may be more frugal. The frugal spouse cannot challenge the withdrawals or transactions of the other spouse with the bank because they are listed as a joint account holder.



Another thing to remember with joint accounts is that all parties with access are responsible for any fees. If your husband runs up your joint credit card, you are equally responsible for paying it back. Similarly, if your joint checking account goes into overdraft, you are liable for a negative balance.



The government may seize any funds in a joint account to satisfy an outstanding order. That includes back taxes that may be owed, child support, or other court-ordered garnishments.



It is best for both parties to speak to discuss the responsibilities associated with opening a joint account before doing so. This can avoid any unnecessary problems and conflicts that may arise.






All parties should discuss the pros and cons of opening a joint account to avoid potential future conflicts.


   Joint Account Rights  

Several titling mechanics designate how the funds are divided if one of the parties on the account passes away. These options are required on brokerage accounts.



Joint Tenants with Rights of Survivorship (JTWROS): If one of the parties passes away, the assets in the account pass by the rule of law—outside of probate—to the surviving parties.



Tenants in Common (TIC): This allows each joint holder of the account to designate their beneficiary for their portion of the assets in the event they pass away. Instead of transferring by the rule of law to the second account holder, the assets are passed to the beneficiary. In addition, the assets may not be automatically split 50/50. The TIC designation allows the tenants to divide property ownership in any way they choose.



Joint Tenants option: This option mandates a 50/50 split of the assets in the joint account.
Joint and several liability is a legal term for a responsibility shared by two or more parties to a lawsuit. A wronged party may sue any or all of them, as well as collect the total damages awarded by a court from any or all of them.



In such cases, responsibility for the total amount awarded would be shared by all. Failure by any of the parties to pay would increase the obligation of the others.





Key Takeaways

In law, joint and several liability makes all parties in a suit responsible for damages up to the entire amount awarded.That is, if one party is unable to pay, the others named must pay more than their share.In a contract, “jointly and severally liable” means the same thing as “joint and several liability.”More commonly, comparative fault laws limit an individual’s payment to a proportion based on the extent of their fault.


   How Does Joint and Several Liability Work?  

Joint and several liability favors the plaintiff suing for damages because it empowers them to pursue full payment, if necessary, from the party with the deepest pockets if the others named cannot pay.



If all of the parties involved are insolvent and uninsured, then the plaintiff collects nothing.



Joint and several liability differs in law from comparative fault, in which multiple parties are assigned responsibility for a portion of the damages in relation to the degree of fault that they bear for the harm. In such cases, a plaintiff may be left in the position of seeking damages from the party that is least able to pay.



Comparative fault is sometimes called “pure several liability.” It is more common in the United States than joint and several liability.



Most U.S. states have limited the use of joint and several liability or have developed a hybrid approach. For example, a state might allow joint and several liability to apply only to parties who are found responsible for more than 50% of the damage done.



The hybrid approach was adopted as a means of reforming a system that appeared to encourage some plaintiffs to add a single party with deep pockets, such as a large corporation, to a suit to get an outsized award.


   Criticism of Joint and Several Liability  

As noted, joint and several liability tends to benefit the plaintiff, as it increases the chances that all of the damages awarded can be collected.






Most states in the U.S. limit the use of joint and several responsibility or employ a hybrid approach.



On the other hand, it may be considered unfair to a party who bears only a minor responsibility for an adverse event to bear an outsized financial loss because of it.


   Example of a Joint and Several Liability Suit  

A joint and several liability case could be launched on behalf of workers who became ill after working at multiple job sites where they were exposed to harmful materials. For example, they might be construction workers who suffer physical ailments that can be attributed to contact with a toxic substance that was present in materials used in all of their workplaces.



The workers might argue that inadequate precautions were taken by several employers who were responsible for worker safety at various sites where they worked.




What does it mean to be jointly and severally liable?
Joint and several liability makes all parties in a lawsuit responsible for damages up to the entire amount awarded. That is, if one party is unable to pay, then the others named must pay more than their share.




What is several but not joint liability?
Several liability (or proportionate liability) is when all parties are liable for just their own respective obligations. In effect, it is the opposite of joint liability.




What is the purpose of joint and several liability?
Joint and several liability is a way to reduce the risk of financial loss to one party to a contract. It allows a plaintiff suing for damages to pursue full payment, if necessary, from the party with the deepest pockets if the others named cannot pay.


   The Bottom Line  

In law, joint and several liability makes all parties in a lawsuit responsible for damages up to the entire amount awarded. That is, if one party is unable to pay, then the others named must pay more than their share until their joint financial obligation has been met.
What Is a Joint and Survivor Annuity?  

A joint and survivor annuity is an insurance product designed primarily for retired couples who want a guaranteed monthly income that will continue for as long as either spouse lives.



Annuities, in general, are investment choices that can be used to provide a regular stream of income during retirement. An alternative to the joint and survivor annuity is the single life annuity, which stops payment at the death of the annuitant.



A couple investing in a joint and survivor annuity has many options to consider. A higher initial benefit will come with a reduction in the monthly payout for the survivor. A lower benefit might be continued at the same level for the survivor.





Key Takeaways

A joint and survivor annuity is an insurance product designed for couples that continues to make regular payments as long as one spouse lives.A joint and survivor annuity has the advantage of providing income if one or both people live longer than expected.This is not a good choice for a younger couple. Other investments have greater upside potential and lower fees.


   Understanding Joint and Survivor Annuities  

Anyone considering a joint and survivor annuity must first determine precisely how much the payments will be. That depends on many factors, including how much money they are investing, the life expectancies of both individuals, and whether the annuity is fixed or variable depending on investment returns.



There are other decisions that affect the numbers. A typical joint and survivor annuity might reduce the monthly payment to the survivor by 30% to 50%. The investors may, however, choose a somewhat lower payment that will continue unchanged for the lifetime of the survivor.



The prospective investor must also take a careful look at the fees and commission involved. The cost of annuity fees averages 2.3% of the annuity's value and can go higher, particularly in complex products.


  When an Employer Sponsors the Annuity  

When an annuity is sponsored by an employer, the employer decides which payment options it will provide. The options may include single life or joint and survivor options.



However, employer-sponsored qualified plans must make the joint and survivor annuity the automatic choice for couples married at the time of retirement. An individual may receive a single-life annuity only with written, notarized approval from the primary annuitant’s current or (depending on the divorce settlement) former spouse.



There may also be provisions for making payments to a third party when both annuitants die before the monthly payments have exceeded the principal. In these cases, the money goes to the annuitants’ estate or to a named beneficiary.



If the annuity has an installment refund provision, the insurance company must make monthly payments to the estate or beneficiary until the original value of the annuity is reached.



If an annuity has a cash refund provision, the balance of the principal goes to the annuitants’ estate or a named beneficiary in a lump sum.


   Advantages of a Joint and Survivor Annuity  

A joint and survivor annuity has the advantage of protecting annuitants from outliving their retirement savings.



A person who retires at 65 may anticipate living to age 80 and plan accordingly. Living to 90 or 100 is perfectly feasible these days, but it requires a backup financial plan.



Its greatest benefit may be its protection for surviving spouses. And that aspect may be changing with the times.



Historically, annuities were most often offered through employers. During much of the 20th century, most wage earners were men, who generally have lower life expectancies than women. The joint annuity took care of their widows, who might live years or even decades longer than their spouses.






The life expectancies of both spouses can play a significant part in deciding between a joint and survivor annuity and a single-life annuity.


   Disadvantages of a Joint and Survivor Annuity  

Like all annuities, joint and survivor annuities will not provide a good return to a younger couple. The benefit will be low and the fees will be high compared to other investment options such as exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



Immediate annuities make more sense after age 65 when a couple is retired or looking forward to retiring soon.



The stakes are changing, too, with marital trends. For example, same-sex couples, if they are about the same age, will typically have similar life expectancies, so they will not get as much benefit from a joint and survivor annuity as a couple did in the 20th century.
What Is a Joint Bond?  

A joint bond is sold with a guarantee of the payment of principal and interest by at least two parties. In the case of default by the issuer, the bondholders have the right to claim repayment by any and all of the issuing institutions, corporations, or individuals. This shared responsibility reduces the risk to the investor but also generally means a lower rate of return on the investment.





Key Takeaways

A joint bond, or joint-and-several bond, is a type of bond that is guaranteed by at least two parties.Much like the co-signer of a loan, the second party guarantees payment if the issuer defaults.Such bonds are often used when a subsidiary of a parent company needs backing to get a loan.Joint bonds are comparatively safe investments, and therefore offer a more modest return to the investor.Many economists have argued that the European Union should consider issuing joint bonds to strengthen the euro currency.


   Understanding Joint Bonds  

A joint bond is most often issued when a corporate parent company is required to guarantee the obligations of a subsidiary business. Such instances are similar to a parent's decision to co-sign a car loan for a child.



Parent companies are typically larger firms that own a majority stake in one or more smaller subsidiaries in the same industry or complementary industries.



A subsidiary that wants to raise money for a capital project may not be able to do it alone or may be able to issue it only at a high rate of interest. Debt investors may be wary of a bond issued by a subsidiary, especially if it does not have as high a credit rating as the parent company.



The parent company can step in to act as an additional guarantor on the debt.






The joint bond is also known as a joint-and-several bond.


   Federal Home Loan Joint Bonds  

Another example of a joint bond issuer is the Federal Home Loan Bank System (FHLB). The bank was founded by Congress in 1932 in order to help finance the community banking system.



The FHLB Office of Finance issues joint bond security to fund the 11 Federal Home Loan Banks that make up its regional network. This financing is then passed on to local financial institutions to support lending to home buyers, farmers, and small business owners.



The Federal Home Loan Bank’s organizational structure of joint-and-several liability makes it unique among housing-related government-sponsored enterprises and helps it serve as a pillar of the nation’s small business and home mortgage financing systems.


   Lessons From Greece  

Many economists have argued that the European Union should consider issuing joint bonds to strengthen the euro currency. They point to the aftermath of the 2008-2009 economic crisis to illustrate the point.



In 2014, Greece was mired in recession and could not take independent currency stimulus action to alleviate it because it has adopted the euro currency. Advocates of joint bonds argued that Greece needed the support and credit of its fellow eurozone members so that it could pay its bills until growth resumed.



Proposals for a European joint bond, or a European common bond, are floated intermittently. The latest iteration, called a European Safe Bond, was proposed in 2018 by a committee chaired by Irish central bank governor Philip Lane. 



European banks and many governments within the eurozone could be supportive of such proposals since they would meet the demand for safe government debt. Previous proposals, however, have been blocked by Germany. German representatives are wary that a European joint bond would encourage fiscal irresponsibility in some of the poorer nations of the eurozone.
What Is Joint Credit?  

The term joint credit refers to any type of credit facility that is issued to two or more people based on their combined incomes, assets, and credit histories. The parties involved share everything about the debt including the credit limit and the responsibility to repay it back to the lender. Joint credit can be used when one individual has little to no credit or a bad credit report, and when two or more people need access to a large credit limit that they wouldn't qualify for individually.


   Understanding Joint Credit  

Joint credit is any type of debt that is owned—and owed—by two or more people. Two or more individuals may consider applying for joint credit if they're getting married or co-signing a mortgage. It is imperative to review all parties applying for joining credit. Combined financial planning will usually affect all parties’ credit scores.



Consumers can take out joint credit on any number of accounts including mortgages, loans, credit cards, and lines of credit (LOCs). In order to obtain joint credit, each party must submit their personal information on a credit application. These details include their names, addresses, dates of birth, income, Social Security numbers (SSNs), and any other pertinent information. Each individual must also sign the application. By signing the application, each party gives the creditor their authorization to conduct a credit check.



Having joint credit means each individual has equal access to the account. This means anyone can make changes to the account, whether that means lowering or increasing credit limits, changing mailing addresses, or adding additional users to the account. But it also means that each party shares the responsibility to pay back the debt. This can prove to be a problem if one person doesn't live up to their responsibility or runs up a credit card bill without paying, so it's always a good idea for each party to discuss the possibility of joint credit and set up boundaries before they actually apply for an account.



Despite the pitfalls are several reasons why joint credit is a good idea. By combining their resources, a couple may have access to a greater amount of credit than if they were to apply as individuals. This would allow them to make bigger purchases and fund them together. Joint credit also comes in handy when one person has no credit history or a low credit score. The joint account allows them access to a credit facility they wouldn't normally be able to obtain.





Key Takeaways

Joint credit is a credit facility issued to two or more people based on their combined incomes, assets, and credit histories. People with joint debt are equally responsible for the account including the credit limit and repayment. Joint credit gives people access to greater credit limits and also helps those who wouldn't qualify on their own. 


   Special Considerations  

Joint credit can become an issue and a huge concern in divorce proceedings. While both may have contributed to the debts equally, their agreements may see one partner taking responsibility for certain debts, while the other ends up paying for the remaining debts. It is also possible that former partners may still affect one another's credit, even if the two are divorced.



Closing a joint credit account can also be difficult, especially when there's a balance outstanding. Even if a lender allows a credit card to be closed, the balance usually must still be paid under the original terms. One potential solution includes transferring a portion or all of the balance to a separate credit card.


   Types of Joint Credit  
  Co-Borrowing  

Co-borrowers are any other borrowers added to an account. Their names are also listed on the credit application and supporting documentation. As such, their personal information—credit history and income—is used as part of the application process and help the lender determine whether the parties qualify. When there are co-borrowers on an account, they all assume responsibility for the debt.


  Co-Signing  

As with a co-borrower, an additional party signs on to be responsible for 100% of the bill. But there's one key difference—the co-signer doesn't have access to the account. The co-signer may or may not have access to account information either. If the original signer makes a late payment or defaults on the loan or account, this negative history could be added to the co-signers existing credit history.


   Joint Credit vs. Authorized Users  

In contrast with a co-signer, an authorized user can use existing available credit on an account but has no financial liability to repay the debt. While the initial party has already filled out the application, obtained the credit, and is liable for repayment, an authorized user simply receives charging privileges.






While an authorized user is able to use a credit card, the original account holder is liable for repayment.



Adding authorized users to an existing credit card can help build credit, assuming timely payments are made. On the other hand, an authorized user can also ruin the original party’s credit score by racking up debt. Authorized users can get a boost in their own credit score if the original party regularly uses and makes timely payments on the account.
What Is Joint Endorsement?  

A joint endorsement can be required on a check presented for deposit or cashing that has been made out to two or more individuals. The purpose of the joint endorsement is to prevent one individual from depositing or cashing a check without the knowledge or permission of the other person to whom the check is made out.





Key Takeaways

A joint endorsement is required for checks in which the beneficiaries are two or more parties.Based on legal convention, if the two payee names on a check are separated by the word "and" or any symbol or abbreviation of the word "and," then the bank can require joint endorsement.In instances where the two payee names are separated by the word "or," then a signature from either one of the parties will do.Tax refund checks generally require joint endorsements.


   Understanding Joint Endorsement  

Rules on joint endorsements vary by state, bank, and even the type of check presented. For example, when checks are made out to a married couple and deposited into their joint account, many banks will not require both spouses to endorse the check; after all, the money is going into an account to which they share access. On the other hand, most banks will require checks issued by the U.S. government, such as tax refund checks, to be jointly endorsed, even for deposit into a joint account.


   The Details Make a Difference  

The need for a joint endorsement can be determined by the way the check is written. According to legal convention, if the two payee names on the check are separated by the word "and" or any symbol or abbreviation of the word "and," then the bank can require joint endorsement. Thus a check made out to "Jane Doe and John Doe," "Jane Doe & John Doe," or "Jane Doe + John Doe" would call for a joint endorsement. On the other hand, if the payee names on the check are separated by a simple comma, such as "Jane Doe, John Doe," then either party could endorse the check. Note that all banks may not follow these conventions and could possibly demand a joint endorsement in any case.



In some instances, both parties for a joint endorsement cannot be present together at the same time to endorse the check. For example, a recently-divorced couple in which one of the partners has obtained a restraining order against the other might present a problem for the bank because it is difficult to verify or ask for signatures for a check. In such cases, a bank works with both parties independently or asks for a reissue of the joint check, made out separately to each individual.


   Joint Endorsements in Landlord-Tenant Transactions  

The issue of joint endorsements often comes up in landlord-tenant relations because many living situations involve roommates who share bills and responsibilities but who are not married or otherwise related. When a landlord returns a security deposit to tenants, the check may be written out to both, or all, the tenants listed on the lease, using some version of "and" between the names. Often the letters JT are appended to the names, meaning "joint tenants." A problem arises when two unrelated roommates have separate bank accounts, since the landlord's check can only be deposited into one account. In this case the refund check must still be jointly endorsed by both tenants before it can be deposited in one of the tenants' bank accounts. The depositor would then presumably write a separate check back to the other tenant.
What Is Joint Liability?  

Joint liability denotes the obligation of two or more partners to pay back a debt or be responsible for satisfying a liability. A joint liability allows parties to share the risks associated with taking on debt and to protect themselves in the event of lawsuits. An individual subject to joint liability may be referred to as "jointly liable."





Key Takeaways

Joint liability means that more than one party is responsible legally for paying back a debt or otherwise covering a liability.Joint liability results from two or more parties applying together for credit, often in a general partnership.If any of the parties in the general partnership enter into a contract, then all of the parties are responsible.When there's a joint liability agreement, a creditor can sue any partner; most typically, they sue the one who is perceived as being the most financially solvent.


   Understanding Joint Liability  

Joint liability for a debt results from two or more parties applying jointly for credit as co-borrowers, which is implied in a general partnership. Under the regulations of a general partnership, any partner entering into a contract with or without the knowledge of other partners automatically binds all partners to that contract. If a court finds that a partnership is at fault in a lawsuit, then every partner is responsible for paying any monetary legal liability or compensation. As such, any partner entering a joint liability agreement should be aware that they too are liable for the actions of each and every other partner as it pertains to the partnership.


   Joint Liability Example  

An example of joint liability would be when spouses both sign for a loan. If one spouse should die, the other remains liable for the balance of the loan as a co-signer. However, this is contingent upon default by the borrower.



With joint liability, creditors may sue once for any debt. In the case of partnerships, creditors tend to choose the one with the deepest pockets or the most likely to pay, as they cannot pursue additional amounts from other partners.






Joint liability is essentially the opposite of several liability, in which all parties are responsible for their individual obligations only.


   Joint Liability vs. Several Liable  

Several liability (or proportionate liability) is when all parties are liable for just their own respective obligations. In effect, it is the opposite of joint liability. An example would be if several business partners took out a loan for their business under the arrangement that each partner was responsible for their own share (severally liable). In such a case, if one partner did not meet their obligation under the loan, then the lender would only be able to sue the one partner for failure to meet their obligation. Several liability is often used in syndicated loan agreements.


   Joint Liability vs. Jointly and Severally Liable  

When partners have joint and several liability for a debt, a creditor can sue any of the partners for repayment. It is a variation of joint liability. If one partner pays the debt, then that partner may pursue other partners to collect their share of the debt obligation. In short, it is the responsibility of defendants to sort out and reconcile their separate shares of liability and payments.
What Is a Joint-Life Payout?  

The term joint-life payout refers to a payment structure for pensions and retirement plans in which a surviving spouse will continue to receive income after the account holder dies. That contrasts with a single-life payout, for which payments end with the death of the account holder. These two payout options are also known as joint-and-survivor and single-life annuities.





Key Takeaways

A joint-life payout is a payment structure for pensions and other retirement plans that provides income to a second person, typically a spouse, after the account holder dies.The alternative payout structure is a single-life payout.Joint-life payouts are often the legally required option unless the spouse waives their right to the pension in writing.


   How Joint-Life Payouts Work  

With a joint-life payout, a pension or other retirement plan will first pay benefits to the account holder and then switch to their spouse if the spouse survives them. Because the pension is likely to have to pay benefits for a longer period of time, the benefits will be lower than the account holder would have received had they elected for a single-life payout.



However, the account holder has the assurance that their spouse will still have money coming in after they die. In some instances, the designated survivor can be someone other than a spouse.



In many cases, the joint-life option is the legally required default for married account holders, and they can elect the single-life option only if their spouse agrees to that in writing. A spouse might agree, for example, if they have sufficient retirement income of their own.



Account holders and their spouses will often have several joint-life options to choose from. For example, they may be able to elect a payout to the survivor that's the same amount as the account holder had been receiving or, more commonly, a payout that represents 50% or 75% of that amount. The option they choose will also affect the account holder's payout—the larger the spouse's future payout, the lower the account holder's payout will be.






Though joint-life payouts refer to pension plans, there is also a type of life insurance policy that goes by the name of joint life.


   What Is Joint Life Insurance?  

Joint-life payouts on retirement plans shouldn't be confused with joint life insurance. A relatively uncommon type of insurance policy, joint life insurance covers two people, typically a married couple, rather than one.



These policies can be structured in several ways. A first-to-die policy pays off when either person dies. That might be useful in the case of a young family, in which one person works outside the home and the other is a stay-at-home parent. If one or the other of them dies, the family could face financial hardship, either because it no longer has money coming in from the working spouse or because the survivor must now pay someone to do the work previously done by the stay-at-home partner. However, two separate, individual policies could serve the same purpose as a joint policy.



The other type of joint life insurance is second-to-die, which pays a death benefit to the policy's beneficiaries when both policyholders are dead.



Though joint life policies may be less expensive than two individual policies, they also come with additional risks, including what happens if the couple decides to divorce.
What Is a Joint Life With Last Survivor Annuity?  

A joint life with last survivor annuity is an insurance product that provides an income for life to both partners in a marriage.



It also can allow for payments to a designated third party or beneficiary even after the death of one of the spouses or partners. Aside from providing an income that cannot be outlived—essentially longevity insurance—it also may be used as a way to leave a financial legacy to a beneficiary or a charitable cause.



A joint life with last survivor annuity may also be referred to as a joint and survivor annuity. An annuity is a financial product that provides a set income stream, typically used by retirees.





Key Takeaways

A joint life with last survivor annuity is an insurance product for a couple that provides regular payments as long as one spouse is still living.The amount of the payment is determined in the individual contract and is based on the needs of the couple.After the first partner dies, the payment is typically adjusted lower for the surviving partner.This type of annuity can also allow for payments to go to a third party or beneficiary even after both of the original partners have passed away.


   Understanding Joint Life With Last Survivor Annuities  

A joint life with last survivor annuity is, by definition, not term certain. Payments continue until both partners in a marriage die. Typically, after one partner dies, the survivor receives a smaller payment. The exact amounts to be paid are specified in the contract.



It is also possible for an annuitant to designate a beneficiary, who may or may not be the same person as the designated third-party. That third-party would receive a payment that is triggered by the death of one of the spouses.



For example, a couple might have a joint life with last survivor annuity that pays a $2,000 monthly benefit. After one spouse dies, half of that $2,000 may be reallocated to a third-party beneficiary, such as a child, for the life of the remaining spouse.



As such, a joint life with last survivor annuity may be used as a component of estate planning.






A joint life with last survivor annuity is sometimes called a joint and survivor annuity.


   Suitability Considerations  

A joint life with last survivor annuity is for married couples who want a surviving party to continue receiving benefits until the death of both individuals. Annuity buyers, in this case, will need to decide how much the surviving spouse will need financially.



Common options provide for payouts at 100% of the original benefit, 75%, 66.66%, or 50%. Since a surviving spouse's living costs tend to be higher than half the living costs of two people, many financial advisors and planners choose an income payment above 50%.



It should be noted that lower payments generally mean a higher death benefit. Of course, if there are other sources of income in retirement, a 50% payout may be adequate.
What Is Joint Owned Property?  

Joint owned property is any property held in the name of two or more parties. These two parties could business partners or another combination of people who have a reason to own property together. The matrimonial status of joint ownership of assets is when the two parties are husband and wife.



Joint owned property may be held in one of several legal forms, including joint tenancy, tenancy by the entirety, community property, or in a trust.





Key Takeaways

Joint owned property is any property held in the name of two or more parties, like husband and wife, or business partners, friends, or family members. The risks of joint owned property are the potential for financial issues with partial ownership of a property, like one party wanting to sell their share. A joint owned property can be manifest in legal forms, such as joint tenancy, meaning two or more property holders each have equal rights and obligations to the property until their death. 


   How Joint Owned Property Works  

As noted above, a joint owned property may be held in legal forms, such as joint tenancy. This is when two or more people have equal rights and obligations to the property they rent or own together until one partner passes away.



At this time, the owner's interest passes to the survivors without probate. Tenancy by the entirety, another joint-owned property option, is when the parties are husband and wife. In this case, each spouse has an equal and undivided interest in the property. If one spouse dies, the full title of the property automatically passes to the surviving spouse.



Two additional forms of jointly owned property, community property, and trust, also have distinct features. A spouse can acquire community property (marital property) during a marriage. This property, such as a rental unit, legally belongs to both partners.






As of March 2021, U.S. states with community property laws included Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. Also, Guam and Puerto Rico have community-property legislation, and Alaska's law is optional.



For tax purposes, each spouse may claim half of the total income earned from community property. Finally, in a living trust, spouses may create a joint option in which both individuals are grantors and trustees. They may place individually or joint-owned assets in these trusts. Either person may revoke the trust during their lifetime.



Choosing the best form of ownership for joint property can simplify things if one of the owners passes away. Joint tenancy is commonly used to avoid probate, a lengthy, costly, and public process of distributing the deceased's assets in court.


   Risks of Joint Owned Property  

Joint or jointly-owned property does not come without its risks. Although later in life, individuals often desire to add others names' to the title of their property as a means of estate planning without attorney fees, this can bring added risks of embezzlement.



For example, if an elderly individual is in cognitive decline, they might succumb to adding a friend or relation to a joint bank account. The individual will then have full withdrawal rights. In addition, once an individual adds another’s name to the title of a piece of property, this act is typically final and cannot be undone. However, there are certain exceptions that can be pursued through the courts, such as in the case of fraud or financial exploitation of those deemed to be legally incompetent.
What Is Joint Probability?  

The term joint probability refers to a statistical measure that calculates the likelihood of two events occurring together and at the same point in time. Put simply, a joint probability is the probability of event Y occurring at the same time that event X occurs. In order for joint probability to work, both events must be independent of one another, which means they aren't conditional or don't rely on each other. Joint probabilities can be visualized using Venn diagrams.





Key Takeaways

A joint probability is a statistical measure used to calculate the likelihood of two events taking place at the same time.Both events must be independent of each other.Joint probability is also called the intersection of two or more events.It is different from conditional probability, which refers to the probability that one event will happen when another event takes place.You can visualize joint probabilities using Venn diagrams.


   Formula and Calculation of Joint Probability  

Notation for joint probability can take a few different forms. The following formula represents the probability of events intersection:



﻿















P


 



(


X


⋂


Y


)

















where:
















X


,


Y


=


Two different events that intersect
















P


(


X


 and 


Y


)


,


P


(


X


Y


)


=


The joint probability of X and Y








\begin{aligned} & P\ \left ( X\bigcap Y \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &X, Y = \text{Two different events that intersect}\\ &P(X \text{ and } Y), P(XY) = \text{The joint probability of X and Y}\\ \end{aligned}


​P (X⋂Y)where:X,Y=Two different events that intersectP(X and Y),P(XY)=The joint probability of X and Y​﻿






Although joint probability can help you determine the likelihood of two different events happening at the same time, it does not indicate how the two events may influence each other.


   What Does Joint Probability Tell You?  

Probability is a field closely related to statistics that deals with the likelihood of an event or phenomenon occurring. It is quantified as a number between 0 and 1, where 0 indicates an impossible chance of occurrence and 1 denotes the certain outcome of an event.
For example, the probability of drawing a red card from a deck of cards is 1/2 = 0.5. This means there is an equal chance of drawing a red and black card since there are 26 of each in a deck. As such, there is a 50-50 probability of drawing a red card versus a black card.
Joint probability measures two events that happen at the same time. It can only be applied to situations where more than one observation can occur at the same time. So the joint probability of picking a card that is both red and 6 from a deck is P(6 ∩ red) = 2/52 = 1/26 since a deck of cards has two red sixes—the six of hearts and the six of diamonds. Because the events red and 6 are independent, you can also use the following formula to calculate the joint probability:





P


(


6


∩


r


e


d


)


=


P


(


6


)


×


P


(


r


e


d


)


=


4


/


52


×


26


/


52


=


1


/


26



P(6 \cap red) = P(6) \times P(red) = 4/52 \times 26/52 = 1/26


P(6∩red)=P(6)×P(red)=4/52×26/52=1/26
The symbol “∩” in a joint probability is referred to as an intersection. The probability of event X and event Y happening is the same thing as the point where X and Y intersect. Therefore, the joint probability is also called the intersection of two or more events. A Venn diagram is perhaps the best visual tool to explain an intersection:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



From the Venn above, the point where both circles overlap is the intersection, which has two observations: the six of hearts and the six of diamonds.


   Joint Probability vs. Conditional Probability  

Joint probability should not be confused with conditional probability, which is the probability that one event will happen given that another action or event happens. The conditional probability formula is as follows:





P


(


X


,


g


i


v


e


n


 


Y


)


 or 


P


(


X


∣


Y


)



P(X, given~Y) \text{ or } P(X | Y)


P(X,given Y) or P(X∣Y)
This is to say that the chance of one event happening is conditional on another event happening. For example, from a deck of cards, the probability that you get a six, given that you drew a red card is P(6│red) = 2/26 = 1/13, since there are two sixes out of 26 red cards.
Joint probability only factors in the likelihood of both events occurring. Conditional probability can be used to calculate joint probability, as seen in this formula:





P


(


X


∩


Y


)


=


P


(


X


∣


Y


)


×


P


(


Y


)



P(X \cap Y) = P(X|Y) \times P(Y)


P(X∩Y)=P(X∣Y)×P(Y)
The probability that A and B occurs is the probability of X occurring, given that Y occurs multiplied by the probability that Y occurs. Given this formula, the probability of drawing a 6 and a red at the same time will be as follows:















P


(


6


∩


r


e


d


)


=


P


(


6


∣


r


e


d


)


×


P


(


r


e


d


)


=
















1


/


13


×


26


/


52


=


1


/


13


×


1


/


2


=


1


/


26







\begin{aligned} &P(6 \cap red) = P(6|red) \times P(red) = \\ &1/13 \times 26/52 = 1/13 \times 1/2 = 1/26\\ \end{aligned}


​P(6∩red)=P(6∣red)×P(red)=1/13×26/52=1/13×1/2=1/26​
Statisticians and analysts use joint probability as a tool when two or more observable events can occur simultaneously. For instance, joint probability can be used to estimate the likelihood of a drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) accompanied by a drop in Microsoft’s share price, or the chance that the value of oil rises at the same time the U.S. dollar weakens.






Joint probability depends on the two events acting independently from one another. To determine whether they are truly independent, it's important to establish whether one's outcome affects the other. If they do, they are dependent, which means they lead to conditional probability. If they don't, you end up with joint probability.


   Example of Joint Probability  

Let's highlight another example to show how joint probability works. This example uses dice and we want to find out what the probability is that you'll roll a four on each die when you roll them. Remember, there are six sides to each one.



In order to determine the joint probability, we first need to determine the probability of each roll:



The chance of rolling a three on the first die is 1/6The chance of rolling a three on the second die is 1/6



Now we can use the joint probability formula noted above to figure out what the joint probability is for this event by multiplying each individual event together.



1/6 x 1/6 = 1/36



This means that there is a 1/36 chance of rolling two fours using a pair of dice.




What Does Joint Probability Tell You?
Joint probability is a statistical measure that tells you the likelihood of two events taking place at the same time. You can use it to determine




What Are the Conditions for Joint Proability?
Certain conditions must be met for joint probability to occur. The first condition is that the two events in question must occur at the same time. Another condition is that both events must occur independently of one another. As such, the outcomes cannot impact each other.




Can Joint Probability Be Greater Than 1?
No, joint probability can never be greater than 1. Joint probability falls between 0 and 1, where 0 denotes that the likelihood of two events occurring simultaneously is impossible while 1 indicates that their outcome is certain.


   The Bottom Line  

Probability refers to the likelihood that an event will take place. But when there are two variables involved, you may end up with joint probability. This is a statistical measure that can tell you whether two independent events are likely to occur at the same time. It is an important metric for statisticians who use it to determine relationships between two sets of variables, such as women and sports. But one thing it doesn't indicate, though, is how the two influence each other.
What Is a Joint Return?  

A joint return is a tax return filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on the new, simplified Form 1040 (as of 2018) by two married taxpayers whose filing status is married filing jointly (MFJ) or by a widowed taxpayer whose filing status is Qualifying Widow or Widower (QW). A joint return allows these taxpayers to combine their tax liability and report their income, deductions, and credits on the same joint return.





Key Takeaways

A joint tax return is for married couples and offers some tax advantages over being married and filing separately.In order to qualify for joint filing status, you have to be married in the year you are filing jointly.Filers who have recently lost a spouse are also eligible to get the tax advantage of filing jointly by filing as a qualified widow or widower.


   How a Joint Return Works  

A joint return permits eligible taxpayers to figure out their taxes using favorable joint return tax brackets, tax rates, and tax benefits. As a result, married couples who file a joint return generally pay a lower overall tax than married couples who file two separate returns.












Federal Income Tax Bracket for 2019 (filed in April 2020)




 
Single
Married Filing Jointly
Married Filing Seperately
Head of Household


10%
$0 – $9,875
$0 – 19,750
$0 – $9,700
$0 – $13,850


12%
$9,876 – $40,125
 $19,751 – $80,250
$9,701 – $39,475
$13,851 – $52,850


22%
$40,126 – $85,525
$80,251 – $171,050
$39,476 – $84,200
$52,851 – $84,200


24%
$85,526 – $163,300
$171,051 – $326,600
$84,201 – $160,725
$84,201 – $160,700


32%
$163,301 – $207,350
$326,601 – $414,700
$160,726 – $204,100
 $160,701 – $204,100


35%
$207,351 – $518,400
$414,701 – $622,050
$204,101 – $306,175
$204,101 – $510,300


37%
$518,401+
 $622,050+
 $306,175+
$510,301+



Source: SmartAsset


   Who Is Eligible to File a Joint Return  

To file a joint return, the taxpayers' filing status must be either Married Filing Jointly (MFJ) or Qualifying Widow/er (QW). To be eligible for the married filing jointly (MFJ) filing status, the taxpayers must be legally married to each other on or before the last day of the tax year and both must agree to file and must sign the Joint Return.



To qualify as qualifying widow/er (QW), the taxpayer’s spouse must have died in either of the two prior tax years and the taxpayer must maintain a household for a dependent child. 



Also, nonresident aliens generally cannot file as married filing jointly if either spouse was a nonresident alien at any time during the tax year.


   Definition of Married in a Joint Return  

Whether or not taxpayers are considered married on the last day of the tax year is decided by the law of the applicable state or jurisdiction. Same-sex marriages that are legally entered into are recognized for all federal tax purposes.



Taxpayers who divorce or separate under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance that is final at any point during the tax year are considered unmarried for that entire year and cannot file a joint return.


   Benefits of a Joint Return  

Taxpayers who are married and not widowed must choose one of two filing statuses: married filing jointly (MFJ) or married filing separately (MFS). Filing jointly is likely to result in less tax if one spouse earns most of the income and deductions will not be itemized.﻿﻿



Filing separately may result in less tax if both spouses earn the same income and if one or both have medical expenses, casualty losses, or miscellaneous deductions since joint and separate tax rates are likely to be the same and since adjusted gross income floors will be lower. Any time both spouses earn taxable income, the tax should be figured both jointly and separately and a return filed using the status that provides the lowest tax.﻿﻿﻿
What Is the Joint Return Test?  

The joint return test is one of the IRS tests that potential dependents must pass in order to be claimed as such by another taxpayer.





Important

According to the IRS: "You generally can't claim a married person as a dependent if filing a joint return."



The joint return test stipulates that no dependent can file a joint return with a spouse and still be claimed as a dependent on someone else's return, such as that of a parent or guardian. There is, however, an exception to this rule.



Because claiming dependents is valuable, the IRS institutes several tests, such as the joint return test, to make sure that dependents aren’t being double-counted.





Key Takeaways

When deciding if someone who has lived in your house that you have supported and who has not made any money is a dependent, you must apply the joint return test.﻿﻿In most cases, you can't claim someone as a dependent who is filing a joint tax return with someone else (usually a spouse).﻿﻿One exception is if neither the person you claim as a dependent nor their spouse made enough income to be taxable, but they filed a return to get reimbursed for wages withheld.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Joint Return Test  

According to the joint return test, a taxpayer filing a joint return can be claimed as a dependent under only one condition: "that person and their spouse file the joint return only to claim a refund of income tax withheld or estimated tax paid."



A taxpayer may not count someone who is married and files their return with their spouse as a dependent, even if that person makes no money during the tax year and lives in the taxpayer's house if their spouse made taxable income reported on their joint return.



The IRS gives the following example: "You supported your 18-year-old child who lived with you all year while your child’s spouse was in the Armed Forces. Your child’s spouse earned $35,000 for the year. The couple files a joint return. You can't claim your child as a dependent."



Another example: "Your 18-year-old son and his 17-year-old wife had $800 of wages from part-time jobs and no other income. They lived with you all year. Neither is required to file a tax return. They don't have a child. No taxes were taken out of your son's pay or his wife's pay. However, they file a joint return to claim an American opportunity credit of $124 and get a refund of that amount."



"Because claiming the American opportunity credit is their reason for filing the return, they aren't filing it only to get a refund of income tax withheld or estimated tax paid. The exception to the joint return test doesn't apply, so you can't claim either of them as a dependent."


   Joint Return Test for Claiming Dependents  

The modern income tax was first introduced in 1913, and a deduction for dependents was added to the tax code four years later.



That Congress has supported a deduction for dependents for so long is a reflection of its desire to support the option to have a large family, while still maintaining the overall progressivity of the federal income tax regime. The original income tax was quite progressive, with only about the top 1% of incomes taxed. But with that progressivity came a bias against large families, which generally require more income to support.



Congress has continued to support deductions for dependents ever since and made claiming dependents even more lucrative for some taxpayers with its 2018 tax reform legislation.



Starting in 2018, taxpayers who can claim a dependent under the age of 17 will receive a tax credit of $2,000 per child, up from $1,000 previously. Further, Congress raised the income level at which the credit phases out. The credit now begins to phase out at $400,000 of income for married couples and $200,000 for singles, compared with 2017 levels of $110,000 for married couples and $75,000 for singles. This benefit is a particularly valuable part of the tax code for many filers because the child tax credit is a dollar-for-dollar reduction of tax liability, rather than a deduction, which lowers taxable income.
What Is a Joint-Stock Company?  

A joint-stock company is a business owned by its investors, with each investor owning a share of the company based on the amount that they've invested. It is a predecessor to the modern-day corporation and other types of registered companies in the U.S.



Joint-stock companies were created to finance endeavors that were too expensive for an individual or even a government to fund. The owners of a joint-stock company expected to share in its profits.



Today, U.S. companies are not organized as joint-stock companies. While one could describe a business with shareholders using the term "joint stock company," there is no such registration option. Instead, businesses are organized as, for example, a corporation, a partnership, or a limited liability company (LLC).





Key Takeaways

Joint-stock companies are the ancestors of the modern-day corporation, although there are legal differences.A joint-stock company is a business owned by its shareholders, who can buy and sell shares freely.Historically, the shareholders of a joint-stock company could bear unlimited liability for debts owed by the company.In the U.S., incorporation limits shareholder liability to the face value of their shares.An example of a joint-stock company was the English East India Company.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Characteristics of a Joint-Stock Company  

Shareholders of a joint-stock company had unlimited liability for company debts. In the U.S., the legal process of registering as a corporation or limited liability company reduces liability to the face value of stock owned by the shareholder or the contribution of the LLC member. In Great Britain, the term "limited" has a similar meaning.



The shares of a joint-stock company are transferable. If the joint-stock company is public, its shares are traded on registered stock exchanges. Shares of a private joint-stock company are transferable between parties, but the transfer process can be limited by agreement (for example, to family members).



Historically, due to the nature of joint-stock company unlimited liability, a shareholder's personal property could be seized to pay off debts in the event of a company collapse.






   Types of Joint-Stock Companies  
  Registered Company  

A company registers with state and local authorities to be legally allowed to conduct business in the organizational form it selects (e.g., corporation, S-corporation, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, etc.).


  Chartered Company  

This is a company that is incorporated under a nation's royal charter. Chartered companies may have certain privileges that relate to conducting their business operations.


  Statutory Company  

A statutory company is one that is established by an act of a nation's legislature to provide public services that benefit the populace. The company's responsibilities and privileges are detailed by the act.


   Benefits of a Joint-Stock Company  

A joint-stock company can access large amounts of money via numerous shareholders that can be used to build a business. 
Shareholders have a direct say in decisions relating to the management of the company. They also have the right to elect the board of directors.
Shares of public companies can be bought and sold freely on stock exchanges. Shares of private companies may be traded as allowed or restricted by the company.
Today's joint-stock companies provide shareholders limited liability for debts that a company incurs.
New shares and debentures can be issued if the company requires additional capital.
For public companies, there is no ceiling that limits the number of shareholders (a private company may set such limits).
Investment risk is diversified among many shareholders, not borne by one or two individuals.
Public joint-stock companies support good corporate governance and make their externally audited financial statements available for public scrutiny.






The Muscovy Company was a joint-stock company chartered by England's Queen Mary in 1555. Shareholders included explorer Sebastian Cabot and numerous London merchants. The company was granted an exclusive right to trade with Russia.


   Joint-Stock Company vs. Public Company  

While a joint-stock company is not a specific, legal form of a business entity in the U.S., the term could be used to describe a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or public company—in fact, any company with more than one shareholder.



The joint-stock company has a historical association with unlimited liability and the potential for the seizure of personal assets to satisfy outstanding debt. A modern-day public company with shareholders is still a joint-stock company but its legal status limits shareholder liability to ownership/contribution amounts.


   A Short History of Joint-Stock Companies  

There are records of joint-stock companies being formed in Europe as early as the 13th century. However, they appear to have multiplied beginning in the 16th century, when adventurous investors began speculating on opportunities to be found in the New World.



European exploration of the Americas was largely financed by joint-stock companies. Governments were eager for new territory but were reluctant to take on the enormous costs and risks associated with these ventures.



That led entrepreneurs to devise a business plan. They would sell shares in their ventures to many investors to raise money to fund voyages to the New World. The potential for resources to be exploited and trade to be developed was attractive to many investors. Others wanted to claim real estate in the New World and establish new communities that would be free of religious persecution.



In American history, the Virginia Company of London is one of the earliest and most famous joint-stock companies. In 1606, King James I signed a royal charter permitting the company exclusive rights to establish a colony in what is now Virginia. The Virginia Company's business plan was ambitious, ranging from exploiting the region's gold resources (there weren't any) to finding a navigable route to China (there was none).



After many hardships, the company successfully established the Jamestown colony in Virginia and began to grow and export tobacco. However, in 1624, an English court ordered the company to dissolve and convert Virginia into a royal colony. The investors in the Virginia Company never saw a profit.




Why Were Joint-Stock Companies Important in U.S. History?
Joint-stock companies played a major role in funding the settlement of the original colonies. These companies could raise money from many investors, without exposing any one investor to excessive risk. This allowed the companies to raise enough resources to launch successful settlements in the new world. One famous example was the Virginia Company of London, which funded the settlement at Jamestown.




Do Joint-Stock Companies Still Exist?
Yes. Today's joint-stock companies in the U.S. are called corporations, partnerships, and limited liability companies. While there is no legal business registration form labeled as "joint-stock company," the term can be used to describe any business entity that issues stock and has shareholders.




What Was the Advantage of Joint-Stock Companies?
Joint-stock companies (then and now) can raise a large amount of money by issuing shares to various individuals. This made them practical for U.S. colonial-era ventures that couldn't be financed by one person or entity alone. Of course, the shareholders all expected to receive a portion of any earnings, commensurate with their investments




What Is Different About Today's Joint-Stock Companies?
The legal liability that shareholders must shoulder is different. In the past, any shareholder could be held totally liable for debts that a company owed and couldn't pay. Shareholders' personal property could be seized by creditors or the authorities as payment. Today, a shareholder's liability is generally limited to their investment in a company.




What Is a Famous Joint-Stock Company?
A famous joint-stock company was the English East India Company, which was formed to trade with India and Asia. Over the course of its 250-year history, the EIC effectively controlled the colonization and exploitation of India and other overseas territories.


   The Bottom Line  

Joint-stock companies are collectively owned by shareholders. Such companies existed as early as the 13th century. Historically, they left shareholders open to unlimited liability, which did not encourage investment.



Happily, corporate law has limited liability for shareholders. In the U.S., it was limited to the face value of their shares.
What Is Joint Supply?  

Joint supply is an economic term referring to a product or process that can yield two or more outputs. Common examples occur within the livestock industry: cows can be utilized for milk, beef, and hide. Sheep can be utilized for meat, milk products, wool, and sheepskin. If the supply of cows increases, so will the joint supply of dairy and beef products.





Key Takeaways

Joint supply is when a product or process can yield two or more outputs.Cattle is an example of joint supply where cows supply multiple outputs such as milk, beef, and hide.Joint supply isn't necessarily related to joint demand.Joint demand is when you need two goods because they work together to provide a benefit, such as razors and razor blades.


   Understanding Joint Supply  

Where joint supply exists, the supply and demand for each product is linked to the others originating from the same source. For example, if demand increases for wool and sheep farmers, therefore, raise more animals for wool, there will be a related increase in sheep meat production. This increased production will lead to greater meat supply and potentially lower prices.



In some cases, the proportions of the joint products are nearly fixed, such as with cotton and cottonseed. In such cases, proportions cannot be varied. In other cases, the proportion can be variable. For example, through cross-breeding, it is possible to breed sheep either for wool or for meat. So the quantity of one can be increased at the expense of the other to a degree. Analysts keep a close eye on products in joint supply because investments in one can be significantly impacted by what happens with the other. 



Another important issue with joint supply products is the allocation of expenses. Since both products are derived from the same source, it is often difficult to figure out how to divide up expenses.



It is not usually feasible to simply split the expenses down the middle in the case of two products because one product usually sells at a premium to the other. An equal split will artificially deflate or inflate profits on one product or the other. Likewise, randomly allocating expenses will produce artificial results. To handle this on the business side, there are usually pricing matrices that work backwards from the end products to establish costing for reporting purposes.


   Joint Supply vs. Joint Demand  

Joint demand isn't necessarily related to joint supply. Rather, joint demand happens when demand for two goods is interdependent. For example, printers need ink to function. Similarly, ink cartridges are of no use without a printer. Another example could be razors and razor blades, or gasoline and motor oil.



Basically, joint demand is when you need two goods because they work together to provide a benefit for the consumer. If two goods are in joint demand, they will have a high and negative cross elasticity of demand. In other words, a fall in the price of ink may prompt an increase in demand for printers.
What Is Joint Tenancy?  

The term "joint tenancy" refers to a legal arrangement in which two or more people own a property together, each with equal rights and obligations. Joint tenancies can be created by married and non-married couples, friends, relatives, and business associates.



This legal relationship creates what is known as a right of survivorship so if one owner dies, their interest in the property is directly passed on to the surviving party(s) without having to go through probate or court system.





Key Takeaways

Joint tenancy is a form of property ownership normally associated with real estate.Each party in a joint tenancy has an equal interest in the property—the financial obligations as well as any benefits.A joint tenancy creates a right of survivorship, which means that if one party dies, their interest is automatically transferred to the surviving tenant(s).Joint tenancy is different from a tenancy in common, where a deceased tenant's share is passed on to their heirs.A joint tenancy can be terminated unilaterally without the consent of the other tenants.


   How Joint Tenancy Works  

Joint tenancy is a form of property ownership normally associated with real estate. Two or more parties come together at the same time to make a legally-binding agreement with one another through a deed. These parties may be relatives, friends, or even business associates. For example, let's say an unmarried couple purchases a house. At the time of purchase, they opt for joint tenancy. The deed to the property will name the two owners as joint tenants.



Since each party has a claim to the property, they also share the benefits. If they decide to rent out the home to another individual or if they sell the property, each party is entitled to a 50% share in the profits. But the relationship also means they are equally responsible to pay for the property including mortgage payments, property taxes, and maintenance. If one fails to live up to the financial obligations, the other party must assume responsibility.


  Rights of Survivorship  

This agreement also creates what's referred to as a right of survivorship. This means that if one person dies, the other party automatically assumes full ownership of the property. This eliminates the need for probate or the transfer of a deceased person's assets to an estate. Probate courts decide the validity of a person's will and divide the assets up appropriately among the deceased's beneficiaries.



Although joint tenancy is most closely associated with real estate ownership, the broader legal concept of joint tenancy with right of survivorship can apply to a range of assets, including businesses and brokerage accounts. A strong association with real estate exists because the term tenancy is seen as synonymous with owning or living in a home.






There is no need for the property to go through the probate system since a joint tenancy creates a right of survivorship.


   Creating Joint Tenancy  

In most cases, there are four items that must be present when creating a joint tenancy. Note that not all jurisdictions may require these, and in some cases, other requirements exist to create a joint tenancy. The four concepts revolve around time, title, interest, and possession.


  Time  

The requirement of time usually indicates that all joint tenants must acquire their ownership interests in the property simultaneously. It does not necessarily mean that all joint tenants have to sign the same document at exactly the same moment, but they should obtain their interests in the property from the same even. For example, if two people purchase a property together and both names appear on the same deed with the same date, the unity of time is satisfied.



Note that as ownership progresses, changes to the ownership structure are common and natural. For example, should those two people no longer fraternize, one may sever their ownership or be replaced by a new joint owner. Very broadly speaking, joint tenancy most often occurs naturally at the start of an ownership agreement, though it may change over time.


  Title  

Title requires that all joint tenants must acquire their ownership interests through the same legal instrument or document. In practical terms, this means that if two or more individuals are buying a property together, they should be listed as co-owners on the same deed or other appropriate legal documentation. For instance, if three individuals are named as joint tenants in a single deed transferring the property to them, joint tenancy is valid.



This requirement is critical in maintaining true ownership status. Should multiple ownership documents exist, it may be difficult or inefficient to correctly identify not only who owns property but when their ownership took place. In addition, because joint owners have shared financial interests in a property, it is important that all joint owners are clearly defined in the event of financial distress.


  Interest  

Interest refers to a joint owner's apportionment of the property. Interest ensures that each joint tenant holds an equal and undivided share in the property. This means that all co-owners have the same percentage of ownership. For example, in a joint tenancy with two individuals, each joint tenant would have a 50% interest. In a joint tenancy with three individuals, each joint tenant would have a 33.33% interest, and so on.



There are other forms of legal ownership where owner distribute is not necessarily fair or equal; in general, for most real estate transactions, unless otherwise explicitly stated and agreed to by all parties, each joint owner will share in equal interest.


  Possession  

Possession means that all joint tenants have an equal right to possess and use the entire property. It implies that no joint tenant can claim exclusive rights to any specific part of the property. Instead, all co-owners have the right to access and use the entire property as a whole.



This concept distinguishes joint tenancy from other forms of co-ownership, like tenancy in common, where each co-owner may have distinct, separate portions of the property. In addition, it solidifies the liability aspect of the property should something go wrong. For example, should substantial water damage occur in a single room, all joint owners are often liable to share in those costs (ignoring any explicit causes for damage or separate agreements).


   Financial Implications of Joint Tenancy  

Joint tenancy in property ownership involves quite a number of financial aspects. Joint tenants hold an equal share of the property, ensuring equal financial burden and benefits are shared among all co-owners. They also share the costs of property acquisition, such as down payments, closing costs, and associated expenses.



Post-close, joint owners are collectively responsible for mortgage payments and maintaining good credit standing. Property taxes are shared equally among all co-owners, regardless of individual contributions. Maintenance and repairs are also to be shared equally among joint owners , with decisions regarding repairs and improvements made jointly and expenses divided equally.



Income derived from the property should be shared equally among all joint tenants based on ownership interest percentages. In addition, gains (and resulting capital gains taxes) may apply if the property is sold with tax implications varying depending on local laws, ownership duration, and each joint tenant's share in the property.


   Severing Joint Tenancy  

Joint tenancy in property ownership can be severed through various methods. A voluntary agreement allows all joint tenants to terminate the joint tenancy and convert it into a tenancy in common, often through a written agreement or contract. Should all parties not agree, this voluntary agreement often experiences headwinds and may not be able to be fully executed.



Conveyance involves transferring or selling a joint tenant's share of the property to a third party, who becomes a tenant in common with the remaining joint tenants. In some cases, the existing tenants may review or approve of the new owner (i.e. consider partial ownership of professional sports teams that must adhere to a rigid review process with strict ownership requirements).



Partition actions are legal proceedings that can be costly and time-consuming, and involuntary severance may be ordered by a court due to certain circumstances. This may arise due to a dispute or conflicting interests among the joint tenants.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Joint Tenancy  

Although joint tenancy has a number of advantages, there are some distinct disadvantages as well that should be considered before entering into the arrangement.


  Pros of Joint Tenancy  

As mentioned earlier, as long as one joint tenant survives, it avoids the headaches of clearing the property through an estate via a will. Typically, a person's will upon death goes through probate, which is a legal process whereby the courts review a will to validate it. Typically, when a person dies, their assets cannot be accessed or claimed by the survivor until probate releases them.



The probate process also helps determine how a deceased party's assets are distributed if the person doesn't name beneficiaries or doesn't have a will in place. However, the process can easily take months to sort out. A joint tenancy avoids probate and the lengthy legal process that allows the joint tenant to take ownership of the assets immediately.



In addition to sharing the benefits of the property, all of the parties in a joint tenancy share responsibility for the property. For example, one person in the couple can’t take out a mortgage loan on the property and leave their partner with the debt. The joint tenancy applies for all of the assets as well as the debts—meaning if a loan is taken out on the property, both are responsible for the debt.


  Cons of Joint Tenancy  

Divorce or marital issues can complicate a joint tenancy. As stated earlier, all debts are owned by both parties, and neither can sell their assets that are owned jointly without consent from their partner.



Another disadvantage of joint tenancy can appear in the handling of the asset upon the death of one or more of the joint tenants. Joint tenancy gives all the rights to the survivor, so even if the deceased was hoping to pass the value of the property to designated heirs, there is no legal obligation for the survivor to honor that request.





Pros

Joint tenancy avoids probate court when one of the tenants dies.
Even with no will or beneficiaries named, the joint tenant inherits everything immediately.



Cons

Marital issues can complicate and delay sale of assets since both tenants must agree.
Joint tenancy gives all assets to the parter—not allowing the deceased to pass assets to heirs.





   Joint Tenancy vs. Tenancy in Common  

One way to avoid losing control of the disposition of the property upon death, some joint owners opt for tenancy in common (JTIC) instead of a joint tenancy. Tenancy in common allows for percentage-based ownership, and shares can be traded and tenants added throughout the life of the arrangement rather than just at inception.



In other words, upon death, the assets don't automatically go to the surviving partner as with joint tenancy—instead, the tenancy in common allows the assets to get distributed as stipulated in the decedent's will and local laws.




What Does Joint Tenancy with Right of Survivorship Mean?
A joint tenancy with right of survivorship is a form of ownership where each party shares equal rights in a property. If one of the owners dies, their share of the property is not probated with their estate—instead, it is passed on to the other joint tenants.




How Many Joint Tenants Are Allowed in a Single Property?
Joint tenancy can have two or more joint tenants. There is no legal limit to the number of co-owners in a joint tenancy, as long as all joint tenants have equal shares of ownership.




What Happens If One Joint Tenant Stops Contributing to the Property Expenses?
Each joint tenant has a legal responsibility to contribute to property expenses, such as mortgage payments, property taxes, and maintenance costs, in proportion to their ownership share. If one joint tenant stops contributing, the other joint tenants may need to cover their share to avoid default or financial issues. If disputes arise, legal action may be necessary to enforce the co-ownership agreement.




Can Joint Tenants Add New Co-Owners to the Property?
Generally, joint tenancy requires all joint tenants to acquire their interests at the same time. Adding new co-owners after the initial purchase would likely create a tenancy in common instead of a joint tenancy. However, joint tenants can sell or transfer their shares, and new co-owners can be added through this process.




Can Creditors Pursue the Property to Collect Debts From One Joint Tenant?
Yes, if one joint tenant has personal debts or judgments, creditors may seek to place a lien on the property or force the sale of the property to collect the owed amount. The creditor's action could affect the other joint tenants and the property's status as a joint tenancy.


   The Bottom Line  

Joint tenancy is a legally simple way for two or more people to share equal interests in real estate or another form of property. When one tenant dies, there is no need to probate their share of the property with their estate. Instead, the share belonging to the deceased tenant is simply passed on to the remaining joint tenants.
What Are Joint Tenants in Common (JTIC)?  

The term joint tenants in common (JTIC) refers to a legal relationship in which two or more people own a piece of property or another asset where no rights of survivorship are afforded to any of the account holders. If one owner dies, the surviving owner doesn't necessarily acquire the rights of the deceased owner. JTIC gives individuals the opportunity to own a piece of property and share the costs associated with it.


   Understanding Joint Tenants in Common (JTIC)  

Two or more people who own an asset together may be referred to as joint tenants in common. Assets may include real estate, bank accounts, brokerage accounts, investment portfolios, or other types of property. Joint tenants in a common arrangement could be established through a will left by the prior owner of a property to their heirs, such as a parent who leaves their property to their four children. The parent may allocate a specific percentage or equal ownership to each heir.



The member ownership in the account is generally determined on a pro-rata basis. This means each individual in the relationship owns a portion of the asset equal to their contribution—someone who contributes 60% owns 60% of the asset. In other cases, individuals may enter into a relationship that gives them an equal share of the property. Joint tenants in common are entitled to mutually share in the property and do not have the right to deny each other access to it. For instance, an owner can't stop another tenant in common from making a withdrawal or from selling their stake in the property.



Unlike other common legal relationships, when one owner dies, the surviving owner(s) does not automatically inherit their portion of the asset. Each tenant in the account can stipulate how their assets are to be distributed upon their death in a written will. A deceased owner's portion of the asset can only be transferred to the surviving tenants if it is noted in the individual's will.



This kind of relationship may seem unusual, but it is common when two or more people want to own property without having to bear the financial burden on their own. Two individuals may find it more affordable to own a home or a brokerage account by becoming joint tenants in common and split the cost—the purchase price, property taxes, maintenance, brokerage fees, and other expenses related to the asset.





Key Takeaways

The term joint tenants in common refers to a relationship between two or more people who own an asset but have no rights of survivorship.Tenants can specify in a will how to distribute assets upon their death. JTIC accounts can hold an unequal interest in properties but still have equal access and rights to the property. 


   Special Considerations  

An agreement to be joint tenants in common may be formed when more than one party puts their funding into the acquisition of property. The percentage of the assets each party committed would typically be the basis for their ownership and share. For example, if one party committed 85% of the funds needed to acquire a property, they would hold an 85% claim to it.






You can sell your individual stake even if the property is treated as a whole unit.



The property in question is usually treated as a whole unit rather than being subdivided among the joint tenants. In other words, each tenant has the right to use the entire property—not just a portion based on the size of their claim.



Depending on the local laws and type of account, each tenant may have the right at their discretion to tap into resources associated with the joint property or account. This can include withdrawals or even the sale of their interest in the property.



Some states require signatures from all parties that can claim a portion of ownership in order for transactions to be conducted involving joint tenants in common accounts or property. That would compel all parties to agree in order to complete a sale of the whole property. Each tenant could choose to sell their individual stake. Even if a tenant sold their portion of interest in the property, it would still be treated as a whole unit and not subdivided.
What Is a Joint Tenant With Right of Survivorship (JTWROS)?  

The term joint tenant with the right of survivorship (JTWROS) refers to a legal ownership structure involving two or more parties for any type of financial account or another asset. When one of the co-owners dies in a joint tenancy with the right of survivorship, then the surviving co-owner automatically owns the asset.



Each tenant has an equal right to the account's assets and is afforded survivorship rights if one of the account holder(s) dies. A surviving member inherits the total value of the other member's share of property upon the death of that other member.





Key Takeaways

A joint tenant with the right of survivorship is a legal ownership structure involving two or more parties for an account or another asset.Each tenant has an equal right to the account's assets and is afforded survivorship rights if the other account holder(s) dies.A surviving member inherits the total value of the other member's share of property upon the death of that other member.A JTWROS can only be established if the owners acquire the property at the same time, have the same title on the asset(s), have an equal share in the property, must have the same right to possess the entirety of the assets.This agreement avoids probate but does not allow ownership to be transferred to a deceased individual's heirs.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Joint Tenant With Right of Survivorship (JTWROS)  

Contrary to what some people may believe, the term joint tenant with the right of survivorship has nothing to do with being a lessee or tenant in a rental apartment. JTWROS is actually a legal concept that applies to individuals who own assets, accounts, or other types of property. It is actually a form of co-tenancy, which is why this arrangement is also often called a joint tenancy.



Co-tenancy or joint tenancy is a concept in property law that is used to describe the various ways that a piece of property can be owned by two or more people at the same time. A JTWROS is one version of co-tenancy that gives co-owners equal rights to the asset in addition to the right of survivorship. This means that both parties can freely use the asset as they please. But if one tenant dies, their ownership stake passes on to the surviving owner(s).



A JTWROS is most commonly used between married couples, or between a parent and their child. But it can also be established between parties who are not related. As noted above, this type of legal relationship can involve any number of financial accounts or assets, such as:



Real estate
Checking, savings accounts
Mutual funds
brokerage fund accounts



This relationship can be broken if one or more of the parties involved sells their interest in the asset to someone else. As such, it becomes a tenancy in common (TIC), which is a less restrictive form of joint ownership.






All members of a brokerage account are afforded the power to conduct investment transactions within the account.


   Requirements for Joint Tenants With Right of Survivorship  

The creation of a JTWROS requires that the owners share what is known as four unities:



The would-be co-owners must acquire the assets in question at the same time.
The would-be co-owners must have the same title on the assets.
Regardless of the individual amounts that each owner has given or paid for the assets, each owner must have an equal share of the total assets, given as 1/n, where n is the total number of owners.
The would-be co-owners must each have the same right to possess the entirety of the assets.



A JTWROS cannot be created if any one of these four unities isn't established. The parties are then treated as tenants in common.



The language must be extremely clear when a JTWROS account is created. For instance, "Mr. X and Mrs. Y are to be designated joint tenants with rights of survivorship, and not as tenants in common." This is necessary because a joint tenancy is automatically assumed to mean tenants in common in certain jurisdictions.


   Joint Tenant With Right of Survivorship (JTWROS) vs. Tenancy in Common (TIC)  

A joint tenant with right of survivorship differs from a tenancy in common. While each party in a JTWROS has a right of survivorship over the asset, those in a TIC do not have the same legal right. Unless otherwise indicated, this means when a tenant dies, their ownership stake is passed on to an heir or other beneficiary of their choosing.



While parties in a JTWROS must have an equal stake in the asset or property, tenants in common aren't bound by this rule. Instead, this agreement allows parties to have different stakes in the property. For instance, three people may own a home together. If one individual has a 75% claim in the house, the other two are only able to have a 25% stake in the property.



Unlike a JTWROS, there are several ways for parties to terminate a TIC. They include:



Buying out the other party(s)Selling the assetOne or more heirs selling their stake






Creditors with claims against a deceased account owner's assets, including a joint tenant with right of survivorship, may be settled using any of their previously owned assets.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of JTWROS  

There are a number of benefits to entering into a JTWROS. Despite these advantages, this type of arrangement does come with certain drawbacks. We've listed some of the most common advantages and disadvantages of being a joint tenant with right of survivorship below.


  Advantages  

Entering into a JTWROS avoids probate, which is the legal process where a person's will is proven in court and accepted to be a valid legal document. The deceased owner's heirs cannot inherit their property once a JTWROS is established. This means that the last living owner of the property owns all of the assets. They then become part of this individual's estate.



Survivorship also provides the remaining party(s) with other benefits in addition to avoiding probate. Surviving parties are allowed to continue using the asset without any interference from outside parties, including a deceased party's heirs.



Each party in a JTWROS must contribute to the property equally, in addition to holding an equal share and equal access to it. This means they must put in an equal share of any bills, such as property taxes, maintenance, or repairs. This takes the burden off one individual and spreads it out between everyone in the relationship.


  Disadvantages  

The most obvious disadvantage is that individuals can't pass or will their ownership stake to their heirs. Those who want to own property but don't want to give survivorship to the other owner(s) shouldn't consider this kind of agreement.



Everyone should ensure they have a stable and solid relationship before they enter into an agreement like a JTWROS. If relations between parties go south, it can impact the agreement.



Individuals should be sure they can afford the asset before they enter into a JTWROS. Financial strains can put a damper on the agreement, especially when one individual is doing their part. For instance, if one individual can't keep up with their financial obligations to repair a home or make payments on a mortgage, it could have a negative effect on the other party.





Pros

Avoids probate
Allows survivors to use assets without outside interference
Gives each party equal financial responsibility in addition to an equal stake



Cons

Parties can't will their ownership stake to heirs
Relationships can be strained
One party can be negatively impacted if the other doesn't live up to their responsibility







What Is the Difference Between Joint Tenancy With Right of Survivorship and Joint Tenancy?
The primary difference between a joint tenancy with the right of survivorship and a joint tenancy is that the former passes ownership to any surviving parties rather than to their heirs or other beneficiaries. It also avoids probate and gives each party equal access and an equal stake along with equal responsibility for the property.




What Are the Dangers of Joint Tenancy?
Joint tenancy may lead to problems between parties if or when the personal relationship turns sour. It can also negatively impact one party if the other doesn't live up to their financial obligations. And it prevents owners from passing on their stake to someone of their choosing.




Can a Joint Tenancy With Right of Survivorship Sell Their Share?
A joint tenant can sell their share of the asset to someone else. Doing so nullifies the agreement, turning it into a tenancy in common.




Does Right of Survivorship Override a Will?
The right of survivorship does override any wills that are in place. That's because this kind of arrangement avoids probate. But if the last surviving party in a JTWROS dies, the agreement no longer applies, which means the asset or property is included in their will and goes to their heirs.


   The Bottom Line  

Owning property on your own can put a strain on your finances. But you can lessen the burden by entering into a special agreement with someone else. This agreement is called a joint tenant with the right of survivorship. Not only does it give you and your partner an equal share in the asset, but you also share equal responsibility.



Keep in mind, though, that your share goes to the surviving tenant if you die, which means you can't leave your share to any of your heirs. You may be better off becoming a tenant in common if you want to pass on your stake to someone else. Regardless of what route you take, be sure to consult a financial and/or legal professional to guide you.



Correction—April 26, 2023: The article was amended to reflect that each owner in a JTWROS structure must have an equal share, not a percentage, of the total assets expressed as 1/n, where n is the total number of owners.
What Is a Joint Venture (JV)?  

A joint venture (JV) is a business arrangement in which two or more parties agree to pool their resources for the purpose of accomplishing a specific task. This task can be a new project or any other business activity.



Each of the participants in a JV is responsible for profits, losses, and costs associated with it. However, the venture is its own entity, separate from the participants’ other business interests.





Key Takeaways

In a joint venture (JV), two or more businesses decide to combine their resources in order to fulfill an enumerated goal.They are a partnership in the colloquial sense of the word but can take on any legal structure.A common use of JVs is to partner up with a local business to enter a foreign market.












nvestopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding a JV  

Although a JV is a partnership in the colloquial sense of the word, it can be formed using any legal structure: Corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs), and other business entities can all be employed.



Despite the fact that the purpose of a JV is typically for production or research, one can also be formed for a continuing purpose. JVs can combine large and small companies to take on one or several projects and deals.



Here are the four main reasons why companies form JVs.


  1. To Leverage Resources  

A JV can take advantage of the combined resources of both companies to achieve the goal of the venture. One company might have a well-established manufacturing process, while the other company might have superior distribution channels.


  2. To Reduce Costs  

By using economies of scale, both companies in the JV can leverage their production at a lower per-unit cost than they would separately. This is particularly appropriate with technology advances that are costly to implement. Other cost savings as a result of a JV can include sharing advertising or labor costs.


  3. To Combine Expertise  

Two companies or parties forming a JV might each have different backgrounds, skill sets, or expertise. When these are combined through a JV, each company can benefit from the other’s talent.


  4. To Enter Foreign Markets  

Another common use of JVs is to partner with a local business to enter a foreign market. A company that wants to expand its distribution network to new countries can enter into a JV agreement to supply products to a local business, thus benefiting from an already existing distribution network. Some countries have restrictions on foreigners entering their market, making a JV with a local entity almost the only way to do business in the country.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020


   How to Set up a JV  

Regardless of the JV structure, the most important document will be the agreement that sets out all of the rights and obligations of each party to the venture. The objectives, the initial contributions of the parties, the day-to-day operations, the right to the profits, and the responsibility for losses are all set out in the JV agreement. It is important to draft it with care to avoid risking litigation down the road.


   Pros and Cons of a JV  

A joint venture gives each party the opportunity to exploit a new business opportunity without bearing all of the cost and risk. Joint ventures by nature are riskier than "business as usual" and sharing the risk is a wise move.



If the right participants are involved, the joint venture also starts out with a broader base of knowledge and pool of talent than any one party possesses on its own. For example, a joint entertainment venture set up by an animation studio and a streaming content provider can get off the ground more quickly—and probably with a better chance of success—than either participant could alone.


  Cons of a Joint Venture  

Embarking on a joint venture requires relinquishing a degree of control. The vital decisions are being made by two or more parties.



The companies involved must go into the project with the same goals and an equal degree of commitment.



Extreme differences between the participants' company cultures and management styles can be a barrier to success. Will the executives of an animation studio be able to communicate in the same language as the executives of a digital streaming giant? They might, or they might line up in opposing camps.



Setting up a joint venture multiplies the number of management teams involved. If one party undergoes a significant change in its business structure or executive team, the joint venture can get lost in the shuffle.


   Paying Taxes on a JV  

When forming a JV, the most common thing the two parties can do is to set up a new entity. As the JV itself isn’t recognized by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the business form between the two parties helps determine how taxes are paid. As the JV is a separate entity, it will pay taxes as any other business or corporation does. However, if it chooses to operate as an LLC, its profits and losses would pass through to the owners’ personal tax returns, as with any other LLC.



The JV agreement will spell out how profits or losses are taxed. If the agreement is merely a contractual relationship between the two parties, then it will determine how the tax is divided up between them.


   JVs vs. Partnerships and Consortiums  

A JV is not a partnership. That term is reserved for a single business entity that is formed by two or more people. JVs join two or more different entities into a new one, which may or may not be a partnership.



The term “consortium” is sometimes used to describe a JV, and there are similarities. However, a consortium is a more informal agreement than a JV. For example, a consortium of travel agencies can negotiate and give members special rates on hotels and airfares, but it does not create a whole new entity. The agencies still pursue their own businesses independently. In a JV they would share ownership of the created entity, jointly responsible for its risks, profits, losses, and governance.


   Examples of JVs  

Once the JV has reached its goal, it can be liquidated like any other business or sold. For example, in 2016 Microsoft Corporation sold its 50% stake in Caradigm, a JV it had created in 2011 with General Electric Company.



The JV was established to integrate Microsoft’s Amalga enterprise healthcare data and intelligence system, along with a variety of technologies from GE Healthcare. Microsoft has now sold its stake to GE, effectively ending the JV. GE has become the sole owner of the company and is free to carry on the business as it pleases.



Sony Ericsson is another famous example of a JV between two large companies. In this case they partnered in the early 2000s with the aim of being a world leader in mobile phones. After several years of operating as a JV, the venture eventually became solely owned by Sony.




Why Would a Firm Enter Into a Joint Venture (JV)?
There are many reasons to join forces with another company on a temporary basis, including for purposes of expansion, development of new products, and entering new markets (particularly overseas).JVs are a common method of combining the business prowess, industry expertise, and personnel of two otherwise unrelated companies. This type of partnership allows each participating company an opportunity to scale its resources to complete a specific project or goal while reducing total cost and spreading out the risk and liabilities inherent to the task. 




What Are the Primary Advantages of Forming a JV?
A JV affords each party access to the resources of the other participant(s) without having to spend excessive amounts of capital. Each company is able to maintain its own identity and can easily return to normal business operations once the JV is complete. JVs also provide the benefit of shared risk.




What Are Some Disadvantages of Forming a JV?
JV contracts commonly limit the outside activities of participant companies while the project is in progress. Each company involved in a JV may be required to sign exclusivity agreements or a non-compete agreement that affects current relationships with vendors or other business contacts.The contract under which a JV is created may also expose each company to liability inherent to a partnership unless a separate business entity is established for the JV. Furthermore, while companies participating in a JV share control, work activities and use of resources are not always divided equally.




Does a JV Need an Exit Strategy?
A JV is intended to meet a particular project with specific goals, so it ends when the project is complete. An exit strategy is important, as it provides a clear path on how to dissolve the joint business, avoiding drawn-out discussions, costly legal battles, unfair practices, negative impacts on customers; and controlling for any possible financial loss. In most JVs an exit strategy can come in three different forms: sale of the new business, a spinoff of operations, or employee ownership. Each exit strategy offers different advantages to partners in the JV, as well as the potential for conflict.


   The Bottom Line  

A joint venture between companies can open the way for expansion into a new line of business by each participant at a relatively modest cost. In fact, it sounds ideal: Each company contributes its own expertise but the cost of the venture is split among them.



It's only ideal, though, if the companies have a shared vision and an equal commitment to the success of the joint venture.
What Does Jointly and Severally Mean?  

Jointly and severally is a legal term that is used to describe a partnership or any other group of individuals in which each individual named shares responsibility equally.



For example, if a judge rules that a number of people are jointly and severally liable for injuries suffered by a plaintiff, any one of those people may be pursued for payment of the full amount of the judgment.



As the word severally implies, the phrasing of some contractual agreements may specify that some parties have proportional liability. For example, a partner with a 10% stake in a business may have a liability that is proportional to that 10% investment.



Jointly and severally is sometimes referred to as joint and several liability.


   Understanding Jointly and Severally  

In a legally binding document, the term jointly and severally clarifies the responsibility that is shared by each party to an agreement. Essentially, it states that all of those named are obligated to perform all of the actions required under the agreement.





Key Takeaways

The term jointly and severally indicates that all parties are equally responsible for carrying out the full terms of an agreement.In a personal liability case, for example, each party named may be pursued for repayment of the entire amount due.In some contracts, however, financial responsibility is shared proportionally.



For example, if a bank lends $100,000 to two people jointly and severally, both of those people are equally responsible for making sure that the total amount of the loan is repaid to the bank. If the loan is in default, the bank may choose to pursue either for repayment of the entire outstanding balance.



In such cases, the person who is forced to repay the loan will have some legal recourse against the other person named in the agreement, but only after the bank is repaid in full.






If a bank lends $100,000 to two people jointly and severally, either may be required to repay the total amount due in case of default.



Joint and several liability are also cited in laws. For example, employers are generally responsible for injuries suffered to their employees on the job. If a construction worker ruptures a pipe in a house, the homeowner and employer might be held jointly and severally liable for the damages under state law.


  Jointly and Severally in the Securities Industry  

The expression jointly and severally is commonly used in the securities industry in agreements for the underwriting of a new bond or stock issue. In such cases, the firm that agrees to sell a portion of the total issue is responsible for that agreed upon portion plus a corresponding portion of any unsold securities.



Thus, an underwriter who has jointly and severally agreed to be responsible for selling a 30% stake in a new issue must sell 30% of any remaining unsold portion. Each member of the syndicate is responsible for any leftover shares, in proportion to the size of each stake.
What Is the Jones Act?  

The Jones Act is a federal law that regulates maritime commerce in the United States. The Jones Act requires goods shipped between U.S. ports to be transported on ships that are built, owned, and operated by United States citizens or permanent residents.



The Jones Act is Section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, which provided for the maintenance of the American merchant marine.





Key Takeaways

The Merchant Marine Act of 1920, better known as the Jones Act, is a protectionist law that regulates maritime shipping in the United States.The Jones Act requires that any cargo traveling by sea between two U.S. ports must sail on an American-owned ship, built in the United States and with a majority crew of U.S. citizens.The Jones Act was passed in the wake of the first World War to boost the shipping industry.Critics say that the Jones Act increases the cost of shipping for U.S. islands like Hawaii and Puerto Rico.


   Understanding the Jones Act  

The Jones Act was introduced by Wesley Jones, the U.S. Senator from the state of Washington, who designed the legislation to give his state a monopoly on shipping to Alaska. It was enacted by the United States Congress to stimulate the shipping industry in the wake of World War I.



Considered protectionist legislation, the Jones Act focuses on issues related to maritime commerce, including cabotage or the transport of people or goods between ports in the same country.



The Act requires that goods shipped between U.S. ports be transported on ships built, owned, and operated by United States citizens or permanent residents. This provision and its restrictions increase the cost of shipping to Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, and other non-continental U.S. lands that rely on imports.






The Jones Act is a piece of protectionist legislation that considerably increases the costs of shipping goods between two U.S. ports.


   Goals of the Jones Act  

Launched to revitalize the U.S. maritime shipping industry, which had been depleted after World War I.Support the shipping industry and prevent the United States from relying on foreign-built ships.Generate jobs and business revenue. The Jones Act supports 650,000 American jobs, generating $150 billion in economic activity each year.


   Jones Act Requirements  

Ships transporting cargo between two U.S. ports must be owned by U.S.-based companies, with over 75% of the ownership stake held by U.S. citizens.A ship's crew must consist of a majority of U.S. citizens.The ships must be built and registered in the U.S.


   Jones Act Waivers  

In the wake of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, the Act may be waived to increase the number of ships that can legally supply goods to an affected area.The Secretary of Defense can request waivers in the "interest of national defense" and there is a separate procedure for non-defense entities. In both cases, the final authority for a waiver is the Secretary of Homeland Security.


   Criticism of the Jones Act  

The Jones Act has been cited as a factor affecting Puerto Rico's economic and budgetary troubles by affecting trade with the island. A 2019 report found that for Puerto Rico "the differentials between U.S. and foreign-flagged carriers range from about 41% to as high as 62% for bulk cargo and between 29% and 89% for containerized freight.” The additional costs caused by the Act for the island’s economy to be nearly $1.2 billion, which comes to roughly $374 per resident.



The waiver of the Act was implemented in 2022 only after Hurricane Fiona hit Puerto Rico. The Biden administration allowed a non-U.S. flagged ship to transport fuel to Puerto Rico, following pressure to waive the rule in the face of a fuel shortage to ensure that citizens could run generators needed for electricity and the functioning critical facilities.



Opponents hope that a repeal of the Act will result in decreased shipping costs, lower prices, and less strain on government budgets. Proponents of the act include states with owners of navy yards, defense firms, and shipping industries, as well as the longshoremen and other personnel who work in ports.



In early 2022, the Jones Act made headlines for its potential role in the U.S.-Russia oil business. Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in late February, the U.S. banned Russian oil and gas imports on March 8.



The U.S. has traditionally relied on imports from Russia, especially Hawaii, which imports Russian crude oil per year, accounting for up to a quarter of all Russian oil shipments to the U.S. Critics of the Jones Act suggest that it limits the viability of shipping oil and gas to remote areas like Hawaii, forcing the state to rely on imports from Russia.




How Does the Jones Act Affect Puerto Rico?
One consequence of the Jones Act is that it requires U.S. shipping for cargo between Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland, increasing the cost of development for the island's economy.




How Does the Jones Act Affect Cruise Ships?
While the Jones Act does not cover passenger vessels, a related law has a similar effect on cruise ships. Under the 1886 Passenger Vessel Services Act, a foreign ship cannot transport passengers directly between two U.S. ports. This means that a foreign-flagged cruise ship (the vast majority of cruise ships) must include foreign ports in any itinerary that begins and ends in a U.S. port. This often results in confusion or even fines for passengers who disembark at ports that violate the Jones Act.




How Long Can a Waiver of the Jones Act Be Implemented?
In 2020, Congress eliminated the federal government’s authority to issue long-term waivers, except in circumstances where a waiver is required to “address an immediate adverse effect on military operations.” Waivers that do not meet that standard must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. 


   The Bottom Line  

The Jones Act is a 1920 law that limits how cargo is transported by sea. It requires any cargo shipped between U.S. ports to be carried by U.S. ships, with American crews. Originally intended as a measure to support the strategically-important shipping industry, it is now considered a classic example of protectionism.
What Is the Jordanian Dinar (JOD)?  

The Jordanian dinar is the national currency of Jordan and its abbreviation, or currency symbol, is denoted by JOD. The dinar has smaller denominations or subunits. In particular, one dinar is equal to 10 dirhams, 100 qirshes, and 1,000 fils. The dinar is also circulated on Israel's West Bank.





Key Takeaways

The Jordanian dinar (JOD) has been the national currency of Jordan since 1950.The dinar is pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of 0.7090 per one dollar and has been so since 1995.By pegging the dinar to the dollar, Jordan gets the benefit of a stable currency regime, meaning its local banks are likely to attract deposits.Issued dinars have the official name of the country, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, printed on them.The current series of banknotes have denominations of 1, 5, 10, 20, and 50 dinars.


   Understanding the Jordanian Dinar (JOD)  

The dinar became Jordan's official currency in July 1950. It replaced the Palestinian pound, a currency that had circulated in the British Mandate of Palestine and the Emirate of Transjordan, a British protectorate, since 1927. After independence, the country created the Jordan Currency Board to issue and circulate currency.






The Jordanian dinar is considered to be the fourth-highest valued currency in the world.



The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) took over production and monetary policy in 1959. Issued dinars have the official name of the country, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, printed on them. The current, fourth series of banknotes issued by the CBJ have denominations of 1, 5, 10, 20, and 50 dinars. Dinarian coins were denominated in Arabic until 1992 and then changed to English. The dinar has been pegged to the U.S. dollar since 1995.


   Special Considerations  

The country of Jordan pegged its local currency to the U.S. dollar to create stability in its financial system. Typically, if a country's currency exchange rate fluctuates wildly, it's difficult to attract foreign investment, and capital flows might leave the country in search of more stable investments.



By pegging the dinar to the dollar, Jordan gets the benefit of a stable currency regime, meaning its local banks are likely to attract deposits. A stable currency also leads to increases in foreign direct investment (FDI) into Jordan.





$45 Billion

The GDP of Jordan in 2021. It is expected to increase to $47.5 billion in 2022.



By pegging to the dollar, however, the Jordanian central bank cannot try to affect the value of its currency on the open market in response to changing economic conditions such as a recession or overheated growth.



Likewise, if the U.S. dollar gains or loses strength due to American economic circumstances, that can change the buying power of the dinar even though the situation in the Jordanian economy may be quite different.


   JOD to USD Peg  

The JOD is pegged to the U.S. dollar at a fixed exchange rate: 1 USD is equal to 0.7090 JODs. For example, let's say you were sending a wire transfer to Jordan and wanted to convert $1,000 to dinars, the exchange would result in 709 Jordanian dinars. Because it is pegged, this exchange rate will persist over time as opposed to currencies that float in the market and so change their exchange rate over time.




Is the Jordanian Dinar Strong?
Yes, the Jordanian dinar is a strong currency because it is pegged to the U.S. dollar rather than the strength of its economy.




Why Is the Jordanian Dinar So Expensive?
The Jordanian dinar is expensive because its currency is pegged to the USD. The country keeps fixed exchange rates and so its currency doesn't float from changes in supply and demand. Rather, the government has a tight monetary policy that restricts the value of the currency.




Why Is JOD Pegged Against the USD?
The primary reason Jordan pegged its currency to the USD is for the same reason that any country would do so: financial stability. The USD is one of the most stable and widely circulated currencies. As such, its value does not fluctuate wildly. By pegging its currency to the USD, Jordan stabilizes its currency and its financial system. Having a stable currency and financial system attracts more investment, which grows a country's economy and the quality of life for its citizens.




How Do You Calculate the JOD Exchange Rate?
You can calculate the JOD exchange rate to any currency by using a currency converter, such as at XE.com. The exchange rate of the JOD to USD is fixed and so remains the same. One USD is equal to 0.709 JODs.


   The Bottom Line  

The Jordanian dinar is the currency of the Kingdom of Jordan. It has been pegged to the USD since 1995 and has since enjoyed a stable and strong currency. By pegging its currency to the USD it has enjoyed financial stability; however, the country's economy is stagnant and has suffered from terrorism in the region as well as an inefficient public sector.
Josef Ackermann is a Swiss banker who served as CEO and chair of Deutsche Bank from 2002 to 2012 and the chair of the Bank of Cyprus from 2014 to 2019. He was a member of the Group of Thirty, a Washington-based group of international economists and financiers, who analyze global economic and financial issues.





Key Takeaways

Josef Ackermann is a Swiss banker who served as CEO and chair of Deutsche Bank.Ackermann served as chair of the Bank of Cyprus. He was a member of the Group of Thirty, a Washington-based financial advisory board.


   Early Life and Education  

Josef Ackermann was born on Feb. 7, 1948, in Walenstadt, Canton of St. Gallen, Switzerland. He attended the University of St. Gallen, where he studied economics and social sciences and earned a Ph.D. in economics.



Ackermann began his career as a corporate banker with Credit Suisse in 1977. He remained at Credit Suisse for 25 years, earning the positions of general director and board member.


   Deutsche Bank  

In 2002, Ackermann joined Deutsche Bank as its CEO and was tasked with making Deutsche Bank a global investment bank. He spearheaded numerous mergers, improved global operations, introduced a new shareholder-focused management style, and increased the company's focus on investment banking.



During his tenure at Deutsche Bank, Ackermann was engaged in investigations by the U.S. Justice Department related to the bank's investment in subprime mortgages that contributed to the Great Recession of 2008. Investigators found Deutsche mislead investors about loans backing $1.4 billion in securities issued in 2007, leading to hundreds of millions of dollars in losses, according to the fraud complaint.





Subprime Mortgage

A mortgage loan, considered risky, that is granted to individuals with poor credit scores.



At the same time, Ackermann served as chairman of the Institute of International Finance (IIF), the global association of banks, he was highly instrumental in helping to solve this crisis as well as the ensuing debt crisis in the Eurozone.



Josef Ackermann earned €9.6 million in 2009 and €8.9 million in 2010, however, when faced with sanctions from the U.S. Justice Department, Deutsche Bank reportedly attempted to reclaim tens of millions of euros in bonuses paid to Ackermann and other former CEOs.



Ackermann resigned from Deutsche Bank in 2012.


   Notable Accomplishments  

In 2014, Josef Ackermann was elected as the new chairman of Cyprus' largest lender, the Bank of Cyprus. At the time, the bank faced an uphill battle to clear its toxic assets and resolve its balance sheets. Ackermann led the Bank of Cyprus until 2019.



Ackermann has served on the boards of Bayer, Deutsche Lufthansa, Linde, Mannesmann, Siemens, Zurich Financial Services, and Royal Dutch Shell.



He has been a member of the Washington-based Group of Thirty, or G30, established in 1978 as an independent global body comprised of economic and financial leaders from the public and private sectors and academia which aims to deepen understanding of global economic and financial issues.




What Is Josef Ackermann's Business Relationship With Donald Trump?
Donald Trump relied on Deutsche Bank for financing and Josef Ackermann allegedly approved Trump's financing even after Trump had defaulted on loans in 2004 and 2008. However, Ackermann did not recall his involvement in the approvals.




Has Josef Ackermann Taught As a Professor?
Josef Ackermann has been a visiting professor of Finance at the London School of Economics and the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University.




Has Josef Ackermann Ever Been Accused of a Crime?
In 2004, Josef Ackermann was acquitted of charges that he wasted shareholders' money as a member of the board of the German phone company, Mannesmann AG. He was found not guilty of breach of trust in Germany's first effort to jail managers for approving excessive bonuses.


   The Bottom Line  

Josef Ackermann is a Swiss banker who served as CEO and chair of Deutsche Bank during the recession of 2008 and subprime mortgage defaults. He was elected to chair the Bank of Cyprus in 2014. Ackermann has served on the board of numerous corporations, taught at two universities, and was an advisory member of the Group of Thirty.
What Is the Joseph Effect?  

The Joseph Effect is a term derived from the Old Testament story about the Pharaoh’s dream as recounted by Joseph. The vision led the ancient Egyptians to expect a crop famine lasting seven years to follow seven years of a bountiful harvest.





Key Takeaways

The Joseph Effect is a term coined by mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and postulates that movements over time tend to be part of larger trends and cycles more often than being random.The Joseph Effect is a term derived from the Old Testament story about the Pharaoh’s dream as recounted by Joseph, which led ancient Egyptians to expect a crop famine lasting seven years to follow seven years of bountiful harvest.Seven good years are known as the Joseph Effect, while the seven bad years are known as the Noah Effect.


   Understanding the Joseph Effect  

The Joseph Effect is a term coined by mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and postulates that movements over time tend to be part of larger trends and cycles more often than being random. Mandelbrot drew his theories from the Old Testament story of Joseph recounting the Pharaoh’s dream of seven fat cows being devoured by seven lean cows. The interpretation was that following seven good years of crop harvesting, seven bad years would follow.



Seven good years are known as the Joseph Effect, while the seven bad years are known as The Noah Effect. Interestingly, the seven-year cycle is commonly found in modern economic analysis as a predictor of recession timing.



The Joseph Effect and the Noah Effect are early examples taken from history showing that man was attuned to cycles in nature and wanted to become better able to predict future outcomes from recent experience. Human behavior is affected in great part by recent experience, with a tendency to forget some of the more random, and disruptive, lessons of the distant past.



Mathematicians set out to quantify these observed cycles into predictable formulas, and Mandelbrot quantified The Joseph Effect using the Hurst component. The Hurst component quantifies regression toward the mean over time for any number of price movements.



At the heart of each term is the notion that trends tend to persist over time. If an area of the world has been in a drought, the odds are high it will remain in drought for some time to come. A baseball team that has been winning recent games is likely to continue winning. If a stock price has been rising steadily, the likelihood of this continuing is strong. Technical analysts use trend lines to show this persistence principle.


   The Joseph Effect and Leading Indicators  

The Joseph Effect and the Noah Effect are just two of many mathematical trend analyses used by savvy investors. For example, chart analysis is an important tool in predicting future stock price movements. Investors look at volume trends, price ranges, momentum indicators, leading indicators, and lagging indicators.



Leading indicators and lagging indicators are especially important to classify and understand. Commonly used leading indicators include the Consumer Confidence Index, the Purchasing Managers Index, and movements in bond yields, especially when an inverted yield occurs. Corporate hiring plans are also a significant leading indicator.
Joseph Alois Schumpeter (1883-1950) was an Austrian-trained economist, economic historian, and author. He is regarded as one of the 20th century's greatest intellectuals. Schumpeter is best known for his theories on business cycles and the development of capitalist economies, and for introducing the concept of entrepreneurship. For Schumpeter, the entrepreneur was the cornerstone of capitalism—the source of innovation, which is the vital force driving a capitalist economy.





Key Takeaways

Joseph Alois Schumpeter is best known for his 1942 book Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy, the theory of creative destruction, and for offering the first German and English references to methodological individualism in economics.Schumpeter served as minister of finance in the Austrian government, the president of a private bank, and a professor, before being forced to emigrate, due to the rise of the Nazi Party.The economist coined the term "creative destruction" to describe how the old is being constantly replaced by the new.Schumpeter also introduced the concept of entrepreneurship.Schumpeter’s work was initially overshadowed by the contrasting theories of his contemporary, John Maynard Keynes, but it now has become the centerpiece for modern thinking on how economies evolve.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

Schumpeter was born in Moravia (now the Czech Republic) in 1883, to German parents. He studied economics from the progenitors of the Austrian school tradition, including Friedrich von Wieser and Eugen von Bohm-Bawerk. Schumpeter served as minister of finance in the Austrian government, the president of a private bank, and a university professor. From 1925 to 1932, Schumpeter held a chair at the University of Bonn.



Uncomfortable at the rise of the Nazi Party, he moved to the United States to teach at Harvard in 1932. Fifteen years later, in 1947, he became the first immigrant to be elected president of the American Economic Association.



By the early 20th century, economic science in the United States and Great Britain had developed alongside static and mathematically oriented general equilibrium models. Schumpeter’s work differed at times, typifying the continental European approach—more nuanced and less hypothetical—although some of his theories were drawn from Walrasian general equilibrium as well.


   Notable Accomplishments and Theories  

Schumpeter made many contributions to economic science and political theory, but he is best known for his 1942 book Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy, which outlines the theory of dynamic economic growth known as creative destruction. He is also credited with the first German and English references to methodological individualism in economics.


  Creative Destruction  

Schumpeter's most enduring legacy came from a six-page chapter in Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy entitled “The Process of Creative Destruction.”



In this chapter, Schumpeter offered a new, unique insight into how economies grow, sharply deviating from the traditional economic dictums of his day, which held that markets passively tend toward equilibrium until profit margins are wiped out. Instead, Schumpeter argued, economic progress is not gradual and peaceful but rather disjointed, abrupt, and sometimes unpleasant. The economist used the term "creative destruction" to describe the dismantling of long-standing practices in order to make way for new technologies, new kinds of products, new methods of production, and new means of distribution.



Existing companies must quickly adapt to a new environment (or fail). If it sounds somewhat Darwinian—it is, Schumpeter intimated: a "process of industrial mutation—if I may use that biological term—that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one," as he wrote. "Thisprocess of creative destruction is the essential fact about capitalism.”


  Entrepreneurship  

In many respects, Schumpeter saw capitalism as a sort of ongoing revolution that disrupts the current social and economic hierarchy. And within this system, the entrepreneur becomes the revolutionary, upsetting the established order to create dynamic change.



Schumpeter is believed to be the first scholar to introduce the world to the concept—or at least, the economic significance of—entrepreneurship. He came up with the German word Unternehmergeist, meaning entrepreneur-spirit, adding that these individuals controlled the economy because they are responsible for delivering innovation and technological change.



Entrepreneurs are often the guiding force behind creative destruction because they advance the new products, technology, and/or production methods that provide an impulse for change. Entrepreneurial innovation and experimentation constantly destroy the status quo and introduce new equilibria, making possible higher standards of living.


  Business Cycles  

These theories tie in with Schumpeter’s belief in the presence of business cycles.



In Schumpeter's analysis, the history of capitalism has been punctuated by long and short waves. A long wave is prompted by a new set of technologies and industries coming into existence. According to this theory, major advances in innovation can be predicted to occur every 50 or 100 years.



"Barring very few cases in which difficulties arise, it is possible to count off, historically as well as statistically, six Juglars [8-10-year business cycles] to a Kondratieff [50-60 years] and three Kitchins [40 months] to a Juglar—not as an average but in every individual case,” wrote Schumpeter in his book The Theory of Economic Development, published in 1911.



Whenever an entrepreneur disrupts an existing industry, it is likely that existing workers, businesses, or even entire sectors can be temporarily thrown into loss, he said. These cycles are tolerated, he explained, because it allows resources to be freed up for other, more productive uses.


   Example of Schumpetarian Theory  

The internet is one of the best examples of creative destruction, the term that Schumpeter coined to describe the dismantling of long-standing practices in order to make way for new technologies, new kinds of products, new methods of production, and new means of distribution. Existing companies must quickly adapt to a new environment (or fail).



The advent of the Internet rendered many products, methods of production, and means of distribution obsolete. It also caused a drastic curtailing of many jobs, including the roles of bank tellers, secretaries, travel agents, and retail store employees. With the rise of mobile internet technology, publishers of printed material—everything from magazines to maps—also suffered.



The Internet, in addition to other innovations in the field of information technology—the microprocessor, the laser, fiber optics, and satellite technologies—have all fundamentally altered the way that business is conducted.


   Joseph Schumpeter vs. John Maynard Keynes  

Over his many years in public life, Schumpeter developed informal rivalries with the other great economic thinkers of the west, including John Maynard Keynes, Irving Fisher, Ludwig von Mises, and Friedrich Hayek. His work initially was overshadowed by some of these contemporaries', especially Keynes. Although they were born just a few months apart, the pair had radically different views.






In his early career, Schumpeter derided the use of statistical aggregates in economic theory—likely a shot at Keynes—in favor of focusing on individual choice and action.



Keynes viewed the economy as healthy when in static equilibrium. Schumpeter rejected this theory, claiming that equilibrium is not healthy and that innovation is the driver of the economy. Both had contrasting views on government intervention, too. Keynes believed that a permanent equilibrium of prosperity could be achieved by central bank monetary policies. Schumpeter argued that government intervention increased inflation, destroying the economy.



The internet is one of the best examples of creative destruction, the term that Schumpeter coined to describe the dismantling of long-standing practices in order to make way for new technologies, new kinds of products, new methods of production, and new means of distribution. Existing companies must quickly adapt to a new environment (or fail).



The advent of the Internet rendered many products, methods of production, and means of distribution obsolete. It also caused a drastic curtailing of many jobs, including the roles of bank tellers, secretaries, travel agents, and retail store employees. With the rise of mobile internet technology, publishers of printed material—everything from magazines to maps—also suffered.



The Internet, in addition to other innovations in the field of information technology—the microprocessor, the laser, fiber optics, and satellite technologies—have all fundamentally altered the way that business is conducted.




What Is Joseph Schumpeter’s History of Economic Analysis?
At the time of his death, in 1950, Schumpeter was working on a new book, History of Economic Analysis.  In the book, Schumpeter attempts a complete history of the field of economics, from ancient Greece to the present day (the end of World War II). Not just limited to economics, the book also traced the history of political and philosophical ideas and served as a record of significant events.Although never fully completed, History of Economic Analysis has gained recognition as an important work, due to its broad scope and original examination of significant historical events. Some notable topics it addresses include the techniques of economic analysis, contemporaneous developments in other sciences, and the sociology of economics.




What Did Joseph Schumpeter Believe Would Destroy Capitalism?
Schumpeter believed that capitalism would ultimately be destroyed by its success. He hypothesized that the economic system would eventually create a large intellectual class that survived by attacking the system of private property and freedom that was necessary for sustaining its own existence. Although Schumpeter predicted the demise of capitalism, he was an ardent supporter of it.




What Is Joseph Schumpeter’s Innovation Theory of Profit?
Schumpeter believed that the was to introduce successful, well, innovations. The innovation theory of profit claims that the main function of an entrepreneur is to introduce, well, innovations—which Schumpeter defined as any new policy that reduces the overall cost of production or increases the demand for products. Any profit an entrepreneur receives from these efforts is a form of reward for their performance. Creating innovations was the first step on the path to success and economic profits for entrepreneurs.




What Is Schumpeterian Growth?
Schumpeterian growth is economic growth that is driven by innovation and governed by the process of creative destruction. Formal economic models have been created that operationalize Schumpeter’s notion of creative destruction. These models of growth help economists understand the role of competition, firm dynamics, and cross-firm and cross-sector reallocation.


   The Bottom Line  

Joseph Schumpeter’s work initially received little acclaim, due in part to the great popularity of his contemporary, John Maynard Keynes. That changed over time and he is now viewed as one of the greatest economists of modern times. He introduced the concept of the entrepreneur and the influence of entrepreneurship on economic systems. His theory of creative destruction has become the centerpiece for modern thinking on how economies evolve—especially capitalist ones.
Joseph Stiglitz is an American New Keynesian economist. Known for his research on information asymmetry, risk aversion, and monopolistic competition, Stiglitz received the 2001 Nobel Prize in economics. He is currently a professor at Columbia University and chief economist of The Roosevelt Institute.



Stiglitz is the author of many books and publications, including Measuring What Counts: The Global Movement for Well-Being and Rewriting the Rules of the European Economy: An Agenda for Growth and Shared Prosperity.





Key Takeaways

Joseph Stiglitz is an American economist and recipient of the 2001 Nobel Prize in economics.Stiglitz shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Price as a member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.He is a professor at Columbia University in New York City.Stiglitz helped create a branch of economics referred to as "The Economics of Information."












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Early Life and Education  

Joseph Stiglitz was born in Gary, Indiana on Feb. 9, 1943. He earned a bachelor's degree from Amherst College in 1964 and became a research fellow at the University of Cambridge as a Fulbright scholar. Stiglitz earned a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1967. He has taught at Stanford, Princeton, and MIT.



Under President Clinton, Stiglitz served as chair of the President’s Council of Economic Advisers, (CEA.) He was chief economist and senior vice-president of the World Bank from 1997 to 2000.


   Information Asymmetry  

Joseph Stiglitz helped create an area of study known as information economics, a branch of microeconomics that studies how information and information systems affect an economy and economic decisions. His research on information asymmetry helped earn Stiglitz the 2001 Nobel Prize in economics.



Information Asymmetry is an imbalance of information between players in a market. One party in an economic transaction may have more information than another: a buyer may possess more knowledge than a seller, or a borrower may know his repayment ability more than the lender.



Joseph Stiglitz is credited with his screening technique, a method used to extract the missing information needed to complete an efficient market transaction. Stiglitz's screening technique is a frequent tool used by insurance companies and lenders. Insurance companies screen subscribers and sort them into high-risk or low-risk categories in order to charge appropriate premiums. Lenders use screening to sort borrowers by risk of repayment and assign higher interest rates accordingly.






According to Stiglitz, screening is “the process of discrimination, of distinguishing among “things” which, in the absence of screening, would, for economic purposes, be treated the same, even though it may be known that they differ in perhaps some important ways”.


   Risk Aversion  

Joseph Stiglitz's study of risk aversion helped define how individuals make decisions to save and spend money. According to Stiglitz, when uncertainty exists in a situation, economic consequences depend on whether one course of action is riskier than another or if one individual is more risk-averse than another. His theories explain the consequences of risk aversion when applied to portfolio investments, individual savings, and business production decisions.


   Monopolistic Competition  

Stiglitz defined the theory of monopolistic competition, as a market structure where many companies are present in an industry that produce similar but differentiated products. None of the companies enjoy a monopoly, and each company operates independently without regard to the actions of other companies. In monopolistic competition, advertising and branding are key and can contribute to barriers to entry for new firms. Industries like restaurant chains, clothing, and sportswear follow this model.


   Honors and Awards  

Joseph Stiglitz has received extensive recognition for his work in economics. In 1979, Joseph E. Stiglitz received the John Bates Clark Medal, an award given to economists under forty who have made substantial contributions to the field of the economic sciences in the United States. In 2001, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics for his work on the theory of information asymmetry. He is a shared recipient of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize as a member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.



Stiglitz was appointed to the Pontifical Academy of the Social Sciences and named chair of the U.N. Commission on Reforms of the International Monetary and Financial System by the president of the United Nations in 2009. Time magazine named Stiglitz one of the “100 Most Influential People in the World” in 2011, and in that same year, he was named president of the International Economic Association.



Stiglitz serves on numerous boards, including the Acumen Fund and Resources for the Future.




What Was Joseph Stiglitz's Contribution to the World Bank?
Joseph Stiglitz challenged the policies of the international financial community. Stiglitz criticized the conventional wisdom that dominated policymaking at the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the US Treasury Department.His opinions covered such topics as the failure of shock therapy and transition economics, and the limits of capital market liberalization. 




What Is the Institute for New Economic Thinking?
Since the 2008 financial crisis, Stiglitz has played an important role in the creation of the Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET), which seeks to reform the economic discipline so it is better equipped to find solutions to the great challenges of the 21st century.




How Did Joseph Stiglitz Bolster the Ideas of Research & Development?
In the 1980s, he helped revive interest in the economics of R&D. Stiglitz specifically addressed that the speed of research and development in an industry directly increases the total level of innovation in an industry.


   The Bottom Line  

Joseph Stiglitz is a renowned economist who defined information economics. His theories in information asymmetry, risk aversion, and monopolistic competition have created tools used by industry and policy makers.
What Is a Journal?  

A journal is a running record of all of a business's financial transactions. It is used to reconcile accounts and is transferred to other accounting records, such as the general ledger.



The journal states the date of a transaction, which accounts were affected, and the dollar amounts, usually in a double-entry bookkeeping method.





Key Takeaways

A journal is a detailed record of all transactions done by a business.The information recorded in a journal is used to reconcile accounts.Entries are usually recorded using a double-entry method.The double-entry method records a transaction in two (or more) entries. Each entry identifies the account affected, and whether the account is a credit or a debit. The totals of credits and debits must be equal.Single-entry bookkeeping is rarely used.In the investing world, a journal is a running list of trades made by an investor and why.


   Understanding a Journal  

For accounting purposes, a journal may be a physical record or a digital document stored as a book, a spreadsheet, or data entered into accounting software. When a transaction is made, a bookkeeper records it as a journal entry. If the expense or income affects one or more business accounts, the journal entry will detail that as well.



Journaling is an essential part of objective record-keeping. Journals are straightforward to review and easily transferred later in the accounting process. Journals, in addition to the general ledger, are often reviewed as part of a trade or audit process.



Information that is recorded in a journal may include sales, expenses, movements of cash, inventory, and debt. The information is best recorded immediately for the sake of accuracy.



An accurate journal is critical to business planning, budgeting, and tax preparation.


   Using Double-Entry Bookkeeping in Journals  

Double-entry bookkeeping is the most common system of accounting.



Every business transaction is made up of an exchange between two accounts. Thus, every journal entry is recorded with two columns.



For example, if a business owner purchases $1,000 worth of inventory using cash, the bookkeeper records two transactions in a journal entry. The cash account will show a credit of $1,000, and the inventory account, which is a current asset, will show a debit of $1,000.


   Using Single-Entry Bookkeeping in Journals  

Single-entry bookkeeping is rarely used in accounting and business. It is the most basic form of accounting and is set up like a checkbook, in that only a single account is used for each journal entry. It is a simple running total of cash inflows and cash outflows.



If, for example, a business owner purchases $1,000 worth of inventory with cash, the single-entry system records a $1,000 reduction in cash, with the total ending balance below it. Separately, another line indicates that $1,000 has been deducted from the cash account.



It is possible to separate income and expenses into two columns so a business can track total income and total expenses, and not just the aggregate ending balance.


   The Journal in Investing and Trading  

A journal is also used by those in the investment finance sector. For an individual investor or professional money manager, a journal is a comprehensive and detailed record of trades in the investor's accounts and can be used for tax, evaluation, and auditing purposes.



Traders use journals to keep a chronicle of their trading activities and to learn from past successes and failures. Over time, a trader can sometimes spot the errors, emotional decisions, or divergence from investing strategy that caused a loss.



The investor's journal typically has a record of profitable trades, unprofitable trades, watch lists, pre- and post-market records, and notes on why an investment was purchased or sold.




What Information Must Be Recorded in a Business Journal?
Every entry in a business journal must contain all critical information about a transaction. In double-entry accounting, this means the date of the transaction, the amount to be credited and debited, a brief description of the transaction, and the business accounts that are affected by it.Depending on the business, the journal may make room for other entries, such as the tax implications or the impact on a subsidiary.




What Are the Types of Journals?
The word journal has a number of meanings, but all of them refer to a running record of events:A personal journal is to record and reflect on events in a person's life over time.A published journal is devoted to reporting news and events. Some are specialized publications devoted to scientific, medical, professional, or trade interests.A business journal is used to record business transactions as they occur.




What's the Difference Between a Journal and a Diary?
The terms are virtually interchangeable. However, the word diary implies a personal record of daily activities and events, while a journal is often used to explore thoughts and ideas in depth.


   The Bottom Line  

Every business needs a journal. This running account of transactions is critical for recording the day-to-day activities of the business. It is used to reconcile other records and ensure that the management has an accurate and complete picture of business activities.



The journal is also a key document used for purposes ranging from evaluating business successes and missteps to preparing taxes or withstanding an audit.



Correction—Jan. 30, 2023: This article was edited to reflect that in the double-entry system, transactions are recorded in terms of debits and credits, not increases and decreases. Debits do not always equate to increases, and credits do not always equate to decreases.
What Is the Cambridge Judge Business School?  

The Cambridge Judge Business School is the graduate business school at Cambridge University, located in Cambridge in the United Kingdom. Founded in 1990, it is widely regarded as one of the most prestigious business schools in the world.



The Cambridge Judge Business School is known for its connections to the United Kingdom’s technology startup sector, commonly referred to as “Silicon Fen” due to its location in the English Fenlands. It is also known for its friendly rivalry with Oxford University’s Saïd Business School. 





Key Takeaways

The Cambridge Judge Business School is the graduate business school at Cambridge University, located in Cambridge in the United Kingdom.The Cambridge Judge Business School is one of the most prestigious business schools in the world and is known for its emphasis on the advanced technology sector.The school has won many accolades and awards over its history, often ranking highly in terms of its MBA program, Master of Finance program, and other subjects.Though the school has high tuition, statistics show that graduates find employment quickly with high-paying salaries at prestigious companies, primarily in the technology and consulting fields.


   History and Programs  

Previously known as the Judge Institute of Management, the school became known as the Cambridge Judge Business School in 2010. The school is named in recognition of Sir Paul and Lady Judge, whose donations were instrumental in funding various campus development projects between 1991 and 1995.



In 2022, Cambridge Judge Business School was home to 210 students, along with 76 full-time faculty members. Admission to the school is notoriously competitive, with an average applicant GMAT rating of 690 in 2022.



At the faculty level, Cambridge Judge Business School is home to world-renowned experts in a variety of fields, including finance and accounting, business strategy, organizational psychology, and public policy.



The Cambridge Judge Business School is also known for providing a highly diverse program, with students and faculty hailing from all across the world. The 2022 MBA cohort, for instance, included 46 nationalities, and 47% of the students identified as female.



In addition to the full-time MBA program, which lasts for 12 months, the school also offers an Executive MBA program designed for students who wish to study on a part-time basis while continuing to work in their careers.


   Graduates and Employment  

With an annual tuition of roughly £64,000, graduates of the Cambridge Judge Business School saw an average base salary of £75,198 for the 2021/2022 class, and 94% of their graduates received their offers within three months of graduation. Historically, these grads have found employment principally in the technology and consulting sectors, with Amazon (AMZN), Bain, and McKinsey being among their largest individual employers.


   Rankings and Recognition  

Cambridge Judge Business School has received many accolades and awards. It ranked first in the Business and Management Studies category by Times Higher Education. The MBA program at the school was ranked 23rd in the world and first for one-year programs in the U.K. by Financial Times. The school's Master of Finance (MFin) program ranked second in 2022 by Financial Times, and the Executive MBA program ranked 36th in 2022 by Financial Times.




What Is the Acceptance Rate of Cambridge Judge Business School?
The Cambridge Judge Business School has an acceptance rate of approximately 31%. This rate will fluctuate slightly from year to year.




What GPA Do You Need for a Cambridge MBA?
You will need a GPA of at least 3.6 approximately to be granted acceptance into Cambridge Judge Business School to obtain an MBA. This is not necessarily a specific number as acceptance depends on a variety of factors, not just GPA.




What Is the Most Competitive Degree at Cambridge?
The most competitive degrees at Cambridge University are computer science, medicine, architecture, economics, law, and engineering.


   The Bottom Line  

The Cambridge Judge Business School at Cambridge University is one of the best business schools in the world with a rich history and legacy. The school is extremely difficult to get into but offers top-notch education and connections. Graduates find employment quickly and are offered high starting salaries at some of the most respected firms in the world.
What Is a Judgment?  

Judgment is a court decision, spelled out in a court order, that adjudicates a dispute between two parties by determining the rights and obligations of each party. A judgment may require monetary compensation or transfer of property from one party to another. Judgments can also have non-monetary requirements, such as instructing one party to perform a service for the other.





Key Takeaways

Judgment is a court decision that settles a dispute between two parties by determining the rights and obligations of each party.Judgments are classified as in personam, in rem, or quasi in rem.Judgments are usually monetary, but can also be non-monetary, and are legally enforceable.Whereas civil judgments adjudicate disputes between private individuals, a criminal judgment is the result of legal action by the government for breaking criminal laws.Creditors can collect a monetary judgment by seizing the money or property of a debtor.


   Understanding a Judgment  

Judgments are classified as:



In personam is the most common type of judgment that holds one entity personally liable to another.In rem imposes a general liability over a thing, such as property, but no personal liability.Quasi in rem determines the rights of an individual, rather than all parties, in a particular thing, such as property.



Judgments are usually monetary, but can also be non-monetary.



Monetary judgment: If someone has been harmed in some way, they will seek to resolve the dispute in court and collect damages by filing a lawsuit. The resulting court judgment orders the loser of that lawsuit to pay the winner a specified sum of money.Non-monetary judgment: A contractor may be forced to complete a job rather than settle the dispute by paying money.


   Specific Types of Judgements  

There are countless types of judgements that more specifically break a judgement between financial/monetary or non-financial/non-monetary. More specific types of judgements include:



Default Judgment: This occurs if one party doesn't answer or show up in court. The judge may grant the other party a default judgment.
Summary Judgment: This is when the judge issues a summary judgment without a full trial if there is no genuine disagreement as to any material facts in the case.
Final Judgment: This is the court's final determination, finishing the litigation process and addressing all the problems in a case.
Interlocutory Judgement: This is a partial or interim judgment that tackles a particular point in the case without conclusively addressing the overall dispute.
Injunction Judgement: This is when a judge issues a court order requiring a party to follow specified procedures or to carry out particular tasks.
Declaratory Judgment: This is a ruling that establishes the status, rights, or duties of the parties to a lawsuit.
Judgement of Acquittal: This is a ruling where a judge releases the defendant once the defendant is found not guilty.
Consent Judgment: This is a decision made by both parties to a dispute that has been resolved by settlement or agreement.


   Special Considerations  

Most of the time, a judgment will be for a sum of money because money is the most appropriate form of compensation for the harm. As of 2018, judgements are no longer reported on a debtor's credit report. This official policy came after a settlement between the major credit bureaus Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion and 30 state attorneys general. Since this did not come from a law, it could change in the future.



For the winner of a lawsuit, a court judgment is only the first step in getting the money they are owed. Actually collecting the money from the debtor can be a long, arduous, and not always successful, process. However, judgments are legally enforceable. So, if the debtor does not voluntarily pay the judgment, the creditor can take steps such as conducting a debtor's examination, seizing bank accounts, putting a lien on the debtor's property, or hiring a debt collector.






Winning a court judgment may be only the first step to collecting a debt obligation. While judgments are legally binding, collecting payments is an expensive and often fruitless process.


   Example of a Judgment  

For example, if a borrower does not repay a loan or a credit card debt, the lender or creditor can obtain a judgment to force the borrower to pay. As another example, a landlord who evicted a tenant for not paying the rent might file a lawsuit to collect the unpaid rent, and if the landlord won the lawsuit, it would result in a judgment against the tenant.



In a regulatory context, many corporate defendants seek to reach a negotiated settlement rather than risk a costly and unpredictable litigation process. When Wells Fargo employees were discovered to have defrauded millions of customers to improve their own performance metrics, the bank ultimately agreed to pay $3 billion in fines in order to resolve their civil and criminal liabilities. They were also forced to enhance their compliance measures and eliminate senior managers who had been overlooked the scale of the fraud.



The scandal, which first came to light in 2016, was a severe blow to the bank's floundering reputation and an even bigger blow to its share price. Although Wells Fargo stock rose with the rest of the market over the following five years, the bank continued to pay out civil penalties, with shares tumbling with each new enforcement action. In addition to regulatory actions, the bank is also facing litigation from investors who believe that they were defrauded by Wells Fargo's management.






While creditors can seize property in the collection of a judgment, most states offer exemptions for certain types of property, such as a primary home or personal vehicle.


   Civil Judgments vs. Criminal Judgments  

Courts in the United States distinguish between two different types of actions: civil and criminal. Civil actions represent disputes between two individuals or organizations. For example, a customer may seek a civil judgment against a company for a breached contract, or two neighbors may seek legal remedies in a property dispute. These types of judgments typically result in monetary compensation to the injured party, but they may also involve additional fines or penalties.



In comparison, a criminal judgment seeks punishment for violations of criminal law, such as theft or fraud. Whereas civil cases are usually between private individuals, criminal cases are launched by attorneys representing the government itself. In addition to monetary fines and penalties, criminal judgments may also entail imprisonment or loss of certain legal rights or privileges.




What Is a Summary Judgment?
A summary judgment is a judgment made by a court or judge without conducting a full trial. Either party in a legal dispute may move for summary judgment, provided that there is no disagreement about the material facts of the case. This allows both litigants to avoid the expense of a full trial. However, if a party moves for summary judgment, the judge will always examine the facts in the light most favorable to their opponent. For this reason, most parties to a lawsuit will avoid summary judgment unless they believe that the law is firmly on their side.




How Can You Avoid Paying a Judgment?
While a judgment should not be ignored, there are ways to protect some property from being collected. Most state laws offer exemptions that protect certain types of property, such as a primary home or vehicle, as long as the value of that property is below a certain limit.In addition, some types of personal property can be protected under a chapter 7 bankruptcy, allowing debtors to discharge their obligations without giving up their basic property.




What Personal Property Can Be Seized in a Judgment?
When collecting a judgment, creditors can try to seize any property that is not exempt under state laws. This can include real property, vehicles, bank accounts, securities, wages, or even future claims on property. However, state laws often allow you to keep some property up until a certain amount, and debtors may be able to protect any property if its loss would cause them undue hardship. In addition, most creditors will generally not pursue tangible personal property, such as jewelry or clothing, unless it is especially valuable.




What Is a Judgment Lien?
A judgment lien is a court ruling that allows one party to take possession of another's property, usually in satisfaction of a debt or similar obligation. A judgment lien allows the creditor to take over the debtors' real or personal property, such as houses, vehicles, or other personal property.


   The Bottom Line  

The court system consists of various levels including trial courts, appellate courts, and the Supreme Court. In these courts, evidence is presented and decisions are made by judges or juries called judgements. Judgements may result in financial or non-financial implications for a debtor to make the creditor whole, and appeals can be made on these judgements.
What Is a Judgment Lien?  

A judgment lien is a court ruling that gives a creditor the right to take possession of a debtor's property if the debtor fails to fulfill their contractual obligations. This lien may be made against an individual or business and allows the creditor to access assets such as the debtor's business, personal property, and real estate to satisfy the judgment.





Key Takeaways

A judgment lien is a court ruling that gives a creditor the right to take possession of a debtor's property if the debtor fails to fulfill their contractual obligations.Judgment liens are nonconsensual because they are attached to property without the owner's consent or agreement.These liens can be attached to real or personal property, or—if the debtor has none at the time of judgment—to future acquisitions.


   How Judgment Liens Work  

If you owe money to a creditor and don't pay, they may sue you for the balance. If the court rules against you, the creditor can file a judgment lien against you. A judgment lien is considered a nonconsensual lien because it is attached to a piece of property without the owner's consent or agreement.



A plaintiff who obtains a judgment is referred to as a judgment creditor, while the defendant becomes a judgment debtor.



In most states, the judgment creditor must record the lien via a county or state filing. In a few states, if a court enters a judgment against a debtor, a lien is automatically created on any real estate the debtor owns in that county.



Once a judgment lien is filed with the appropriate authority, it becomes attached to the debtor's personal or real property. Personal property refers to assets such as cars, appliances, or furniture. Real property, on the other hand, refers to things like homes and other buildings, or land.



The property must be registered in the debtor's name, so if they have a debt that goes unpaid, the judgment lien cannot be attached to their spouse's property. If they do not own any property at the time the lien is filed, it can be attached to any future acquisitions—provided the lien doesn't expire in the meantime.



One drawback of liens on personal property is that a large portion of someone's personal property has no title. Therefore, liens are not officially recorded against that property, and it could be sold off to a third party who is unaware of the lien's existence.





Note

Judgment liens do not appear on an individual's credit reports, according to the credit bureau Experian.


   What Debtors Can Do  

There are a few ways a debtor can satisfy or avoid a lien altogether. The first—and most obvious—option is to repay the debt. If they pay off their obligation, the creditor will remove the lien. This is done by filing a release through the same place the lien was recorded—the county or state.



It is also possible to avoid a nonconsensual judgment lien on a property or vehicle in bankruptcy—referred to as lien avoidance—if the following conditions hold true:



The lien must have been derived from a court-issued money judgment.The judgment debtor must be entitled to claim an exemption for at least some of his or her equity in the property.The lien would result in a loss of some or all of this exempt equity if the real estate or vehicle was sold.



Using lien avoidance can be an advantage to the debtor if and when it's available. This can be particularly beneficial if a lien can be fully wiped out, although it's still helpful in the case of partial lien avoidance.


   Examples of Judgment Liens  

If one person injures another person or their property in an accident through negligence, the injured person may decide to sue for damages. If insurance does not cover the injured party's required reparations, a judgment lien may be placed against the negligent person's property. The creation of this judgment lien secures payment of the claim. If the debt is not paid, the judgment creditor has the authority to take additional steps. These could include seeking enforcement of the judgment by garnishing wages and potentially seizing bank accounts.



Here's another example. A judge may place a lien on a debtor's car for nonpayment of a car loan. In this scenario, if the debtor does not pay the creditor within a certain time period, the car would be used to pay off the remaining debt. If there's a balance left over, the debtor is on the hook for that. This example extends to trucks, motorcycles, or other motor vehicles, as well.


   Judgment Liens vs. Property Liens  

While judgment liens are awarded by courts without the consent of the debtor, property liens are a little different. These liens are permitted by the debtor, who voluntarily gives up the right to his or her property. So, unlike judgment liens, property liens are considered consensual. If you borrow a large sum of money—say for a mortgage or a car—the lender may require a form of security or collateral.



In that case, the creditor may put a lien on your property. By doing so, the creditor knows it can foreclose on that piece of property if you default on the loan.




What Is a Statutory Lien?
A statutory lien is a type of lien that is based on legal statutes rather than common law or a contractual agreement. Two common examples are mechanic's liens and tax liens.




What Is a Mechanic's Lien?
A mechanic's lien is a type of lien often used in construction projects. If the property owner fails to pay a contractor for their work, the contractor can put a lien on that property until the debt is settled.




What Is a Tax Lien?
A tax lien is a type of lien imposed by the federal, state, or local government on a person or business as a result of their failure to pay taxes they owe. As the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) explains it, "The lien protects the government's interest in all your property, including real estate, personal property, and financial assets." The IRS says it will release its lien within 30 days after the debt is paid off.


   The Bottom Line  

Judgment liens are imposed by courts in an attempt to force debtors to pay off their creditors. When a debtor receives a judgment lien, it's usually best to pay off the debt if that's at all possible,
What Is Judgment Proof?  

Judgment proof is a description of a person who does not have enough assets for a creditor to seize when a court order requires debt repayment. A debtor who is broke and unemployed can be considered judgment proof, as can a debtor who only has certain legally protected types of assets or income.



Being judgment proof, also called “collection proof,” is not permanent. Judgments can be valid for many years, and creditors can continue to try to collect what the judgment allows long after they win a lawsuit against a delinquent borrower.





Key Takeaways

If a person is deemed judgment proof, it likely means that they have no assets and no job.Creditors cannot seize the assets of someone who the court names judgment proof. Social security, disability, and unemployment benefits do not count as assets that can be taken by creditors.Judgments are valid for many years and can be renewed if they expire.


   Understanding Judgment Proof  

In general, two criteria are used to identify a person as judgment proof. The first one is the absence of proper income. An individual who is unemployed or working a low-paying job that pays minimum wage and earns enough to barely survive may fit into this category.



The second is the absence of assets, such as bank accounts or real estate that can be used as collateral by creditors. Income earned from the government, including social security, unemployment benefits, and disability, is exempt from collection by creditor agencies.



When a person is deemed judgment proof, creditors are unable to collect any money they owe. This status is considered temporary until the individual is able to earn a proper income.



Most lawyers advise debtors not to respond to debt collectors if they believe they are judgment proof. This way, the company or agency responsible for recovering money owed on delinquent accounts receives a default judgment.






State laws determine the assets and amount of wages that cannot be collected despite a judgment.


   Example of Judgement Proof  

Suppose a person—call him Mike—becomes too sick to work and uses a credit card to pay his living expenses and medical bills for a year. He recovers from his illness and goes back to work, but he can’t afford to repay the debt he accumulated. The credit card company fails in its debt collection efforts, then sells Mike’s unpaid debt to a collection agency.



The collection agency contacts Mike repeatedly, but he doesn’t pay them anything; he’s struggling to hang onto his house, buy groceries, and keep the lights on. As a last resort, the collection agency sues Mike and obtains a judgment against him for the unpaid debt. The agency now has a court order requiring Mike to repay a sum the court has determined to be valid.



However, because Mike barely earns more than the minimum wage, his wages can’t be garnished, and because he lives in a state that protects his primary residence from creditors, the collection agency can’t place a lien on his house. Mike has no money in the bank, and he doesn’t own a car or any other assets that can be seized and sold to repay his debt. Mike is currently judgment proof.



If Mike’s financial circumstances improve next year and he starts earning significantly more, the collection agency might then be able to garnish a percentage of his wages to start recouping what it is owed. Because judgments can remain valid for a long time and be renewed once they expire, creditors may be able to collect on Mike's debt many years down the road.
What Is Judgmental Credit Analysis?  

Judgmental credit analysis is a method of approving or denying credit based on the lender's judgment rather than on a particular credit scoring model. Judgmental credit analysis entails evaluating the borrower’s application and using prior experience dealing with similar applicants to determine credit approval. This process avoids using any algorithms or empirical processes to determine approvals.


   Breaking Down Judgmental Credit Analysis  

Judgmental credit analysis is used mostly by smaller banks. Whereas large banks often have more automated credit processes, due to the volume of applications they receive, smaller banks will use judgmental credit analysis, as it is not economical for them to develop a credit scoring system or hire a third party to establish credit scores. The judgmental credit analysis is unique in its approach and is based on traditional standards of credit analysis, such as payment history, bank references, age, and other elements. These are scored and weighted to provide an overall credit score, which the credit issuer uses.


   Different Types of Credit Scores  

Though judgmental credit analysis works well for smaller banks, most people are more familiar with the concept of a credit score, and most commonly associate it with the FICO or the Fair Isaac Corporation, which created the most commonly used credit score model. Larger scale banks and lenders utilize a credit score model that uses a statistical number to evaluate a consumer's creditworthiness. Lenders then use credit scores to evaluate the probability that an individual will repay his or her debts. A person's credit score ranges from 300 to 850. The higher the score, the more financially trustworthy a person is considered to be. While there are other credit-scoring systems, the FICO score is by far the most commonly used.



A credit score plays a key role in a lender's decision to offer credit. For example, those with credit scores below 640 are generally considered to be subprime borrowers. Lending institutions often charge interest on subprime mortgages at a rate higher than a conventional mortgage in order to compensate themselves for carrying more risk. They may also require a shorter repayment term or a co-signer for borrowers with a low credit score. Conversely, a credit score of 700 or above is generally considered good and may result in a borrower receiving a lower interest rate, which results in them paying less money in interest over the life of the loan.



Every creditor defines its own ranges for credit scores, but when calculating a credit score, a credit bureau uses five main factors: payment history, total amount owed, length of credit history, types of credit, and new credit. Consumers can possess high scores by maintaining a long history of paying their bills on time and keeping their debt low.
What Is a Judicial Foreclosure?  

Judicial foreclosure refers to foreclosure proceedings on a property in which the mortgage lacks a power of sale clause. In this case, the foreclosure proceedings are settled through the courts.



Power of sale is a clause written into a mortgage. In the event of default, it authorizes the lender to sell the property in order to repay the mortgage debt; in this way, legal proceedings can be sidestepped. Power of sale is permitted in many states as part of a lender’s rights to seek a foreclosure.





Key Takeaways

Judicial foreclosure refers to foreclosure proceedings that take place through the court system.This type of foreclosure process often occurs when a mortgage note lacks a power of sale clause, which would legally authorize the mortgage lender to sell the property if a default occurred.Judicial foreclosure is often a long process, lasting several months to years to complete.


   Understanding Judicial Foreclosure  

Judicial foreclosure refers to foreclosure cases that go through the court system. Foreclosure occurs when a home is sold to pay off unpaid debt. The procedure is carried out according to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is situated, which is almost always state law. Many states require foreclosures to be judicial, but in some states, foreclosures can be either nonjudicial or judicial.



If the court finds that the mortgage debt is in default, an auction can be scheduled for the sale of the property in order to acquire funds to repay the lender. This differs from nonjudicial foreclosures, which are processed without court intervention.



Many states require judicial foreclosure to protect the equity that debtors may still have in the property. Judicial foreclosure also serves to prevent strategic disclosures by unscrupulous lenders. In instances where the auction does not generate enough funds to repay the mortgage lender, the former homeowner will still be held liable for the remaining balance.





120 Days

The amount of time a borrower must be in arrears on a mortgage before a lender is allowed to begin the foreclosure process.


   How Judicial Foreclosure Works  

Judicial foreclosures can last anywhere from six months to around three years, depending on the state. To begin the foreclosure process, the mortgage servicer, or the company to which mortgage services are paid, must wait until the borrower is delinquent on payments for 120 days.﻿﻿



At this point, the servicer will notify the foreclosing party with a breach letter, letting the debtor know they are in default on their mortgage. In most cases, the debtor then has 30 days to cure the default, and if they are not able to, the servicer will move forward with foreclosure proceedings.



The foreclosing party next files a lawsuit in the county where the property is located and requests the court to allow the home to be sold to pay the debt. As part of the lawsuit, the foreclosing party includes a petition for foreclosure that explains why a judge should issue a foreclosure judgment. In most cases, the court will do so, unless the borrower has a defense that justifies the delinquent payments.



Depending on the state, the foreclosing party may also be entitled to a deficiency judgment. A deficiency judgment allows the house to be sold at a foreclosure sale for less than the outstanding mortgage debt. The difference between the debt and the foreclosure sale price is the deficiency. In most states, the foreclosing party can get a personal judgment against the borrower for the deficiency.﻿﻿






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
What Is Judo Business Strategy?  

A judo business strategy is a plan for managing a company by using its speed and agility to mitigate the effect of its competitors. The strategy anticipates and leverages changes in the market through new product offerings. The judo business strategy consists of three components:



Movement (using a firm's smaller size to act quickly and neutralize a larger competitor's advantages)
Balance (absorbing and countering competitors' moves)
Leverage (using competitors' strengths against them)





Key Takeaways

A judo business strategy uses a company's smaller size as an advantage over its larger competitors.Small companies can typically respond more quickly and nimbly to market changes, which may allow them to steal market share.A judo business strategy anticipates and leverages changes in the market through new product offerings.


   Understanding Judo Business Strategy  

The strategy is drawn from the principles of judo, a Japanese martial art, and was used as a metaphor in the book Judo Strategy (2001) by David B. Yoffie and Mary Kwak. The origins could go further back to "judo economics," a term coined by economists Judith Gelman and Steven Salop to describe a strategy when starting a company in a sector dominated by a large competitor.



One of the major aspects of judo is using the size of a larger opponent against itself. As a business strategy, it is designed to give smaller companies an advantage by using their nimbleness and ability to respond more quickly to market changes as a competitive advantage.






Small companies can use their firm footing with a core product and its power to challenge a larger competitor.


   How Judo Business Strategy Works  

Startups and other small businesses might seek to put this strategy to work when contending with larger rivals in their market. The principles and tactics within the strategy include a focus on the core business that is being developed rather than ancillary ideas. This scenario is much like judo practitioners squaring up and finding firm footing as a match begins.



Another principle is to stay on the offensive without getting caught up in one direct attack. This offensive is an effort to wear down the opponent by shifting the points of attack quickly without allowing the opponent to lock into a solid defense or push directly back.



By altering where and how leverage is applied, a judo practitioner seeks to break the footing of their opponent and to divert any counterattacks the opponent might launch. From a business perspective, a smaller business could use its flexibility and capacity to change its points of attack through quick decision-making to confuse a larger competitor that may have rigidly solidified its operations in certain directions and has difficulty adapting and reacting.





Fast Fact

Southwest Airlines managed to gain market share with its "bags fly free" strategy, but larger airlines couldn't match the strategy because they rely on baggage fees as income in the short term. However, in the long term, this has the effect of reducing consumer goodwill.



Preparing and planning to pivot from a judo perspective means using situational and spatial awareness to think through where and when to alter offensive moves. This allows a company to take advantage of a new opportunity to attack. Startups, in particular, must remain aware of their position, condition, and prospects to advance by adopting new approaches.



Sometimes, the initial plan does not result in the success that was originally envisioned. By looking at opportunities that have arisen, the company can better position itself with a new approach.  This is why the term pivoting is commonly used in a positive connotation in the startup circles.
Julian Robertson was an American investor and former hedge fund manager best known for founding Tiger Management in 1980, which grew to be one of the most prominent hedge funds of its generation.



Robertson closed the doors at Tiger in 2000 and went on to mentor younger hedge fund managers and philanthropic ventures focusing on higher education and medical research.



During the 1980s and the early 90s, Robertson was often referred to as the “Father of Hedge Funds” and the “Wizard of Wall Street.”





Key Takeaways

Julian Robertson was a high-profile hedge fund manager in the 1980s and 1990s.Robertson employed a long-short strategy designed to profit from the performance gap between his picks for the best and worst stocks.Julian Robertson lived in New Zealand for a year.He formed the idea for Tiger Management while on his year-long sabbatical.Many of Robertson's proteges who worked for him went on to become successful hedge fund managers.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Early Life and Education  

Julian Robertson was born in Salisbury, North Carolina, on June 25, 1932, to Julian Hart Robertson Sr., (an executive of a textile company) and homemaker, Blanche Spenser Robertson. After graduating from Episcopal High School in his hometown, he went onto the University of North Carolina and graduated in 1955.



Following two years in the Navy, Robertson joined the New York office of Kidder, Peabody, & Co. as a retail broker in 1957. He climbed the firm’s ranks and eventually took the helm of its asset management division, known as Webster Securities. Robertson departed Kidder, Peabody, & Co. for a year-long sabbatical in New Zealand in 1979.


   Notable Accomplishments  

While in New Zealand, Robertson hatched the idea for a new fund. He founded Tiger Management, one of the first hedge funds, upon his return to New York in 1980. Robertson used initial assets believed to be approximately $8 million. Tiger's assets grew to $22 billion over the next two decades. The fund's success is credited to Robertson's ability to identify investment opportunities within the framework of a global macro trading strategy. Robertson frequently employed a long-short strategy, loading up on the best stocks he could find while shorting those he considered the worst.






Julian Robertson is credited with being the first major hedge funder, and his success spawned numerous successful hedge fund investors.



In the late 1990s, Robertson was also known for his avoidance of tech investments during the buildup of internet stocks in the late 1990s. This avoidance was a double-edged sword for Tiger Management. The fund performed well during the eventual collapse of the tech bubble but suffered from a drain of capital as investors took their money to Silicon Valley. An additional stressor came from a significant investment in U.S. Airways, which did not go well for Robertson. U.S. Airways would file for bankruptcy protection in 2002 and again in 2004.



Robertson liquidated the Tiger Management fund in 2000 following poor performance. He wrote that Tiger’s success had been based on a rational approach to valuation and trading. This strategy had proven less effective alongside the irrational growth of internet stocks.



In the years that followed, Robertson focused his efforts on mentoring and investing with a slate of up-and-coming hedge fund managers known as the “Tiger Cubs.” Prominent members of this group include John Griffin of Blue Ridge Capital, Ole Andreas Halvorsen of Viking Global, Chase Coleman of Tiger Global Management, and Steve Mandel, formerly of Lone Pine Capital.


   Wealth and Philanthropy  

Robertson was active in philanthropic activities after turning away from fund management. He founded scholarships at his alma mater and Duke University and committed to The Giving Pledge, a campaign launched by Bill Gates and Warren Buffet. Robertson was also active in New Zealand, purchasing a handful of luxury lodges throughout the country.



Forbes reported that Robertson donated $1.3 billion to charitable causes. Among them include environmental protection, charter schools, and medical research. As of April 5, 2022, Robertson was reportedly worth $4.8 billion. Julian Robertson died on August 23, 2022 at the age of 90, at his home in New York.




Who Is the Wizard of Wall Street?
Julian Robertson was a billionaire who made his money in hedge funds who was nicknamed the "wizard of Wall Street" due to his investment acumen.




Is Julian Robertson Alive?
Julian Robertson passed away on August 23, 2022 at the age of 90, at his home in New York. Following his retirement Robertson spent much of his time as an active philanthropist, who donated over $1 billion to charitable funds.




Who Were the Tiger Cubs?
The phrase "tiger cubs" referred to the young hedge fund managers who worked at Julian Robertson's Tiger Management Fund firm. Many of them became successful hedge fund operators after moving on from Tiger Management, where they were trained under Robertson.


   The Bottom Line  

Julian Robertson was a former hedge fund manager who founded Tiger Management, a highly successful hedge fund in the eighties and nineties. The fund was one of the most well-known hedge funds of its generation before it closed in 2000. Robertson was known for his business acumen, generous philanthropic work, and mentoring young investors interested in operating hedge funds.
What Is a Jumbo Certificate of Deposit (CD)?  

A jumbo certificate of deposit is a CD that requires a higher minimum balance obligation than that required by traditional CDs. In return, the jumbo CD pays a higher rate of interest. A CD is a type of savings account that pays fixed or variable interest in exchange for depositors leaving their funds in the account until a specified date of maturity.





Key Takeaways

A jumbo CD usually has a minimum balance requirement of $100,000.Although jumbo CDs have higher minimum balance requirements than traditional CDs, in return they pay a higher interest rate.Jumbo CDs pay investors a fixed rate of interest, helping to stabilize returns in an investment portfolio by partly offsetting market risk.


   Understanding Jumbo CDs  

Traditional CDs typically offer a higher rate of return than do standard savings accounts or interest-bearing checking accounts. In this same vein, the jumbo CD will pay an even higher rate than is offered by traditional CDs. Jumbos receive a higher rate because they require a larger minimum investment than the standard CD. Most jumbo CDs start at $100,000, but some financial institutions offering them may have a few products with lower entry points.



Jumbo CDs are considered risk-free investments, as they’re insured up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Credit unions also market jumbo CDs, and these funds find protection under the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).



Investors receive the premium—based on the fixed interest rate—as compensation for not having access to their money over the life of the account. A one-year jumbo CD that pays 1.5% interest, for example, may require that the funds remain locked up in the account for one year. Jumbo CDs can have term lengths as short as a few days or as long as a decade. However, the standard range is between three months and five years. And the longer the term, the higher the interest rate returned on the funds invested.



Upon maturity of the CD, the financial institution returns the investor’s principal. Early withdrawals may be possible, depending on the terms of the product purchased. However, the investor will pay a penalty for early termination of the contract.





$250,000

The amount up to which the FDIC insures CDs.


   Advantages of Jumbo CDs  

Large institutional investors are the typical customer for jumbo CDs. These large institutions include banks, some large corporations, and pension funds. Primarily, this is due to the high minimum balance requirements. These customers use jumbo CDs as a temporary investment vehicle, as some issuers have tenures for as little as seven days. The short-term maturities allow institutional investors and companies to earn interest on idle money for short periods before rolling the funds into other ventures. These jumbo CDs are instruments for treasury management of large corporations and money market instruments for large investors.



Other than being paid to park their funds in these products, large investors use them as instruments to reduce their portfolio’s market risk exposure. Market risk arises when the prices in the stock market fluctuate over time. As a result, stock portfolios can earn high returns, but they can also incur large losses. The steady interest paid on jumbo CDs helps offset and reduce the risk of negative returns that can happen from holding stocks.



A business seeking a loan or other type of financing from a bank can pledge its jumbo CD as collateral, which is an asset held by a lender as security for a loan in the event the borrower falls behind or defaults on the loan payments. If the borrower defaults on the timely submission of payments, the lender can seize the collateral to recoup any losses. However, CDs held in retirement accounts cannot be pledged as collateral for loans.






Jumbo CDs can be used as collateral for loans.


   Disadvantages of Jumbo CDs  

Although jumbo CDs have positive aspects of higher rates and FDIC protection, there are disadvantages to investing in them. Historically, jumbo CDs have paid a much higher rate than traditional CDs and savings accounts. Nevertheless, the differences between those returns have narrowed in recent years, making a jumbo CD a less-compelling investment.


  Inflation risk  

Jumbo CDs don’t typically keep up with inflation. If the inflation rate in the economy is 2%, for example, and the interest rate on the CD is 2.5%, the investor is only earning 0.5% in real terms. To make an investment in a jumbo CD worthwhile, investors would need to lock in their funds for longer terms, resulting in a higher rate.


  Early-withdrawal penalties  

Should the holder need these funds before the jumbo CD matures, withdrawing them would result in a financial penalty, which could be a fee assessed by the bank for the loss of interest earned to date. Each bank will have specific rules and guidelines for early withdrawals. If it’s likely that the funds might be needed before the CD’s maturity, investors might be better off investing the funds in an account that doesn’t have withdrawal restrictions, such as a high-interest savings account.


  Interest rate risk  

Another worry for jumbo CD investors is interest rate risk. This comes when current market interest rates rise above the one offered by the jumbo CD. If interest rates rise while investors are holding a jumbo CD, they miss out on the higher rates they could have had if these funds had been available to invest elsewhere.


  Reinvestment rate risk  

Conversely, if interest rates fall during the holding period, at maturity the investor may not be able to reinvest the funds at a rate comparable to the CD. This hazard is known as reinvestment risk. Although jumbo CDs pay a higher rate at the onset as compared to other products, investors must weigh the pros and cons to ensure they don’t wind up with a lower return in the long term.





Pros

Jumbo CDs offer a steady rate of interest for the length of the holding term.
Jumbo CDs typically pay a higher interest rate than do traditional CDs or savings accounts.
The steady interest paid on jumbo CDs can partly offset the portfolio’s market risk of negative returns from holding stocks.
Jumbo CDs carry a guarantee of up to $250,000 per account by the FDIC or the NCUA.



Cons

Jumbo CDs pay a lower return than many other fixed-rate investments, such as bonds.
In a rising market interest rate environment, jumbo CDs face interest rate risk, as investors might hold a CD paying a lower rate.
Jumbo CDs don’t typically keep up with inflation, meaning prices could rise at a faster rate than the CD’s rate of return.
Investors cannot access their funds in jumbo CDs before maturity without incurring an early-withdrawal penalty.
Jumbo CDs can have high minimum balance requirements.





   Examples of Jumbo CDs  

Veridian Credit Union, founded in Waterloo, Iowa, in 1934, offers many types of CDs, including jumbo CDs. Examples of the jumbo rate as of Jan. 23, 2023, include:



A nine-month jumbo CD with a minimum $100,000 deposit pays 4.90%An 15-month jumbo CD with a minimum $100,000 deposit pays 4.85%



Please note: The interest rates being offered can change at any time for new CDs and might be different depending on the state in which the depositor is located.




What Is the Shortest Term for a Jumbo CD?
Jumbo CD terms can be as short as a few days, but these extremely short terms are hard to find. More commonly, three months is the minimum term for a jumbo CD.




Do Jumbo CDs Earn a Higher Interest Rate Than a Normal CD?
Since jumbo CDs require a much higher minimum deposit, banks and credit unions typically reward savers with higher interest rates than for smaller accounts. Longer terms also earn higher interest rates. Those higher rates are incentive to reduce the liquidity of your savings.




How Much of my Jumbo CD Is FDIC or NCUA-insured?
The FDIC or NCUA insures up the first $250,000 in each account at an affiliated bank or credit union.


   The Bottom Line  

Jumbo CDs are a very safe place to hold money. Banks are willing to offer attractive interest rates for savers in exchange for fixed terms. While jumbo CDs are safe, they may not be the best place to earn money in a volatile interest environment. If interest rates are rising and you're locked into a long-term CD, you may miss out on the opportunity to invest at a higher rate. Consider your term length carefully before making a decision.
What Is a Jumbo Loan?  

A jumbo loan, also known as a jumbo mortgage, is a type of financing that exceeds the limits set by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). Unlike conventional mortgages, a jumbo loan is not eligible to be purchased, guaranteed, or securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.



Designed to finance luxury properties and homes in highly competitive local real estate markets, jumbo mortgages come with unique underwriting requirements and tax implications. These kinds of mortgages gained traction as the housing market recovered following the Great Recession.





Key Takeaways

A jumbo loan, also known as a jumbo mortgage, is a type of financing that exceeds the limits set by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) and cannot be purchased, guaranteed, or securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.Homeowners must undergo more rigorous credit requirements than those applying for a conventional loan.Approval requires a stellar credit score and a very low debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. The average annual percentage rate (APR) for a jumbo mortgage is often par with conventional mortgages, while down payments are roughly 10% to 15% of the total purchase price.


   Advantages of a Jumbo Loan  

The primary advantage of a jumbo loan is that it allows borrowers to take out a mortgage that exceeds the limits put in place by the FHFA.



This limit varies by state—and even by county. The FHFA sets the conforming loan limit size for different areas on an annual basis. The limit for 2023 is set at $726,200 for most of the country. This is an increase of $79,000 from the 2022 limit of $647,200. For counties that have higher home values, the baseline limit is set at $1,089,300, or 150% of $726,200.



The FHFA has a different set of provisions for areas outside of the continental United States for loan limit calculations. As a result, the baseline limit for a jumbo loan in Alaska, Guam, Hawaii, and the U.S. Virgin Islands as of 2023 is also $1,089,300. That amount may actually be even higher in counties that have higher home values.



If you have your sights set on a home that costs close to half a million dollars or more—and you don’t have that much sitting in a bank account—you’re probably going to need a jumbo mortgage. And if you’re trying to land one, you’ll face much more rigorous credit requirements than homeowners applying for a conventional loan. That’s because jumbo loans carry more credit risk for the lender since there is no guarantee by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. There’s also more risk because more money is involved.


   How a Jumbo Loan Works  

Just like traditional mortgages, minimum requirements for a jumbo mortgage have become increasingly stringent since 2008. To get approved, you’ll need a stellar credit score—700 or above—and a very low debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. The DTI should be under 43% and preferably closer to 36%. Although they are nonconforming mortgages, jumbos still must fall within the guidelines of what the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau considers a “qualified mortgage”—a lending system with standardized terms and rules, such as the 43% DTI.



You’ll need to prove you have accessible cash on hand to cover your payments, which are likely to be very high if you opt for a standard 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. Specific income levels and reserves depend on the size of the overall loan, but all borrowers need 30 days of pay stubs and W-2 tax forms stretching back two years. If you’re self-employed, the income requirements are greater: two years of tax returns and at least 60 days of current bank statements. The borrower also needs provable liquid assets to qualify and cash reserves equal to six to 12 months of the mortgage payments. And all applicants have to show proper documentation on all other loans held and proof of ownership of nonliquid assets (like other real estate).


   Jumbo Loan Rates  

While jumbo mortgages used to carry higher interest rates than conventional mortgages, the gap has been closing in recent years. Today, the average annual percentage rate (APR) for a jumbo mortgage is often par with conventional mortgages—and in some cases, actually lower. As of July 21, 2023, Wells Fargo, for example, charged an APR of 6.699% on a 30-year fixed-rate conforming loan and 6.341% for the same term on a jumbo loan. 



Even though the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) can’t handle them, jumbo loans are often securitized by other financial institutions; since these securities carry more risk, they trade at a yield premium to conventional securitized mortgages. However, this spread has been reduced with the interest rate of the loans themselves.


   Down Payment on a Jumbo Loan  

Fortunately, down payment requirements have loosened over the same time period. In the past, jumbo mortgage lenders often required homebuyers to put up 30% of the residence’s purchase price (compared to 20% for conventional mortgages). Now, that figure has fallen as low as 10% to 15%. As with any mortgage, there can be various advantages to making a higher down payment—among them, to avoid the cost of the private mortgage insurance (PMI) that lenders require for down payments below 20%.


   Who Should Take Out a Jumbo Loan?  

How much you can ultimately borrow depends, of course, on your assets, your credit score, and the value of the property that you’re interested in buying. These mortgages are considered most appropriate for a segment of high-income earners who make $250,000 to $500,000 a year. This segment is known as HENRY, an acronym for high earners, not rich yet. Basically, these are people who generally make a lot of money but don’t have millions in extra cash or other assets accumulated—yet.



While an individual in the HENRY segment may not have amassed the wealth to purchase an expensive new home with cash, such high-income individuals do usually have better credit scores and more extensively established credit histories than the average homebuyer seeking a conventional mortgage loan for a lower amount. They also tend to have more solidly established retirement accounts. They often have been contributing for a longer period of time than lower-income earners.






Don’t expect a big tax break on a jumbo loan. The cap on the mortgage interest deduction is limited to $750,000 ($375,000 if married, filing separately) for new mortgage debt secured after 2017.



These are just the sorts of individuals whom institutions love to sign up for long-term products, partly because they often need additional wealth management services. Plus, it’s more practical for a bank to administer a single $2 million mortgage than 10 loans valued at $200,000 apiece.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Special Considerations for a Jumbo Loan  

Just because you may qualify for one of these loans doesn’t mean you should take one out. You certainly shouldn’t if you are counting on it furnishing you with a substantial tax break, for example.



You’re probably aware that you can deduct the mortgage interest you paid for any given year from your taxes, providing that you itemize your deductions. But you probably never had to worry about the cap that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) places on this deduction—a cap that was lowered by the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Anyone who got a mortgage on Dec. 14, 2017, or earlier can deduct interest on up to $1 million in debt, which is the amount of the old cap. But for home purchases made after Dec. 14, 2017, you can only deduct the interest on up to $750,000 in mortgage debt. If your mortgage is larger, you don’t get the full deduction. If you plan to take out a $2 million jumbo mortgage that accrues $80,000 in interest a year, for example, you can only deduct $30,000—the interest on the first $750,000 of your mortgage. In effect, you only get a tax break on 37.5% of the mortgage interest.



This means that you should borrow with care and crunch the numbers carefully to see what you can truly afford and what kinds of tax benefits you will receive. With the state and local tax deduction limited to $10,000 a year, due to the same tax bill, a highly taxed property will also cost you more to own. One other strategy: Compare terms to see if taking out a smaller conforming loan plus a second loan, instead of one big jumbo, might prove better for your finances in the long haul.




What Are the Jumbo Loan Requirements?
To get approved, you’ll need a stellar credit score—700 or above—and a very low debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. The DTI should be under 43% and preferably closer to 36%. Although they are nonconforming mortgages, jumbos still must fall within the guidelines of what the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau considers a “qualified mortgage”—a lending system with standardized terms and rules, such as the 43% DTI.




What Is the Down Payment on a Jumbo Loan?
In the past, jumbo mortgage lenders often required homebuyers to put up 30% of the residence’s purchase price (compared to 20% for conventional mortgages). Now, that figure has fallen as low as 10% to 15%.




What Are Considered Jumbo Loans?
A loan is considered jumbo if the amount of the mortgage exceeds loan-servicing limits set by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac—currently $726,200 for a single-family home in all states (except Hawaii and Alaska and a few federally designated high-cost markets, where the limit is $1,089,300).


   The Bottom Line  

A jumbo loan, also known as a jumbo mortgage, is a type of financing that exceeds the limits set by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) and cannot be purchased, guaranteed, or securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.



Homeowners applying for a jumbo loan must undergo more rigorous credit requirements than those applying for a conventional loan. Approval requires a stellar credit score and a very low debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. The average annual percentage rate (APR) for a jumbo mortgage is often par with conventional mortgages, while down payments are roughly 10% to 15% of the total purchase price.
What Is a Jumbo Pool?  

A jumbo pool is a pass-through Ginnie Mae II mortgage-backed security (MBS) that is collateralized by multiple-issuer pools. These pools combine mortgage loans with similar characteristics and are more massive than single-issuer pools. The mortgages contained in jumbo pools are more diverse on a geographical basis than are those in single-issuer pools.





Key Takeaways


A jumbo pool is a pass-through Ginnie Mae II mortgage-backed security (MBS) that is collateralized by multiple-issuer pools.
"Ginnie Mae" is the colloquial name for the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).
Jumbo pools make the principal and interest payments received by investors predictable and less volatile, making them a safer form of mortgage-backed security (MBS) investment.
Some of the primary risks to jumbo pools include early payment to mortgages (such as paying off refinanced loans at lower interest rates) and the natural shrinking of the principal payment as the loans in the jumbo pool are paid off.
Jumbo pools are not geographically limited.



   Understanding Jumbo Pools  

Jumbo pools are groups of mortgage loans from multiple lenders that are securitized by selling shares of the pools on the open market to investors. The investors who purchase these securities receive an aggregate principal and interest payments from a central paying agent, usually yearly or every six months.



Interest rates on mortgage loans contained within the jumbo pools may vary within one percentage point. This limited variation of interest makes the principal and interest payments received by investors predictable and less volatile. Because multiple issuers back these pools, they are typically considered a safer form of mortgage-backed security (MBS) investment.


   Creation of a Jumbo Pool  

The creation of a jumbo pool starts when an approved lender applied for a commitment from Ginnie Mae that guarantees the securities. The lender originates or acquires the mortgage loans, assembling them into a mortgage pool. During the creation phase, the lender will compile sets of mortgages from different geographical locations, versus the more location-specific nature of single-issuer pools.



Once this is done, the lender chooses who they will sell the security to, submitting the required paperwork to Ginnie Mae to a specialized pool processing agent. The agent, once approved, prepares and delivers the securities to the investors designated by the lender. The lender is ultimately responsible for selling the securities as well as servicing the underlying mortgages.


   Benefits of Jumbo Pools  

In general, jumbo pools tend to bear less risk than traditional mortgage pools. While all mortgage-backed securities carry some risk, diversifying the pool by geography tends to mitigate many of the reasons debtholders default on their loans.



Regionally, mortgage holders may default on notes due to a natural disaster in the area or the closure of localized industries. Loss of job has a statistical probability for any given debtholder, but economies tend to vary regionally, so defaults because of loss of employment follow local economic downturns. Thus, jumbo pools have less risk associated with local economic conditions than do pools of mortgage loans from a single lender.






Jumbo pools, due to their diverse nature, consist of loans that are guaranteed at several different levels by the government.


   Risk Associated With Jumbo Pools  

Potential risks to investors include early payment of one or more of the mortgage loans in the jumbo pool. Mortgage holders may make extra payments to pay off their mortgages early or sell their houses and pay off the entire amount at one time. When interest rates fall, mortgage holders may refinance their loans at a lower rate and pay off the entire mortgage to do so.



Another risk to investors in jumbo pools is the natural shrinking of the principal payment as the loans in the jumbo pool are paid down. This shrinking of the size of the principal owed decreases the size of the corresponding interest payments.



For instance, if the principal is $10,000 and the rate is 6%, the interest will be $600. If the amount of payment or prepayment on the pool's principal is $100, then the next interest payment will be on the smaller dollar amount (6% of $9,900 = $594).



These risks to investors of early payment of a loan and shrinking of the principal are not specific to jumbo pools and affect all investors in mortgage-backed securities.




What Is the Difference Between a Jumbo Mortgage and a Regular Mortgage?
Jumbo and regular mortgages differ first by the property being purchased. A jumbo will typically be used to purchase an expensive property whereas a conventional mortgage is more common for the average homebuyer buying a home with a lower price tag. Regular mortgages fall within the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) restrictions on loan size.




What Is a Pass-Through Security?
A pass-through security is a pool of fixed-income securities that are backed by a package of assets, typically mortgages. Each security in the pool represents a large number of debts. These pools can represent hundreds or thousands of debts such as mortgages or car loans.




What Are the Different Types of Mortgage-Backed Securities?
There are two common types of mortgage-backed securities: pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, known as CMOs. Pass-through securities are structured as trusts. The mortgage payments are collected and passed on to investors. CMOs are made of pools of securities, called tranches, which are given specific credit ratings and rates that are returned to investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Jumbo pools are large pass-through securities that are collateralized by multiple-issuer pools. They tend to be safer than single-issuer pools because they consist of more diverse mortgages that are not geographically linked. Although they are open to the same risks as singe-issuer pools, namely early payment risk and the shrinking of the principal, they are still considered a less volatile investment.
What Is the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act?  

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act is a piece of U.S. legislation that was signed into law by President Barack Obama on April 5, 2012, that loosens regulations instituted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on small businesses. It lowers reporting and disclosure requirements for companies with less than $1 billion in revenue and allows the advertising of securities offerings. It also allows greater access to crowdfunding and greatly expands the number of companies that can offer stock without going through SEC registration.





Key Takeaways

The JOBS Act loosens regulations on reporting, oversight, and advertising for companies trying to raise investor funds.The law allows companies with under $1 billion in revenue to disclose less information to investors.The law allows non-accredited investors to invest in startups through crowdfunding and "mini-IPOs."The intended goal of the JOBS Act was to revitalize the small business sector after the financial crisis, helping entrepreneurs start businesses, grow current businesses, and putting Americans back to work.Deregulation under the JOBS Act helps businesses access funding but also increases the risk of investors being victims of fraud.


   Understanding the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act  

The JOBS Act is meant to make it easier for startups to raise capital. Secondarily, it is meant to allow retail investors to invest in startups. Proponents of the legislation contended that SEC rules were preventing startups from raising the capital they needed to expand. Opponents contended that SEC regulations exist to provide oversight and transparency which prevent people from defrauding investors.



The JOBS Act establishes the category of "emerging growth companies," which the SEC defines as a company that is issuing stock with a total annual gross revenues of less than $1.07 billion during its most recently completed fiscal year. The JOBS Act lessens reporting and oversight requirements for these companies. Before the JOBS Act, in most cases, only accredited investors could invest in startups.


   Special Considerations  

The JOBS Act allows retail investors to invest in startups in two ways. First, it lets startups raise up to $1 million via crowdfunding, which is a form of investing by many small investors pooling their resources. This is different than crowdfunding websites such as Kickstarter, where people donate money and do not receive equity for their contributions.



Secondly, it greatly expands a category under a rule called "Regulation A" (or Reg A), which allows companies to offer stock without going through the process of registering with the SEC. Under the JOBS Act, the expanded Reg A, often called Reg A+, allows companies to offer up to $50 million in stock each year without needing to meet normal registration requirements. Retail investors can invest up to certain amounts using both of these methods, allowing them access to relatively risky venture-capital investments.


   History of the JOBS Act  

The purpose of the jobs act is to make it easier for startups and small businesses to access capital, primarily because small business activity had decreased during and after the financial crisis when the law was passed. With the ability to access financing, the JOBS Act allows businesses to grow and hire more workers, which helped put Americans back to work after the financial crisis.



The JOBS Act rolled back financial regulation in relation to small businesses and Obama signed the law in 2012. Most small businesses start and grow in the early stages either through personal savings, money from family and friends, or money from small banks. Because of the financial crisis, many families had little savings and many of the small community banks had disappeared.



The JOBS Act seeks to make access to capital more democratized with greater efficiency by providing new and easy means to access funding. The internet has allowed small banks to reach investors in a way that only large corporations could before. Combined with the advent of technology, the JOBS Act removed or adjusted the regulation that made it difficult for smaller businesses to access capital.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the JOBS ACT  

The primary advantage of the JOBS Act is that it removed regulatory hurdles for entrepreneurs, allowing them to access capital in a more efficient manner and more readily. The JOBS Act removed the solicitation ban, allowing entrepreneurs to market their businesses and utilize the internet to reach thousands of potential investors without geographical limitations. The same benefit applies to investors as well. It allows investors to reach more potential investments without geographical restrictions.



The primary disadvantage comes from the advantage: less regulation. With less regulation and decreased requirements for disclosures, the potential for fraud is greatly increased for investors. This includes purposeful fraud as well as accidental fraud, which means less experienced business owners may inaccurately describe their business opportunities.





Pros 

Decreased regulation
Easier access to potential investors
No geographical constraints for entrepreneurs and investors
Increased options for investors
More accessible and efficient means of accessing capital for entrepreneurs



Cons

Decreased regulation
Potential for fraud







Who Wrote the JOBS Act?
The House Majority Leader at the time, Eric Cantor, introduced the JOBS Act to Congress. The ACT was approved with bipartisan support.




What Does the JOBS Act Do for Companies?
The JOBS Act allows companies to access funding in ways that were not allowed before due to securities regulations. It reduced regulation, including oversight and reporting, removed certain barriers, and allowed for new ways of accessing capital. It makes it easier for entrepreneurs to start businesses or grow their current businesses.




Is Crowdfunding Regulated by the SEC?
Yes, crowdfunding is regulated by the SEC. The SEC requires that all transactions take place through an SEC-registered intermediary, limiting the amount a company can raise in a year to $5 million through crowdfunding, limiting the amount of non-accredited investors, and requiring certain disclosures of information.




What Is a Reg CF Offering?
Reg CF is part of the JOBS Act that allows private companies to raise up to $5 million from any American. Prior to the passing of the Act, private companies could only raise capital from accredited investors.


   The Bottom Line  

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act was passed by President Obama in 2012 with the goal of revitalizing the small business sector in the United States after the financial crisis. The Act would do this by allowing entrepreneurs easier access to capital to start businesses or to grow them by removing regulations surrounding how small businesses can access capital. With small businesses growing, this would result in them hiring more workers, putting Americans back to work after the crisis.
What Is a Junior Accountant?  

A junior accountant maintains and compiles financial reports and statements in compliance with government regulations and requirements. The junior accountant may analyze balance sheets, manage general ledger accounts, update financial statements, maintain accounts receivable and accounts payable, pay monthly payroll, and prepare financial reports. Accountants, auditors, and junior auditors typically work full-time. Overtime hours may be required during tax season or at the end of the fiscal year.





Key Takeaways

A junior accountant is an entry-level position in an accounting firm or department.A junior accountant's duties include posting journal entries, updating financial statements, maintaining accounts receivable and accounts payable, paying monthly payroll, and preparing financial reports.A junior accountant is supervised by a senior accountant or accounting manager.A bachelor's degree in accounting is typically a prerequisite, along with a high level of attention to detail.


   Understanding Junior Accountant  

The duties and future career prospects for a junior accountant depend on the situation and the abilities of the candidate. A junior accountant holds an entry-level position in the accounting department of an accounting or auditing firm or the government. Junior accountants have an interest in finance. Accountants learn the ins and outs of the industry in which they work because they are privy to all the expenses, revenues, and investments that are involved in a business entity. The median pay for a qualified accountant in 2020 was $73,560, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).﻿﻿


  The Role of a Junior Accountant  

The duties and responsibilities of a junior accountant would vary within the organization but would include accounting for all business transactions with journal entries, updating financial statements, preparing monthly financial reports, calculating payroll taxes, and auditing and maintaining accounts receivable and accounts payable. All of this would be performed under the supervision of the manager, as the junior accountant learns the business of accounting and the intricacies of different client situations.


   Requirements for a Junior Accountant  

A bachelor's degree in accounting is a prerequisite for this position, along with a high level of attention to detail. Other desirable attributes include mathematical aptitude, analytical ability, an ability to keep documents well organized, and an interest in finance. A junior accountant uses accounting software, so the ability to use and learn new computer systems is essential.


   The Outlook for a Junior Accountant  

The junior accountant position would suit those who enjoy mathematics and are interested in finance. Junior accountants have above-average earnings potential and access to wide-ranging clientèle. The accounting profession is likely to see sustained demand because corporations and small businesses require accounting services on an ongoing basis. If a junior accountant wishes to climb the career ladder, they could become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a Certified Management Accountant (CMA), or a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) by undertaking and passing the exam series.



Growth in the accounting profession is expected to be average at around 4% per year from 2019-2029, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.﻿﻿ Employment growth in the accounting field is linked to the overall economy. In a growing economy, more accountants are required.
What Is a Junior Capital Pool (JCP)?  

A junior capital pool (JCP) is a corporate capital structure that allows early-stage startups to sell shares in the company before actually establishing a line of business. This form of company financing is a Canadian invention and is permitted only in Canada.



The JCP may also be known as a capital pool company (CPC).



The JPC is, essentially, a shell corporation with no assets other than cash, which has not yet begun business operations. Their issues might be described as stock options rather than stock shares, since their value remains to be determined at a future date.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A junior capital pool, or JCP, is a new corporate entity that is permitted to raise money by issuing shares before it begins operations.The JCP is permitted only in Canada and trades only on the Toronto Stock Exchange.This type of corporate structure was a response to a 1980s boom in the oil and gas exploration industry.


   Understanding a Junior Capital Pool (JCP)  

This novel form of start-up financing was invented in Alberta, Canada, in the late 1980s, largely to address the needs of startups in the province's burgeoning oil & gas industry.



Over time, it has morphed into a more widely used corporate structure known as the capital pool company (CPC). The capital pool company has become an alternative way for newly-created private companies to raise money and go public.



The system was created by and is regulated by the Canada-based TMX Group. Companies with this structure also trade on the TSX Exchange.



A capital pool company is a company with experienced directors and some capital, but without current commercial operations at the time of the initial public offering (IPO). The directors of the CPC often focus on acquiring an emerging company. After the completion of the acquisition, that emerging company has access to the capital and the listing prepared by the CPC.



The purpose of such a capital structure was to provide an easy way for early-stage companies to raise capital. With a minimum investment from founders of $100,000, the junior capital pool company could get a listing and exposure to public markets, providing them with the additional money needed to launch.



Since its inception, the capital pool program has listed about 2,600 capital pool companies, which have raised some $75 billion Canadian.﻿﻿


   Example of a Junior Capital Pool (JCP)  

Say you are founding a company that has acquired a newly discovered reserve of oil and intends to explore and extract oil from it. Your company has not yet brought a single barrel of oil to the market or even started drilling.



You structure the company as a JPC, so you and your fellow founders put up some of your own money into the venture. You then list the company as a publicly-traded entity on the Canadian exchange.



Note that this venture is still in the planning phases. Because there is no proven revenue stream yet, capital pool companies are usually considered very risky investments.
What Is a Junior Company?  

A junior company is a small company that is developing or seeking to develop a natural resource deposit or field. A junior company is like a startup in that it is either looking for funding to help it grow or it is looking for a much larger company to buy it out.





Key Takeaways

A junior company is a new company that is looking to develop a natural resource deposit or field.Junior companies seek to grow by obtaining funding or seek to be bought out by a larger company.Most junior companies are small-cap companies with a market capitalization of $500 million or below.Junior companies are typically involved with venture capital companies that aim to develop the junior company into a profitable one.The risks associated with junior companies are high because they are new in the market and have not necessarily proven their asset base.


   Understanding a Junior Company  

Junior companies are typically small-cap, with a low market capitalization (usually under $500 million) and have thin daily trading volumes of 700,000 and under. They are most likely found in commodity exploration, such as oil, minerals, and natural gas. Junior companies are believed to be interesting businesses for those who can afford to take the risks associated with them.



The costs involved in starting a junior company have grown significantly, but so has the reward for being successful.



The first thing many juniors will do is to acquire properties they believe have a big probability of resource deposits. The company will then conduct a resource study. Once that has been completed, it will either provide the results to shareholders or to the public to prove there are assets available.



If the study provides positive results, the junior company will raise capital to go ahead with exploration, or partner up with a bigger company to cut down on costs. In some cases, it may also attempt to be bought out by a larger company.


   Characteristics of a Junior Company  

A lot of junior companies are venture capital recipients that are looking for financing for their own operations. For example, a junior gold mining company may not own its mining operation. Instead, it may look to secure capital in order to undertake this part of the business. 



Junior companies also come with a lot of risks. If the company undertakes exploration and cannot find any resources before its debt is due, it will suffer financially and may have to declare bankruptcy.



Juniors are also sensitive to commodity prices, meaning their share prices fall directly in line with the commodity with which they are associated. So the share prices for gold juniors will be affected by the price of gold, just like oil and gas juniors will be affected by energy prices.



Juniors will have management teams that provide some expertise in the field of exploration and can navigate any local governmental and environmental regulations. The companies will also have highly trained personnel on staff, including engineers and geophysicists, so when the properties show promise, they can help bring the resources into production. 


   Investing in a Junior Company  

Investing in junior companies often comes with more risk than companies that are bigger and more established. This is because juniors may still be exploring and, at times, may not find any resources at all. Investors who are interested in smaller, up-and-coming companies like these should remember to diversify in order to minimize their risk and get the maximum return on their investments. 



A greater degree of interest in juniors will typically come from individual investors because they usually invest based on emotions. Institutional investors, such as mutual funds or hedge funds, will normally invest in senior companies with a greater track record. 



The best places to find juniors are the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and the TSX Venture Exchange (TSXV). Both have hundreds of mining companies listed.


   Real World Example  

Nexus Gold, headquartered in Vancouver, Canada, is one example of a junior mining company. As of Sept. 2, 2020, the company had a market cap of $14.5 million, with a daily trading volume of about 253,000, putting it firmly within the small-cap parameter. The company is listed as an exploration and development company with operations in West Africa and Canada.



Currently, Nexus has six projects in Canada and five projects in West Africa, so it is further along the development line than completely new junior companies, though these projects have only shown historical samples or prospective new samples, meaning that the mines are not in full development as yet.
What Is Junior Debt?  

Junior debt refers to bonds or other forms of debt issued with a lower priority for repayment than other, more senior debt claims in the case of default. Because of this, junior debt tends to be riskier for investors and thus carries higher interest rates than more senior debt from the same issuer.



Junior debt is synonymous with subordinated debt, and it may refer more generally to any second tier of debt paid immediately following the repayment of senior debt. Junior debt has a somewhat smaller probability of being paid back in default since all higher-ranking debt will be given priority.





Key Takeaways

Junior debt refers to bonds or other debts that have been issued with lower priority than senior debt.Also known as subordinated debt, junior debt will only be repaid in the event of default or bankruptcy after more senior debts have been first repaid in full.Unlike senior debt, junior debt is not typically backed by any type of collateral.As a result of these attributes, junior debt tends to be riskier and carry higher interest rates than senior debt.


   Understanding Junior Debt  

Generally, the corporate debt market is less regulated than the equity market. Thus, corporations have more flexibility obtaining capital through debt. A corporation may work with a bank to obtain a loan. They may also work with an underwriter who leads a loan syndicate with multiple investors investing in a loan deal. A corporation may also issue bonds with varying repayment terms.



"Junior debt" is a classification that is important for fixed income investors to understand when understanding the various bond issuances of a firm. Repayment priorities for a business are a part of the firm’s capital structuring, and these distinctions will matter if an issuer experiences a credit event such as a default. Companies can issue a wide variety of securities to raise capital from investors, and the structuring of these products is typically done by an underwriter. The priority of repayment will generally follow the order of senior debtholders followed by junior debtholders, preferred shareholders, and finally common stockholders.



Different from equity capital, institutional debt is typically issued in the primary market involving direct interaction between corporations and investors. Following primary market issuance, loans and bonds can then be traded over secondary markets with trades facilitated through various trading groups. In the secondary market, senior debt continues to carry less risk than subordinated debt.


   Debt Repayment Terms  

An important repayment term for all types of credit is their repayment seniority. Loans and bonds can be issued as senior debt or subordinated debt. Senior debt is repaid first if the borrower encounters a default or liquidation. It is usually secured debt with collateral; however, it can also be unsecured with specific provisions for repayment seniority. Subordinated debt follows senior debt and has its own repayment terms.



Generally, senior debt requires lower interest payments and bond coupons since it has a lower risk. With subordinated debt, investors are willing to take on the higher risk of lower seniority payments in default by being compensated with higher rates of interest. Generally, junior debt and subordinated debt is unsecured debt that is not backed by collateral.


   Subordinated Debt in Tranches  

In some situations, corporations may issue junior debt bonds. Junior debt can also be common in structured products where investors have the option to invest in varying bond tranches as part of bond issuance. Repayment terms are often a key factor that can influence coupon rates on a bond. The junior debt repayment procedures in the case of default will be clearly delineated by the underwriter in the terms disclosing the investment details of a bond investment so that investors have a clear understanding of the priority the bonds are given in the case of default.



For instance, in many structured products, the z-tranche is the slice of the security that is repaid only after all other tranches have received repayment in full.
What Is Junior Equity?  

Junior equity is stock issued by a company that ranks at the bottom of the priority ladder in terms of ownership rights. Its owners are the last in line to receive certain payouts, such as dividends or reimbursements in cases of bankruptcy.



Common stock is a type of junior equity. It is considered subordinate, or junior, to preferred stock.





Key Takeaways

Common stock is a type of junior equity.Its junior status means that its owners are last in line to be repaid in the event of a bankruptcy filing by the company that issued it.Bondholders, preferred stock shareholders, and other debtholders collect before junior equity holders.Junior equity does have advantages: Common shares tend to appreciate more in price and they carry voting rights.


   How Junior Equity Works  

Equity, a form of ownership often represented by shares of stock, represents the amount of money that would be returned to shareholders if all of the company’s assets were liquidated and its debts were paid off.



Not all shareholders have equal rights, though. There is a pecking order determining who can claim company assets first—and owners of junior, aka subordinate, equity sit at the bottom of it.



That means that in the event of a bankruptcy, holders of junior equity may get no compensation. These owners of common stock have rights to a company's assets only after bondholders, preferred shareholders, and other debtholders are paid in full.






The pay-out structure of a company in bankruptcy is governed by the Absolute Priority Rule, which states that in liquidation certain creditors must be satisfied in full before any other creditors receive any payments.



Junior equity also takes a back seat to preferred stock when it comes to income distribution. Owners of preferred stock shares receive an agreed-upon dividend at regular intervals, making these distributions similar to bonds' coupon payments.



Owners of common stock may or may not receive a dividend, and its amount fluctuates depending on the company's earnings. Compensating preferred stockholders takes priority.


   Example of Junior Equity  

Larry’s Lemonade, a publicly-traded company, needs money to buy more lemons in order to fulfill a major purchase order. Its management decides to issue bonds to raise money.



Business at Larry’s Lemonade then takes a turn for the worst, forcing it to shut down its operation and declare bankruptcy. It owes money to its employees and its suppliers as well as its bondholders and shareholders.



Everyone with a stake in the company is eager to collect what they're owed. All of the company's assets must be sold to raise money, including any leftover supplies, equipment, warehouses, and offices.



Once the business has been liquidated its assets can be distributed. The first priority goes to the bondholders, those who lent Larry's Lemonade capital to buy more lemons, followed by its other debtors.



Only if and when all of those groups have been paid in full do the junior equity holders of common stock have an opportunity to receive any remaining assets. They are very unlikely to get anything back for their investment.






The opposite of junior equity is known as senior equity or senior security.


   Advantages of Junior Equity  

While the potential risks are greater in junior equity, the potential rewards are greater as well.



Common stock has historically outperformed bonds and preferred shares. Preferred shares typically do not reflect appreciation to the same degree as common stock. Their prices tend to stay around their initial issue price, behaving more like bonds than common stock shares. 



When a company thrives, junior equity is generally the best type of stock to hold over the long term.



Unlike preferred stock, owning common stock also gives shareholders voting rights—meaning they can have a voice, albeit a very quiet one, in how the business is run. 


   Special Considerations  

A counterpart to junior equity in the debt world is junior debt. Also known as subordinated debt, it refers to bonds, loans, or other obligations issued with a lower priority for repayment than other, more senior debt claims in the case of the issuer's default. As a result, junior debt tends to be riskier for investors, and thus pays higher interest rates than more senior debt from the same issuer.
What Is a Junior Mortgage?  

A junior mortgage is a mortgage that is subordinate to a first or prior (senior) mortgage. A junior mortgage often refers to a second mortgage, but it could also be a third or fourth mortgage (e.g. home equity loans or lines of credit (HELOCs)). In the case of a foreclosure, the senior (first) mortgage will be paid down first.





Key Takeaways

A junior mortgage is a home loan made in addition to the property's primary mortgage.Home equity loans and HELOCs are often used as second mortgages.Junior mortgages often carry higher interest rates and lower loan amounts, and may be subject to additional restrictions and limitations.Homeowners may seek a junior mortgage to finance large purchases like a home remodel, college tuition, or a new vehicle.


   Understanding Junior Mortgage  

A junior mortgage is a subordinate mortgage made while an original mortgage is still in effect. In the event of default, the original mortgage would receive all proceeds from the liquidation of the property until it is all paid off. Since junior mortgages would receive repayments only when the first mortgage has been paid off, the interest rate charged for a junior mortgage tends to be higher and the amount borrowed will be lower than that of the first mortgage.



Common uses of junior mortgages include piggy-back mortgages (80-10-10 mortgages) and home equity loans. Piggy-back mortgages provide a way for borrowers with less than a 20% down payment to avoid costly private mortgage insurance. Home equity loans are frequently used to extract equity for a home to pay down other debts or make additional purchases. Every borrowing scenario should be carefully and thoroughly analyzed.


   Restrictions and Limits on Pursuing Junior Mortgages  

A junior mortgage might not be permitted by the holder of the initial mortgage. If there are terms in a mortgage that allow for junior mortgages to be instituted, there may be requirements the borrower must meet before doing so. For example, a certain amount of the senior mortgage may need to be paid off before a junior mortgage can be taken out. The lender might also restrict the number of junior mortgages the borrower can take on.



Increased risk of default is often associated with junior mortgages. This has led to lenders charging higher interest rates for junior mortgages compared with senior mortgages. The introduction of more debt through a junior mortgage could mean the borrower owes more money on their house than it is valued on the market.



If the borrower is not able to keep up with their payments and the house lapses into foreclosure, the lender who provided the junior mortgage may be at risk for not recouping their funds. For example, the payout to the holder of a senior mortgage could expend all or most of the assets. That would mean the lender for the junior mortgage could go unpaid.


   Other Considerations  

Borrowers might seek junior mortgages in order to pay off credit card debt or to cover the purchase of a car. For instance, a borrower might pursue a junior mortgage with a 15-year term to have the funds to pay off a car loan that has a five-year term. As new debt is introduced through junior mortgages, it is possible that the borrower will become unable to repay their mounting obligations. Since the home serves as collateral, even if they pay off senior mortgages, borrowers could face foreclosure on junior mortgages that lapse into default.
What Is a Junior Security?  

The term junior security refers to a security with a lower priority than others. Put simply, junior security is subordinate to any other type of security. This means that junior security holders get paid only after those who own senior securities if and when a company goes bankrupt or is liquidated. As such, there's a very good chance that some (or even all) of the junior securities to which a company owes money may not be repaid after any leftover cash is distributed.





Key Takeaways

Junior securities have a lower priority of claim on assets or income compared to senior securities.Common shares are forms of junior securities whereas bonds are deemed senior securities.After senior securities are paid, any leftover cash is divided among junior security holders. In normal circumstances, junior security holders enjoy a greater reward than other, more senior issues. Junior security holders carry greater risk because they may either receive some or none of their investment back in the case of default. 


   Understanding Junior Securities  

When a company declares bankruptcy or is liquidated, all stakeholders in the company want to be repaid as much of their investment as possible. But there are clear rules in place that determine the seniority of different securities. This means that the order in which different types of stakeholders are repaid is predetermined, where some are senior securities and others junior.



Junior securities include those such as common stock. As noted earlier, these securities fall lower on the priority scale when it comes to repayment. Senior securities end up at the top of the list and are considered the safest types of securities. This allows holders of these securities to be paid before any others. The most common types of senior securities are generally bonds, debentures, bank loans, and preferred shares.



Repayment depends on the company's capital structure. In bankruptcy cases secured and unsecured creditors are paid from the company's assets before stockholders. Bondholders and lenders of secured debt are typically repaid first. Cash is divided between senior securities before any junior holders are paid out. In certain cases, some common shares may get some money back, while others may not be repaid at all.



There's a very good reason why some securities are prioritized over others: Not all securities have the same risk-reward profile. For instance, corporate bondholders may expect to receive an interest rate of 3.5% in today’s market, whereas shareholders can theoretically obtain unlimited upside potential and dividend payments. Bondholders must be compensated in the form of lower risk because of the modest returns associated with corporate bonds. As such, they are given priority over shareholders if the issuing company ever defaults.






The method of ordering asset repayment in the event of bankruptcy is known as the principle of Absolute Priority. Based on Section 1129(b)(2) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, it is sometimes referred to as the principle of liquidation preference.


   Example of a Junior Security  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how junior securities work. Let's say you own a manufacturing company called XYZ Industries. To launch your company, you raised $1 million from shareholders and took out a $500,000 mortgage to buy real estate for your factory. You then secured a $500,000 line of credit from the bank, to fund your working capital needs.



You see that you have maxed out your line of credit and have an outstanding balance of $350,000 on your mortgage after looking at your balance sheet. After liquidating all of your equipment and other assets, you raise a total of $900,000.



You need to pay out your senior creditors first, namely the bank that lent you the mortgage and the line of credit. Of the $900,000 you raised from selling your assets, $350,000 pays off the mortgage and $500,000 goes to the line of credit. The remaining $50,000 is distributed to your investors, who are last in line because they invested in common shares, which are junior security.



Although this represents a very bitter 95% loss for your shareholders, remember that if your business had been successful, there is no upper limit to the return on investment (ROI) they could have enjoyed. That's the risk they assumed when they invested in your business.
What Is a Junk Bond?  

Junk bonds are bonds that carry a higher risk of default than most bonds issued by corporations and governments. A bond is a debt or promise to pay investors interest payments along with the return of invested principal in exchange for buying the bond. Junk bonds represent bonds issued by companies that are financially struggling and have a high risk of defaulting or not paying their interest payments or repaying the principal to investors.



Junk bonds are also called high-yield bonds since the higher yield is needed to help offset any risk of default.





Key Takeaways

A junk bond is debt that has been given a low credit rating by a ratings agency, below investment grade.As a result, these bonds are riskier since chances that the issuer will default or experience a credit event are higher.Because of the higher risk, investors are compensated with higher interest rates, which is why junk bonds are also called high-yield bonds.


   Junk Bonds Explained  

From a technical viewpoint, a high-yield, or "junk" bond is very similar to regular corporate bonds. Both represent debt issued by a firm with the promise to pay interest and to return the principal at maturity. Junk bonds differ because of their issuers' poorer credit quality.



Bonds are fixed-income debt instruments that corporations and governments issue to investors to raise capital. When investors buy bonds, they're effectively loaning money to the issuer who promises to repay the money on a specific date called the maturity date. At maturity, the investor is repaid the principal amount invested. Most bonds pay investors an annual interest rate during the life of the bond, called a coupon rate.



For example, a bond that has a 5% annual coupon rate means that an investor who purchases the bond earns 5% per year. So, a bond with a $1,000 face—or par—value will receive 5% x $1,000 which comes to $50 each year until the bond matures.


   Higher Risk Equates to Higher Yield  

A bond that has a high risk of the underlying company defaulting is called a junk bond. Companies that issue junk bonds are typically start-ups or companies that are struggling financially. Junk bonds carry risk since investors are unsure whether they'll be repaid their principal and earn regular interest payments. As a result, junk bonds pay a higher yield than their safer counterparts to help compensate investors for the added level of risk. Companies are willing to pay the high yield because they need to attract investors to fund their operations.





Pros

Junk bonds return higher yields than most other fixed-income debt securities.
Junk bonds have the potential of significant price increases should the company's financial situation improve.
Junk bonds serve as a risk indicator of when investors are willing to take on risk or avoid risk in the market.



Cons

Junk bonds have a higher risk of default than most bonds with better credit ratings.
Junk bond prices can exhibit volatility due to uncertainty surrounding the issuer's financial performance.
Active junk bond markets can indicate an overbought market meaning investors are too complacent with risk and may lead to market downturns.





   Junk Bonds as a Market Indicator  

Some investors buy junk bonds to profit from potential price increases as the financial security of the underlying company improves, and not necessarily for the return of interest income. Also, investors that predict bond prices to rise are betting there will be increased buying interest for high-yield bonds—even these lower rated ones—due to a change in market risk sentiment. For example, if investors believe economic conditions are improving in the U.S. or abroad, they might purchase junk bonds of companies that will show improvement along with the economy.



As a result, increased buying interest of junk bonds serves as a market-risk indicator for some investors. If investors are buying junk bonds, market participants are willing to take on more risk due to a perceived improving economy. Conversely, if junk bonds are selling off with prices falling, it usually means that investors are more risk averse and are opting for more secure and stable investments.



Although a surge in junk bond investing usually translates to increased optimism in the market, it could also point to too much optimism in the market.



It's important to note that junk bonds have much larger price swings than bonds of higher quality. Investors looking to purchase junk bonds can either buy the bonds individually through a broker or invest in a junk bond fund managed by a professional portfolio manager.


   Improving Financials Affect Junk Bonds  

If the underlying company performs well financially, its bonds will have improved credit ratings and usually attract buying interest from investors. As a result, the bond's price rises as investors flood in, willing to pay for the financially viable issuer. Conversely, companies that are performing poorly will likely have low or lowered credit ratings. These falling opinions might cause buyers to back off. Companies with poor credit ratings typically offer high yields to attract investors and to compensate them for the added level of risk.



The result is bonds issued by companies with positive credit ratings usually pay lower interest rates on their debt instruments as compared to companies with poor credit ratings. Many bond investors monitor the credit ratings of bonds.


   Credit Ratings and Junk Bonds  

Although junk bonds are considered risky investments, investors can monitor a bond's level of risk by reviewing the bond's credit rating. A credit rating is an assessment of the creditworthiness of an issuer and its outstanding debt in the form of bonds. The company's credit rating, and ultimately the bond's credit rating, impact the market price of a bond and its offering interest rate.



Credit-rating agencies measure the creditworthiness of all corporate and government bonds, giving investors insight into the risks involved in the debt securities. Credit rating agencies assign letter grades for their view of the issue.



For example, Standard & Poor’s has a credit rating scale ranging from AAA—excellent—to lower ratings of C and D. Any bond that carries a rating lower than BB is said to be of speculative-grade or a junk bond. This should be a red flag to risk-averse investors. The various letter grades from credit agencies represent the financial viability of the company and the likelihood that the contract terms of the bond terms will be honored.


  Investment Grade  

Bonds with a rating of investment-grade come from corporations that have a high probability of paying the regular coupons and returning the principal to investors. For example, Standard & Poor's ratings include:



AAA—excellentAA—very goodA—goodBBB—adequate


  "Junk" (Speculative)  

As mentioned earlier, once a bond's rating drops into the double-B category, it falls into the junk bond territory. This area can be a scary place for investors who would be harmed by a total loss of their investment dollars in the case of a default.



Some speculative ratings include:



CCC—currently vulnerable to nonpaymentC—highly vulnerable to nonpaymentD—in default



Companies having bonds with these low credit ratings might have difficulty raising the capital needed to fund ongoing business operations. However, if a company manages to improve its financial performance and it's bond's credit rating is upgraded, a substantial appreciation in the bond’s price could happen. Conversely, if a company's financial situation deteriorates, the credit rating of the company and its bonds might be downgraded by credit rating agencies. It is crucial for investors in junk debt to fully investigate the underlying business and all financial documents available before buying.


   Bond Defaults  

If a bond misses a principal and interest payment, the bond is considered to be in default. Default is the failure to repay a debt including interest or principal on a loan or security. Junk bonds have a higher risk of default because of an uncertain revenue stream or a lack of sufficient collateral. The risk of bond defaults increases during economic downturns making these bottom level debts even riskier.


   Real World Example of a Junk Bond  

Tesla Inc. (TSLA) issued a fixed-rate bond with a maturity date of March 1, 2021 and a fixed semi-annual coupon rate of 1.25%. The debt received an S&P rating of B- in 2014 when it was issued. In October 2020, S&P upgraded its rating to BB- from B+. This is still in junk bond rating territory. A BB rating from S&P means the rating issue is less vulnerable to nonpayment, but still faces major uncertainties or exposure to adverse business or economic conditions.



Also, the current price of the Tesla offering is $577 as of Oct. 2020, much higher than its 2014 $100 face value, which represents the extra yield that investors are getting above the coupon payment. In other words, despite the BB- rating, the bond is trading at very large premium to its face value. This is because the bonds are convertible to equity. Thus, with shares of Tesla soaring 600% over the last twelve months ending Oct. 26, 2020, the bonds are proving to be valuable surrogates for the equity.
What Is a Junk Fee?  

Junk fees are a series of charges that a lender imposes at the closing of a mortgage. These charges are often unexpected by the borrower and not clearly explained by the lender. This surprise factor can lead to the impression that these fees are excessive and tacked on to other legitimate closing costs without good reason.



Other junk fees, often illegal, can be found in consumer financial products like auto loans and deposit accounts, and activities like student loan servicing. This article focuses on junk fees on mortgages.





Key Takeaways

Junk fees are additional charges imposed on a borrower at the closing stage of mortgage approval.The charges that comprise junk fees are considered excessive, not in good faith, and are almost always unexpected.Mortgage junk fees are included in the HUD-1 settlement statement, which lists all the fees that a borrower has to pay at closing.Borrowers always have the right to challenge junk fees and negotiate fairer costs, but often don't, resulting in lenders profiting from junk fees.In 2015, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) reformed the mortgage closing process, including a rule that no fee can rise more than 10% from the lending estimate.


   Understanding Junk Fees  

Junk fees in mortgages are a subset of the costs that appear on every HUD-1 settlement statement. Traditionally, that statement was a standalone form that federal law required a lender to provide a borrower at closing. It contained a detailed itemization of all costs associated with the loan.



Prior to closing, at the point when the parties agree to the terms of the loan and begin preparations for closing, the lender was required to provide a good faith estimate (GFE) of those costs. In 2015, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) consolidated these documents into one form, the Closing Disclosure.






Junk fees end up increasing the price of buying a home and may not be budgeted into the costs anticipated by a homebuyer. In many cases, this may financially stretch a buyer to a final cost that they are not comfortable with.



The costs listed on the HUD-1 range from boilerplate items such as home inspection and title search fees to more questionable costs that some consider junk. The latter group can contain items such as a document preparation fee, an application fee, a funding fee, a verification of employment fee, a sign-up fee, a translation fee, or an automated underwriting fee.



Junk fees can leave a bad taste regarding the homebuying process that should otherwise generally be a happy moment for most people. The borrower always has had the right to challenge these fees and negotiate them with the lender, but many lenders have found it profitable to assume that borrowers will fail to challenge all of these fees.



Critics of the mortgage industry also have argued that lenders don't adhere to the good faith requirement of the GFE and liberally add fees to the final HUD-1 statement that were never included in the GFE.


   Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Reforms on the Closing Process  

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (CFPB's) 2015 reforms to the closing process not only streamlined the paperwork associated with the closing process, they also established restrictions on fees and adjustments that could be made after the GFE was provided to the borrower.






The CFPB in a March 2023 report on unlawful financial services junk fees pointed out those found in mortgages can include excessive late fees, added costs for unnecessary property inspections for accounts in delinquency, and a failure to waive certain fees during loss-mitigation proceedings.



Part of the aim of these changes was to minimize lenders’ ability to add junk fees that borrowers might overlook. The major change that the CFPB instituted in this new set of rules is a limitation on the permissible inflation of charges listed on the lending estimate, the document formerly known as the GFE.



In general, no fee can be increased by more than 10% from the listing estimate to the final closing statement. If a major change in the circumstances of the loan has occurred, the lender must allow the borrower to review a new lending estimate as the restrictions stated by the CFPB may no longer apply.



Junk fees found in mortgages largely aren't illegal. Even with the efforts of the CFPB to protect borrowers against deceptive lending practices, the borrower bears the burden of carefully examining and questioning fees that appear unnecessary. It is always the lender's goal to close a mortgage so that they can earn revenue. Therefore, they are typically open to negotiation to ensure that the mortgage is finalized.




What Are Some Junk Fees Found in Mortgage Contracts?
These can include items such as a document preparation fee, an application fee, a funding fee, a verification of employment fee, a sign-up fee, a translation fee, or an automated underwriting fee.




Where Can I Find a List of Fees Attached to My Mortgage Before Closing?
Mortgage fees, some of which are considered unnecessary or predatory by consumer advocates, are part of the costs that appear on every HUD-1 settlement statement. In the past, that statement was a separate, itemized form that federal law required a lender to provide a borrower at closing. Since 2015, it's been consolidated into the Closing Disclosure.




Can I Negotiate To Remove Junk Fees in My Mortgage?
Yes, it's possible to ask a mortgage lender to remove or modify some of these fees during the closing process. Remember that, as the borrower, it's best to carefully review and question fees in the mortgage that appear unnecessary.


   The Bottom Line  

Junk fees in mortgages are multiple charges that a lender imposes at closing. They can be unexpected by the borrower and not clearly explained by the lender. This surprise factor can lead to the buyer feeling that the fees are excessive and tacked on to other legitimate closing costs without good reason. Other types of junk fees, often illegal, can be found and questioned by consumers when taking out auto loans, deposit accounts, or student loan servicing.
What Is a Juris Doctor (JD)?  

The American law degree, called a Juris Doctor (JD), is a three-year professional degree. Until the latter half of the 20th century, the degree was called a Bachelor of Laws (LLB). However, due to the length of study required in the United States to attain a law degree, the name was changed to reflect its status as a professional degree. A J.D. degree confers recognition that the holder has a professional degree in law.





Key Takeaways

The American law degree, called a Juris Doctor (JD), is a three-year professional degree.Law school applicants must already have a bachelor's degree.It typically takes three years to complete the J.D. degree, after which the graduate must pass the bar exam to practice law.Drexel, Rutgers, Columbia, and Fordham are among the schools that offer a two-year J.D. degree option.


   Understanding Juris Doctor (JD)  

Some schools offer a joint J.D. and MBA degree so that students can complete both degrees in less time than it would take to complete each separately. Other combined graduate degrees include public policy, medicine, and bioengineering.



Law school applicants must already have a bachelor's degree. It typically takes three years to complete the J.D. degree, after which the graduate must pass the bar exam to practice law. Each state and the District of Columbia has its own bar exam.


   History of the JD Degree  

The first lawyers trained in the United States underwent an apprenticeship and training with a lawyer who served as a mentor. Required studies, interpretation of the law, and practical experience varied sharply. The first formal law degree granted in the country was a Bachelor of Law from the College of William and Mary in 1793. Harvard University changed the name of the degree to the Latin "Legum Baccalaureus," known as the LL.B., and led the 19th-century movement for a scientific study of law. The LL.B. remains the standard degree in most of the Commonwealth of Nations.



The faculty of Harvard Law School first suggested changing the degree from LL.B. to J.D. in 1902 to reflect the professional nature of the degree. In 1903, the University of Chicago, which was one of only five law schools that required students to have a bachelor's degree before enrollment, granted the first J.D. degree. Many law schools offered both an LL.B. to students who entered without a bachelor's degree and a J.D. to students entering with a bachelor's degree.



By the early 1960s, most students entered law school with a bachelor's degree. In 1965, the American Bar Association recommended the standard law degree be the J.D., and that decree took effect by the end of the decade.


   Requirements for a JD Degree  

In order to get into law school, you must have an undergraduate degree, have passed the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), request your official transcripts from your undergraduate institution(s), obtain letters of recommendation, and write a personal statement.


  Complete a Bachelor's Degree  

While many graduate programs require the completion of certain prerequisite courses, there are no such requirements for prospective law students. However, you must have earned (or be on track to earn) an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution. Your undergraduate grade point average (GPA) is a key indicator law schools consider when evaluating applicants.


  Take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT)  

You'll also need to take the LSAT. The basic fee for the LSAT during the 2023-2024 academic year is $222 plus $200 for Credential Assembly Service (CAS) and an additional $45 fee for each CAS report sent to the law schools you apply to. Most people end up paying $500 or more in total LSAT fees.



It is generally recommended that you spend at least three months studying for the exam, although many people dedicate up to a year studying for the exam. There are many resources online to help you study for the LSAT, including free resources. Organized prep courses that guide you through the different components of the LSAT can be quite expensive. Some individuals opt to hire a private tutor to help them prepare for the LSAT.


  Request Your Official Transcripts  

Law schools require official transcripts from all undergraduate, graduate, and certificate programs. Each copy of your official transcript can cost between $10 and $20, so depending on how many schools you apply to, this amount can add up. The process of requesting your transcript and then getting them sent to the appropriate institution can take several days, so make sure that you give yourself adequate time.


  Write a Personal Statement  

A personal statement is your opportunity to reveal your personality to the admissions committee. It's a good idea if your personal statement covers your career goals and academic achievements, although there are many different approaches. Some schools may have specific prompts they want you to address in your personal statement.


  Obtain Letters of Recommendation  

Most law schools will require at least one letter of recommendation. Your letters of recommendation can be from undergraduate professors or former employers that can speak to various elements of your success.






Tuition varies dramatically between law schools. In 2023, top law schools will cost nearly $70,000, while there are plenty of laws schools that charge less than $20,000.


   Two-Year JD Degrees  

Job prospects for lawyers fell sharply following the 2008 financial market collapse, and law school enrollment dropped by 24% from 2010 to 2013. With tuition continuing to rise, some schools have looked at shortening the program. Drexel, Rutgers, Columbia, and Fordham are among the schools that offer a two-year J.D. option or allow students to start their first year of law school after completing the third year of college.


   Job Prospects for JD Degrees  

According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the employment outlook for lawyers is promising with a projected 8 percent growth from 2022 to 2032. This growth rate exceeds the average for all occupations. This growth is expected to result in approximately 39,100 job openings annually during this decade.



The demand for legal services remains high, driven by the legal needs of individuals, businesses, and government entities. However, increasing price competition may lead law firms to reconsider staffing and cost-saving measures.


   Job Responsibilities for JD Holders  

A juris doctor graduate performs a wide range of legal tasks and responsibilities which can vary depending on their specialization and practice area. Here are some common things that a JD holder may do.



Legal Research: Lawyers use their research skills to investigate and understand the relevant laws, regulations, precedents, and case law that pertain to their clients' cases. They analyze legal sources to build strong arguments and support their clients' positions.Client Consultation: Lawyers meet with clients to discuss their legal issues and provide guidance. During these consultations, they assess the situation, offer legal advice, and discuss potential strategies or courses of action.Document Drafting: Lawyers are responsible for drafting various legal documents, including contracts, wills, deeds, legal briefs, pleadings, and agreements. These documents serve as formal records of legal transactions and arguments.Negotiation: Many lawyers engage in negotiation on behalf of their clients to reach mutually beneficial settlements and agreements. Negotiation skills are crucial in areas like family law, personal injury, and business transactions.Legal Analysis: Lawyers analyze complex legal issues, breaking them down to identify relevant laws, regulations, and case law. They assess the strengths and weaknesses of legal arguments and provide strategic advice to their clients.Mediation and Arbitration: Some lawyers specialize in alternative dispute resolution methods, like mediation and arbitration. They act as neutral parties to facilitate negotiations and resolve disputes without the need for a court trial.Compliance and Regulatory Work: Lawyers in areas such as corporate law, environmental law, and healthcare law ensure their clients comply with relevant laws and regulations. They help clients navigate complex regulatory frameworks and minimize legal risks.Specialized Work: Many lawyers specialize in specific practice areas, such as criminal defense, family law, intellectual property, tax law, immigration law, or corporate law. Specialization allows them to focus on particular legal issues and become experts in their chosen field.




What Is a JD Degree Equivalent to?
A J.D. degree, the American law degree, is a three-year professional degree. A J.D. is the minimum educational level for lawyers. The J.D. is considered a professional doctorate.




Is a JD a Lawyer?
To become a lawyer, you'll need to earn a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree. Once you graduate, you are entitled to take the bar exam and begin the practice of law. Obtaining a J.D. degree alone does not permit you to practice law. You must also pass the bar exam. Every state (and the District of Columbia) has its own bar exam.




Is a JD Higher Than a Masters?
While the J.D. is the only degree necessary to become a professor of law or to obtain a license to practice law, it is not a research degree. However, there are two types of research degrees available to individuals who are interested in studying law. These are the Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree, which typically requires a J.D. as a prerequisite before pursuing study, and the Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D./J.S.D.) degree, which typically requires a Master of Laws as a prerequisite.




Is Someone With a JD a Doctor?
It is not customary in the U.S. to address individuals that hold a J.D. as a "Doctor." In the late 1960s, the Canons of Professional Ethics issued a full ethics opinion regarding whether lawyers could ethically use the title "Doctor." The organization came down against this usage, with some exceptions. It is permissible for lawyers to use the title "Doctor" when dealing with countries where the use of "Doctor" by lawyers is standard practice. In addition, lawyers are allowed the use of the title in academia as long as the school of graduation considers the J.D. degree a doctorate degree.




How Many Years Is a JD Degree?
A traditional, full-time J.D. program lasts three years. There are some accelerated programs that allow individuals to complete their degrees in just two years or their undergraduate and JD degrees in a total of six years. Part-time J.D. programs usually take four years (or more) to finish.


   The Bottom Line  

A Juris Doctor is a professional graduate degree in law, typically required to become a practicing attorney in the United States and some other countries. It involves a comprehensive study of legal principles, statutes, and case law, equipping graduates with the knowledge and skills needed for a legal career.
What Is Jurisdiction Risk?  

Jurisdiction risk refers to the risks that can arise when operating in a foreign country or jurisdiction. These risks can arise simply by doing business, or else by lending or borrowing money in another country. Risks could also stem from legal, regulatory, or political factors that exist in different countries or regions.



In recent times, jurisdiction risk has focused increasingly on banks and financial institutions that are exposed to the volatility that some of the countries where they operate may be high-risk areas for money laundering and terrorism financing.





Key Takeaways

Jurisdiction risk is associated with operating in a foreign country or region.Jurisdiction risk can also be applied to times when an investor is exposed to unexpected changes in the laws.The U.S. government advises financial institutions to refer to updates from the Financial Action Task Force to identify potentially risky jurisdictions with weak measures to fight money laundering and terrorist financing.


   How Jurisdiction Risk Works  

Jurisdiction risk is any additional risk that arises from borrowing and lending or doing business in a foreign country. This risk can also refer to times when laws unexpectedly change in an area in which an investor has exposure. This type of jurisdiction risk can often lead to added price volatility. As a result, the added risk from volatility means investors will demand higher returns to offset the higher levels of risk being faced.






Political risk is a form of jurisdiction risk whereby an investment's returns could suffer as a result of political changes or instability in a country. Instability affecting investment returns could stem from a change in government, legislative bodies, other foreign policymakers, or military control.



Some of the risks associated with jurisdiction risk that banks, investors, and companies may face include legal complications, exchange rate risks, and even geopolitical risks.



As mentioned above, jurisdiction risk has recently become synonymous with countries where money laundering and terrorist activities are high. These activities are generally believed to be prevalent in countries that are designated as non-cooperative by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) or are identified by the U.S. Treasury as requiring special measures due to concerns about money laundering or corruption. Because of the punitive fines and penalties that can be levied against a financial institution that is involved—even inadvertently—in money laundering or financing terrorism, most organizations have specific processes to assess and mitigate jurisdiction risk.


   Special Considerations  

The FATF publishes two documents publicly three times a year and has done so since 2000. These reports identify areas of the world that the FATF declares have weak efforts to combat both money laundering and terrorist financing. These countries are called Non-Cooperative Countries or Territories (NCCTs).



As of June 2021, the FATF listed the following 22 countries as monitored jurisdictions: Albania, Barbados, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cayman Islands, Haiti, Jamaica, Malta, Mauritius, Morocco, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Senegal, South Sudan, Syria, Uganda, Yemen, and Zimbabwe. These NCCTs have deficiencies when it comes to placing anti-money laundering policies, as well as recognizing and fighting terrorist financing. But they have all committed to working with the FATF to address the deficiencies.



The FATF placed both the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (i.e., North Korea) and Iran on its call-to-action list. According to the FATF, North Korea still poses a great risk to international finance because of its lack of commitment and deficiencies in the noted areas. The FATF also indicated its concern over the country's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The organization noted Iran outlined its commitment to the FATF but has failed to enact its plan.


   Examples of Jurisdiction Risk  

Investors may experience jurisdiction risk in the form of foreign exchange risk (also known as currency risk). So, an international financial transaction may be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange. This can lead to a drop in the value of an investment. Foreign exchange risks can be mitigated by using hedging strategies including options and forward contracts.
What Is Just Compensation?  

Just compensation refers to the compensation individuals receive when their property gets seized by the government for public use. For example, when the national highway system was constructed in the 1950s, many homeowners had their property seized because the government needed the land to build the interstate highway system.



The just compensation remedy is provided by the Fifth Amendment's Takings Clause and is usually considered to be fair market value. However, what the government considers just compensation may not be regarded as "just" by the person whose property is seized. The government’s ability to take private property for public use is called eminent domain.





Key Takeaways

Just compensation is paid to property owners for the legal seizure of personal property or land.It is legally defined under the Takings Clause in the Fifth Amendment.Property owners are paid fair market value for their property but often determining what fair market value is can be difficult.There are different methods used to determine the value of a property and these include the market approach, income approach, and the cost approach.


   Understanding Just Compensation  

The idea behind just compensation is to repair the individual's estate, as if the property taking did not occur. This means paying the fair market value for the property.



However, individuals who lose their homes through an act of eminent domain may not consider the fair market value of the property to be just compensation for their loss, because it does not take into account the time, stress and cost of moving to a new property. Just compensation also fails to consider the loss of neighborhood social ties or the emotional connection the owner may have to the property. Fair value is often disputed in eminent domain cases.


   Factors of Just Compensation  

When determining just compensation, the following issues are considered:


  Fair Market Value of Land  

The price the property owner would receive if they were willing, not forced, to sell the land can be used to help determine the fair market value of the land. For example, if a landowner decided that they wanted a more significant piece of land and auctioned their existing property, the auction sale price would be considered fair market value.


  Fair Market Value of Land Improvement  

Land improvement refers to structures that improve the value of the seized land. Land improvement may include detached dwellings, barns, and separate garages. Intangible land improvements must also be taken into consideration. For instance, land near an area with natural resources may be considered a land improvement.


  Residue Damage  

If only a portion of the property is seized, residue damage refers to the damage on the remaining property due to the seizure. Residue damages may include the inability to use the best part of the land, any change or shape to the land and the land’s new proximity to public infrastructures, such as roads or utility equipment.


  Benefits  

Although less frequent, property owners may benefit from having their land seized. For example, if part of an owner’s land gets seized for a new service road that allows the property to be subdivided, that benefit can be used to offset the total compensation received.


   Methods for Property Valuation  

There are three generally accepted methods to value a property during an eminent domain case. These include the following:


  1. Market Approach  

The market approach is fairly straightforward in that the seized property is compared to recent property sales with similar characteristics. This method typically used to appraise residential properties.


  2. Income Approach  

The income approach is used best for properties that generate income. In these cases, the operating income of the property must be determined first. Then the income and the capitalization rate are used to arrive at the value.


  3. Cost Approach  

The cost approach takes into consideration a very specific structure on the property that is unique enough that the owner would need to recreate it on any future property. The value of the empty land would be taken into consideration, plus the cost of replacing the new structure and minus the depreciation of the current structure.
What Is Just in Case (JIC)?  

Just in case (JIC) is an inventory strategy where companies keep large inventories on hand. This type of inventory management strategy aims to minimize the probability that a product will sell out of stock. A company that uses this strategy typically has difficulty predicting consumer demand or experiences large surges in demand at unpredictable times. A company practicing this strategy essentially incurs higher inventory holding costs in return for a reduction in the number of sales lost due to sold-out inventory.





Key Takeaways:

Just in case (JIC) is an inventory strategy where companies keep large inventories on hand.This strategy minimizes the probability that a product will sell out of stock.A company that uses this strategy typically has difficulty predicting consumer demand or experiences large surges in demand at unpredictable times.The main disadvantage of this strategy is higher storage costs and wasted inventory if all stock does not sell.


   How Just in Case (JIC) Works  

The JIC inventory strategy differs from the more recent "just in time" (JIT) inventory strategy, where companies try to minimize inventory costs by producing the goods after the orders have come in.



The JIC strategy is more common in less industrialized countries where poor transportation infrastructure, natural disasters, poor quality control, and vulnerability to other suppliers' production problems are concerns. Such instabilities in the supply chain could lead to costly production inefficiencies. Therefore, a manufacturer may decide to pay for excess inventory to avoid production shutdowns.



For JIC, manufacturers reorder stock before it reaches the minimum level to continue to sell inventory while the suppliers are supplying the goods. The time from when the firm reorders the stock to the time the supplier provides the new stock is known as lead time. A JIC inventory system tries to keep a minimum level of inventory in case of emergencies. JIC is typically more costly than JIT because it can lead to waste if not all of the inventory is sold and there are additional storage costs due to the additional inventory.


  Why Choose the More Costly JIC Strategy?  

One major reason for practicing a more costly JIC system is the potential losses, such as permanent loss of major customers, loss of suppliers, and supply-chain collapse. If the JIT response contingencies are too slow or fail to keep production flowing, additional costs may be incurred. The additional costs due to maintaining extra storage and resources may be more cost effective than using a more efficient JIT system.



In a recent turn of events, some companies have started understocking their inventories on purpose. Makers of particular popular items for which buyers are not willing to accept substitutes can use this strategy.



The "just in case" strategy is used by companies that have trouble forecasting demand. With this strategy, the companies have enough production material on hand to meet unexpected spikes in demand. Higher storage costs are the main disadvantage of this strategy.


   Real World Examples of Just In Case (JIC)  

An example of JIC buyers are the military or hospitals. These types of organizations must maintain large inventories because waiting for JIT producers to ramp up production for needed supplies may result in lost lives and even wars.
What Is Just-in-Time (JIT)?  

The just-in-time (JIT) inventory system is a management strategy that aligns raw-material orders from suppliers directly with production schedules. Companies employ this inventory strategy to increase efficiency and decrease waste by receiving goods only as they need them for the production process, which reduces inventory costs. This method requires producers to forecast demand accurately.





Key Takeaways

The just-in-time (JIT) inventory system is a management strategy that minimizes inventory and increases efficiency.Just-in-time manufacturing is also known as the Toyota Production System (TPS) because the car manufacturer Toyota adopted the system in the 1970s.Kanban is a scheduling system often used in conjunction with JIT to avoid overcapacity of work in process.The success of the JIT production process relies on steady production, high-quality workmanship, no machine breakdowns, and reliable suppliers.The terms short-cycle manufacturing, used by Motorola, and continuous-flow manufacturing, used by IBM, are synonymous with the JIT system.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   How Does Just-in-Time Inventory Work?  

The just-in-time (JIT) inventory system minimizes inventory and increases efficiency. JIT production systems cut inventory costs because manufacturers receive materials and parts as needed for production and do not have to pay storage costs. Manufacturers are also not left with unwanted inventory if an order is canceled or not fulfilled.



One example of a JIT inventory system is a car manufacturer that operates with low inventory levels but heavily relies on its supply chain to deliver the parts it requires to build cars on an as-needed basis. Consequently, the manufacturer orders the parts required to assemble the vehicles only after an order is received.



For JIT manufacturing to succeed, companies must have steady production, high-quality workmanship, glitch-free plant machinery, and reliable suppliers.






The JIT inventory system contrasts with just-in-case strategies, where producers hold sufficient inventories to have enough products to absorb maximum market demand.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of JIT  

JIT inventory systems have several advantages over traditional models. Production runs are short, which means that manufacturers can quickly move from one product to another. Also, this method reduces costs by minimizing warehouse needs. Companies also spend less money on raw materials because they buy just enough resources to make the ordered products and no more.



The disadvantages of JIT inventory systems involve potential disruptions in the supply chain. If a raw-materials supplier has a breakdown and cannot deliver the goods promptly, this could conceivably stall the entire production line. A sudden unexpected order for goods may delay the delivery of finished products to end clients.


   Example of JIT  

Famous for its JIT inventory system, Toyota Motor Corporation orders parts only when it receives new car orders. Although the company installed this method in the 1970s, it took 20 years to perfect it.



Sadly, Toyota's JIT inventory system nearly caused the company to come to a halt in February 1997, after a fire at Japanese-owned automotive parts supplier Aisin decimated its capacity to produce P-valves for Toyota's vehicles. Because Aisin is the sole supplier of this part, its weeks-long shutdown caused Toyota to halt production for several days.



This caused a ripple effect, where other Toyota parts suppliers likewise had to temporarily shut down because the automaker had no need for their parts during that time period. Consequently, this fire cost Toyota 160 billion yen in revenue.






At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and its ripple effect on the economy and supply chain, things like paper surgical masks, toilet paper, and hand sanitizer experienced disruption. This was because inputs from overseas factories and warehouses could not be delivered in time to meet the surge in demand caused by the pandemic.


   Special Considerations  

Kanban is a Japanese scheduling system that's often used in conjunction with lean manufacturing and JIT. Taiichi Ohno, an industrial engineer at Toyota, developed kanban in an effort to improve manufacturing efficiency.



The Kanban system highlights problem areas by measuring lead and cycle times across the production process, which helps identify upper limits for work-in-process inventory to avoid overcapacity.




What Exactly Do You Mean by Just-in-Time?
A just-in-time (JIT) inventory system is a management strategy that has a company receive goods as close as possible to when they are actually needed. So, if a car assembly plant needs to install airbags, it does not keep a stock of airbags on its shelves but receives them as those cars come onto the assembly line.




Is Just-in-Time Manufacturing Risky?
A chief benefit of a JIT system is that it minimizes the need for a company to store large quantities of inventory, which improves efficiency and provides substantial cost savings. However, if there is a supply or demand shock, it can bring everything to a halt.For instance, at the beginning of the 2020's economic crisis, everything from ventilators to surgical masks experienced disruption as inputs from overseas could not reach their destinations in time to meet a surge in demand.




What Types of Companies Use JIT?
The JIT inventory system is popular with small businesses and major corporations alike because it enhances cash flow and reduces the capital needed to run the business. Retailers, restaurants, on-demand publishing, tech manufacturing, and automobile manufacturing are examples of industries that have benefited from just-in-time inventory.




Who Invented JIT Inventory Management?
JIT is attributed to the Japanese automaker Toyota Motor Corporation. Executives at Toyota in the 1970s reasoned that the company could adapt more quickly and efficiently to changes in trends or demands for model changes if it did not keep any more inventory in-store than was immediately needed.
What Is a "Just Say No" Defense?  

A "just say no" defense is a strategy employed by boards of directors to discourage hostile takeovers by simply refusing to negotiate and rejecting outright whatever the prospective buyer might offer.



The legality of a "just say no" defense may depend on whether the target company has a long-term strategy it is pursuing, which can include a merger with a firm other than the one making the takeover bid, or if the takeover bid undervalues the company.





Key Takeaways

A "just say no" defense is a strategy used by boards of directors to discourage hostile takeovers by rejecting outright the takeover bid.Named after Nancy Reagan's "Just Say No" anti-drug campaign, this strategy gives the board power to decide whether to accept an acquisition proposal or not.Such a stance may be taken to render a takeover impossible or to encourage better offers either from the same bidder or, better yet, from a friendly white knight.The legality of a "just say no" defense may depend on whether the target company has a long-term strategy or if the takeover bid undervalues the company.A "just say no" defense is one of many strategies to prevent hostile takeovers. Others include a poison pill strategy and a white knight strategy. 


   Understanding a "Just Say No" Defense  

The origins of the "just say no" defense can be traced to the 1980s, when raiders with deep pockets bought undervalued companies, dismembering them for a quick profit. This prompted defenseless companies to come up with strategies to thwart corporate raiders.



The "just say no" defense was named after the anti-drug campaign promoted by former First Lady Nancy Reagan. The defense left it up to the board to decide whether to accept or reject a bid, regardless of how much was being offered. Reasons could include anything from fear of job security to a general dislike of the acquirer.






An early use of the term occurred in 1990 when NCR Corp. rejected AT&T's initial $90-per-share tender offer. NCR Chair Charles Exley said the board's stance was to "just say no" to the telephone giant.



The target company's board could deal with an unwanted bid by refusing to negotiate and waive potential defense strategies such as a poison pill. This stance may be taken to render a takeover impossible. Alternatively, it might be pursued to extract a better offer, either from the same bidder or, better yet, from a friendly white knight. 


   Example of a "Just Say No" Defense  

The case of Paramount Communications vs. Time helped establish the "just say no" defense as a viable anti-takeover strategy. Time was close to merging with Warner Communications but then received a bid from Paramount that its board rejected because the publishing company had already negotiated a long-term plan with Warner. In July 1989, the case was heard in the Court of Chancery in Wilmington, Delaware.



The Delaware courts had established precedents for corporate board actions during mergers and acquisitions in two previous cases. The Delaware Supreme Court ruled in the 1985 case involving Unocal, that directors defending their company from a raider may respond only in a reasonable way. Meanwhile, in the 1986 Revlon case, the court ruled that if the board decides to sell a company, it must accept the highest bid and not show any favoritism.



Fortunately for Time, the judge supported its board as the corporation's fiduciaries in this matter, even if shareholders might well have preferred to accept Paramount's bid, adding that corporate law does not compel directors to follow the wishes of the majority of the shares. To support the decision for the Time-Warner merger, the judge wrote: "Directors, not shareholders, are charged with the duty to manage the firm."



On appeal, the Delaware Supreme Court upheld the decision unanimously.


   Criticism of a “Just Say No” Defense  

A "just say no" defense isn't necessarily in the best interest of shareholders since board members can employ it even if an offer is made at a significant premium to the current share price.



Adding to this frustration is a number of stories of companies using this tactic to hold firm and rebuff offers that, in retrospect, they would have been better off accepting. One example is Yahoo, which engaged in a "just say no" battle to fight off a $44.6 billion bid from Microsoft (MSFT) in 2008 and then ended up selling off its core business several years later for $4.83 billion.


   Special Considerations  

There is a significant risk that a "just say no" defense won't be accepted by the courts. If the price offered looks fair and shareholders support it, the board's option to "just say no" may not be viable.



Still, that doesn't mean that directors won't give it a go. Yes, failure is possible. But so, too, is the prospect of securing the company's freedom or, failing that, at least squeezing out a better price for the business.




What Is the Just Say No Strategy?
A just say no strategy is a defense strategy used by the board of directors of a firm to prevent a hostile takeover. The strategy involves refusing to negotiate and rejecting all outright offers that a potential acquirer makes.




What Is the Poison Pill Defense?
A poison pill defense is a strategy employed by a company to prevent a hostile takeover. It is used when a potential acquirer owns a large portion of a company's outstanding shares. A poison pill strategy allows existing shareholders (but not the potential acquirer) to purchase additional shares at a discounted price, thereby diluting the value of the potential acquirer's shares.To control a significant portion of the company again, the potential acquirer would have to spend more money purchasing shares, making the attempted takeover more expensive.




Are Takeovers Good for Shareholders?
Takeovers are generally better for the company being acquired as the share price goes up for that company whereas takeovers are generally less beneficial for the shareholders of the acquiring company, as the share price usually goes down. Takeovers are complex strategies and depending on how they are enacted and carried out once complete, all shareholders can benefit or none at all.
What Is a Justified Wage?  

A justified wage refers to an income level determined by market dynamics, work experience, education, and skill. A justified wage is the wage level that is high enough to attract workers but low enough to enable employers to offer employment.



The divergence between a justified wage and the legal minimum wage may depend on several factors including the state of the economy and level of unemployment.





Key Takeaways

A justified wage is a fair level of compensation paid to an employee that takes into account both market and non-market factors.It is a wage that is often greater than the minimum wage, but which also allows employers to actively seek out and hire workers.The type of work, the skills demanded, experience, job duties, and the general state of the economy all come into play when establishing a justified wage.


   Understanding a Justified Wage  

A justified wage combines economic factors of supply and demand in the workforce with more social and culturally relevant inputs like work experience, education and skills training, and type of job. A wage is justified when it is seen as socially acceptable while at the same time economically feasible for both workers and employers.



For instance, the justified wage for a worker in a fast-food chain with two years of experience may be around $10 per hour. An investment banker in a large city like New York, on the other hand, may command a justified wage of upwards of $150,000 with the same two years of experience.



In a recession, the actual level of wages for this worker may drop to just above minimum wage due to the high level of unemployment and a stagnant economy. After the Great Recession, many investment banks justified lower wages due to slow economic growth.





$7.25

In 2022, the federal minimum wage remains stuck at $7.25/hr, where it has been since 2009. Many states and localities, however, have higher minimum wages—some upwards of $15/hr.


   Example: Justified Wages for Employees  

Companies may compare their employees' salaries and work experience when determining a justified wage. For example, one current employee, has 10 years' experience and receives a salary of $65,000. Based on this information, management determines that another employee's justified wage is $60,000 given that they have eight years' experience.



Management may also consider other factors when establishing a justified wage, such as what responsibilities the employee has and the revenue they generate. For instance, the amount of commissions a stockbroker writes could justify their wage. Employees can help determine their justified wage during pay reviews by discussing how they add value to the company.


   Example: Justified Wage for CEOs  

When determining a justified wage for a CEO, the board of directors of a company typically considers:



Leadership: What leadership skills does the CEO have? Do they have the ability to unite the senior management team and lead by example during times of transition? A CEO’s justified wage might be based on the ability to motivate employees.
Strategic Ability: Does the CEO allocate resources effectively? Do they enter markets that enable the organization to grow and attract new customers? For example, the board of a multinational company may determine the justified wage of a CEO based on a proven record of successfully entering foreign markets.
Network: A CEO’s justified wage might be dependent on how effectively network connections are utilized. For instance, do they have the ability to lure senior executives from competitors? A CEO may have a higher justified wage if they have contacts that allow them to secure new suppliers and customers.
