What is K?  

K is added to the end of a Nasdaq stock ticker when the shares offer no voting rights. The letter K is one of many Nasdaq ticker symbol extensions that tell investors various things about that particular stock.



K is also the ticker symbol of the Kellogg Company, listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).





Key Takeaways

K is added to Nasdaq ticker symbols that don't have voting rights.K is one of many extensions used by Nasdaq to provide additional information about a security.K shares, with no voting rights, tend to slightly underperform comparable shares with voting rights.


   Understanding K  

There are currently few stocks with no voting rights in the market because investors tend to shun such assets. These stocks typically trade at a discount to their counterparts that do have voting rights.



A shareholder vote is considered a fundamental right for investors. Without voting rights, shareholders generally feel that they are vulnerable to arbitrary or irrational business decisions by management.



In cases where a lot of trust is placed in management because it has historically delivered significant shareholder value over a long stretch of time, shareholders may not mind holding "K" shares.


   Other Extensions Including NYSE  

On the Nasdaq, a D at the end of a ticker represents a corporate reorganization. The letter T represents a security with warrants or rights. W is for warrants.



Z and L are more ambiguous, and could mean multiple things, but are usually tied to some preferred security.



P, O, N, and M signify whether a security is a first, second, third, or fourth preferred issue, respectively.



More common extensions include A and B. These represent Class A or Class B shares.



Depending on the trading or charting platform or data source, extensions may be directly added to the other ticker symbol characters, or they may be separated by a "." For example, BRK.A and BRK.B are the Class A and Class B shares of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. listed on the NYSE. In this case, the Class Bs are non-voting shares.



The NYSE also has extensions or identifiers.


   Example of K Shares in the Real World  

The non-voting shares for Liberty Global PLC (LBTYK) is an example of a stock that has had longevity because of a single man, John Malone, a pioneer in the cable industry who has a faithful following of shareholders. He was a former CEO of the company and is presently chair of the board. The K shares tend to slightly underperform the LBTYA shares, which are Class A voting shares.



If shareholder sentiment about management is less clear, a responsible firm would take action to eliminate a class of shares with no voting rights if it already had such a class. This occurred with Comcast Corporation (CMSCA), whose CEO, Brian Roberts, does not enjoy the same elevated status as John Malone in the cable industry. In December 2015 one share of CMCSK converted into one share of CMCSA which has voting rights. Shareholders applauded the move.
What Is the K-Percent Rule?  

The K-Percent Rule was a proposal by economist Milton Friedman that the central bank should increase the money supply by a constant percentage every year.





Key Takeaways

The K-Percent Rule was a proposal by economist Milton Friedman that the central bank should increase the money supply by a constant percentage every year.The K-Percent Rule proposes to set the money supply growth at a rate equal to the growth of gross domestic product (GDP) each year.In the United States, this would typically be in the range of 2-4%, based on historical averages.


   Understanding the K-Percent Rule  

The K-Percent Rule proposes to set the money supply growth at a rate equal to the economic growth rate each year. Gross domestic product (GDP) is a metric that shows the percentage growth of all goods and services produced in an economy. In the United States, the typical GDP growth rate is 2-4%, based on historical averages. The K-Percent Rule would allow the level of money supply in the economy to grow with the GDP growth rate.



Friedman claimed that the best way to bring stability to the economy over the long term was to have central banking authorities automatically grow the money supply by a set percentage or amount (the "K" variable) each year, irrespective of economic conditions.



Freidman argued the money supply should rise at an annual rate between 3% to 5%. The K-percent rule doesn't allow Fed officials any leeway when making monetary decisions. Friedman believed that monetary policy would be more effective under a rules-based system since discretionary policy might lead to mistakes and excessive monetary responses to economic conditions.



The Federal Reserve is the central bank of the United States and is charged with managing the money supply. If economic growth slows, the Fed can increase the money supply through various tools, which effectively increases lending through the banking system. For example, a cut in interest rates typically leads to a flurry of consumers to borrow more money, which is used to purchase homes, cars, and other products. These purchases stimulate the economy by creating spending and jobs, which in turn increases economic growth.



In addition to proposing the K-Percent Rule, Milton Friedman was a Nobel Prize winner in economics and the founder of monetarism, a branch of economics that singles out monetary growth and related policies as the most important driver of future inflation. Inflation is a measure of the pace of rising prices in an economy. If prices rise too fast, the wages paid to workers would have less purchasing power.



Friedman believed that monetary policy was a major contributor to cyclical fluctuations in the economy. Trying to fine-tune the economy by varying monetary policy, depending on economic conditions, was dangerous because too little was known about its effects.



The rule, Friedman argued, would help prevent mistakes by Federal Reserve officials. For example, in the 1930s, the Fed decreased the money supply in the U.S. economy, which exacerbated the depression.


   Discretionary Monetary Policy  

While the U.S. Federal Reserve Board is well-versed on the K-percent rule's merits, in practice, most advanced economies do base their monetary policy on the state of the economy. When the economy is cyclically weak, the Federal Reserve and others look to grow the money supply at a faster rate than the K-percent rule would suggest.



Conversely, when the economy is performing well, most central banking authorities seek to constrain money-supply growth. However, current U.S. monetary policy is not a rules-based system that is only triggered based on economic conditions. Instead, the policy is discretionary based on promoting economic growth and price stability.



Also, Fed officials can use that discretion and flexibility to help combat economic shocks and financial crises. For example, during the 2007-2008 financial crisis, the Fed initiated multiple policies to bring the economy back to growth, including reducing interest rates to nearly zero and implementing a buying program of U.S. Treasuries and other securities. Having the Fed as a buyer of debt created an enormous injection of cash into the banking system.
What Is the K-Ratio?  

The K-ratio is a valuation metric that examines the consistency of an equity's return over time. The data for the ratio is derived from a value-added monthly index (VAMI), which uses linear regression to track the progress of a $1,000 initial investment in the security being analyzed.





Key Takeaways

K-ratios measure an equity’s consistency of returns over time, calculated using the value-added monthly index (VAMI).The calculation involves running a linear regression on the logarithmic cumulative return of a Value-Added Monthly Index (VAMI) curve.The K-ratio takes into account the returns themselves, but also the order of those returns in measuring risk.The ratio measures the return of the security over time and is a good tool to measure the performance of equities because it takes the return trend into account.


   Formula and Calculation of the K-Ratio  

The K-ratio can be calculated as:















K-ratio formula.
 Investopedia



where there are n return periods in the monthly return data.


   What the K-Ratio Can Tell You  

The K-ratio was developed by derivatives trader and statistician Lars Kestner as a way to address a perceived gap in how returns had been analyzed. Because an investor’s key interests are returns and consistency, Kestner designed his K-ratio to measure risk versus return by analyzing how steady a security, portfolio, or manager’s returns are over time. 



The K-ratio takes into account the returns, but also the order of those returns in measuring risk. The calculation involves running a linear regression on the logarithmic cumulative return of a Value-Added Monthly Index (VAMI) curve. The results of the regression are then used in the K-ratio formula. The slope is the return, which should be positive, while the standard error of the slope represents the risk.



In 2003, Kestner introduced a modified version of his original K-ratio, which changed the formula of the calculation to include the number of return data points in the denominator. He introduced a further modification, which added a square root calculation to the numerator, in 2013.


   Example of How to Use the K-Ratio  

The ratio measures the return of the security over time and it is considered to be a good tool to measure the performance of equities because it takes the return trend into account, versus point-in-time snapshots.



The K-ratio allows for a comparison of cumulative returns for different equities (and equity managers) returns over time. It differs from the widely used Sharpe measure by taking into account the order in which returns occur. In practice, the K-ratio is designed to be viewed in tandem with and in addition to other measures of performance.



In addition to their use in analyzing individual stock returns, style categories, and fund managers, K-ratios can also be calculated for bonds. K-ratios will differ across asset classes (domestic stocks versus bonds versus emerging market stocks), within asset classes (e.g., large-cap versus small-cap) and by time period.
What is a Kagi Chart?  

The Kagi chart is a specialized type of technical analysis developed in Japan in the 1870s. It uses a series of vertical lines to illustrate general levels of supply and demand for certain assets, including the price movement of rice, a core Japanese agricultural product. Thick lines are drawn when the price of the underlying asset breaks above the previous high price and is interpreted as an increase in demand for the asset. Thin lines are used to represent increased supply when the price falls below the previous low.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020





Key Takeaways

Kagi charts change direction when there is a price reversal of a specified amount, or more.The chart continues to move in that direction until there is price reversal of the specified amount in the other direction.When the price moves above the prior Kagi high the line turns thick (or green) and when the price drops below the prior Kagi low the line turns thin (or red). The line stays thick or thin until the opposite signal occurs.The changes in direction, changes in line thickness, as well as other patterns can generate buy and sell signals.


   What Does a Kagi Chart Tell You?  

On the Kagi chart, an entry signal is triggered when the vertical line changes from thin to thick and is not reversed until the thick line changes back to thin. Like any other chart, these signals should be filtered based on other fundamental or technical criteria, as simply buying or selling every time time Kagi chart switches from thick to thin could prove costly and unprofitable.



The line turns thick when a new high is made (if the line was thin). The line stays thick as long as a new low isn't made. The line turns thin when a new low is made, and stays that way until a new high is made (turns thick).



The Kagi chart will move up and down as the price moves by the reversal amount, or more.



These charts are independent of time and only change direction once a predefined reversal amount is reached. The reversal amount is discussed below.



Kagi charts, having no regard for time, have the advantage of reducing noise. Noise is a particular drawback of traditional candlestick charting methods. Because a change in price direction occurs only after a specific threshold is reached, some traders may find Kagi charts useful in terms of isolating the trend and viewing direction more clearly.



Depending on the trading or charting platform used, the Kagi chart line may not be thin or thick, but rather colored, such as red and green. The color changes signal a drop below a recent high or low.


   Kagi Chart Reversal Amount  

A Kagi chart will reverse direction when the price has moved the other direction by a specified amount (or more). Assume a trader is trading Apple Inc. (AAPL) and they want the chart to show when there is a $10 reversal. A Kagi chart can show that.



If the Kagi chart (and price) is moving higher to $300, the Kagi will not reverse until the price drops below $290. If the price rises to $350, the Kagi won't reverse until the price drops below $340. If the price falls to $340 the Kagi will not reverse higher until the price moves back above $350.



The $10 reversal is a moving target. The $10 reversal can be based on closing prices or highs and lows.



The reversal amount doesn't need to be a fixed amount. It can also be based on Average True Range (ATR), which means the reversal amount will change as volatility changes.



When the Kagi chart reverses, it draws a horizontal line at the low or high price (close, high or low, depending on which is selected) and then reverses. It will continues to move vertically until there is a reversal.



These are directional changes on the chart. The lines changing color or switching from thick to thin highlights when a prior Kagi chart high or low is breached.


   Kagi Chart Trade Signals  

As discussed, Kagi chart signals are best used in conjunction with other forms of analysis. That said, Kagi charts do have some unique trade signals based on their formations.



Swing highs on a Kagi chart are called shoulders and swing lows are called waists.



Rising shoulders signal a rising market and a buying opportunity.



Falling waists indicate a downtrend.



A Three Buddha bottom is the Kagi version of an inverse head and shoulders and may generate a buying opportunity.



Multiple Kagi patterns are covered in the book Beyond Candlesticks by Steve Nison.


   Example of How to Use a Kagi Chart  

The follow chart shows a Kagi chart of Apple based on 1-hour closing prices. The reversal amount is $5.












TradingView



The chart shows examples of rising shoulders, which highlight the price rising in an uptrend. The series of falling waists signals the price is in an downtrend.



There are also three examples of the Three Buddha Bottom highlighted, which signaled buying opportunities.



As a general note, the Kagi switches to green when the price moves above the prior Kagi high and switches to red when the price drops below the prior Kagi low.


   The Difference Between Kagi Charts and Renko Charts  

Kagi and Renko charts are both based on reversal amounts. Renko charts are created by bricks that only move at 45-degree angles and never occur beside each other. Each brick is a specified amount. In order to get a reversal on the Renko chart the price must move two brick distances since there are no side-by-side bricks.


   The Limitations of Using Kagi Charts  

Kagi charts are sensitive to their settings, and with poor settings they can be as noisy as other charting methods.



Once a "good" setting is found for a particular asset, that setting may not work well on another asset. The trader therefore may need to find Kagi settings that work for each asset traded.



For some traders the trend may be harder to identify with the Kagi charts, with the line thickness (or color) changing as well as the chart itself moving up and down in vertical lines.



While trade signals with Kagi charts will have some similarities to other chart types, like candlesticks, Kagi charts have unique features which may require additional study to take advantage of.



Many of the general buy and signals generated by Kagi charts won't be profitable over many trades until combined with other forms of analysis to help filter trades.
What Is the Kairi Relative Index (KRI)?  

The Kairi Relative Index is a technical analysis metric that traders use to indicate when it is time to buy or sell an asset. It measures the deviation of the price from the simple moving average (SMA) of that asset's price over a period of time, typically 10 to 20 days.



If an asset's price is much higher than the SMA of the asset over a chosen time period, the Kairi Relative Index favors selling. If an asset's price is much lower than the simple moving average, then the index favors buying the asset.





Key Takeaways

The Kairi Relative Index measures the distance between closing prices and a Simple Moving Average (SMA).Extreme reading in the KRI are considered buy and sell signals. Extreme readings will vary by asset, with more volatile assets reaching much higher and lower extremes that more sedate assets.The KRI is not an accurate timing signal, and therefore, should be combined with other forms of analysis to generate trade signals.


   The Formula for the Kairi Relative Index (KRI)  

















Kairi


 


Relative


 


Index


 


(KRI)


















=


[




Close


−


S


M



A


n





S


M



A


n





]


×


100
















where:
















S


M


A


=


Simple moving average
















n


=


Number of periods averaged in SMA







\begin{aligned}&\textit{Kairi Relative Index (KRI)}\\&\qquad=\bigg[\frac{\textit{Close}-SMA_n}{SMA_n}\bigg]\times100\\&\textbf{where:}\\&SMA=\text{Simple moving average}\\&n=\text{Number of periods averaged in SMA}\end{aligned}


​Kairi Relative Index (KRI)=[SMAn​Close−SMAn​​]×100where:SMA=Simple moving averagen=Number of periods averaged in SMA​


   How to Calculate the Kairi Relative Index  

Calculate a simple moving average using the most recent closing prices for a specified number of periods, such as 10 (n).
Deduct the n-period SMA from the most recent close price.
Divide the result by the SMA.
Multiply by 100.
Repeat the process as each period closes.


   What Does the Kairi Relative Index Tell You?  

The Kairi Relative Index was invented by an investor in Japan. It came into widespread usage in the middle of the 20th century, but by the 1970s it had been superseded by more sophisticated metrics like the Relative Strength Index (RSI). 



The KRI is measuring how far away the price is from its moving average. Assets that move a lot will tend to have larger values than assets that don't move a lot. For example, an extremely low reading on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) is between -7 and -15 and a high reading is four to 10 on the upside.



A volatile stock may have extreme readings of -40 or +50. Therefore, when the indicator is applied to a stock or other asset, note the extreme levels the indicator has reached in the past on that asset. Those are the areas to watch for on the indicator in the future.



When the indicator falls to an extremely low reading for that asset, the indicator is saying the price is oversold and could bounce. Consider waiting for confirmation, such as the price actually starting to rise before buying.



When the indicator rises to an extremely high reading for that particular asset, the indicator is saying the price is overbought and could decline. Consider waiting for confirmation before selling, such as the price starting to fall.


   Example of How to Use the Kairi Relative Index  

On the chart below, the KRI is added to a Apple Inc. (AAPL) weekly chart.



Over more than seven years, extreme readings on the upside have typically been 15 or above. Extremely low readings have been below -10.



Some of these extremes are marked by vertical lines on the chart, with green lines representing KRI buy signals and red lines representing KRI sell signals.












 Tradingview



While some of these trades would have worked out, mainly because Apple was in an overall uptrend during the period, many signals would have resulted in poor entry and exit points if the KRI was used on its own. Several buy signals occurred when the price of Apple was still declining. Several sell points occurred too early as the price will still moving higher.



Waiting for confirmation of a price reversal once the KRI had reached an extreme would have helped prevent some of these early entries and exits.


   Difference Between the KRI and the MACD  

The KRI measures the distance of closing prices to the SMA. The Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) measures the distance between two exponential moving averages. A signal line is then typically applied to the MACD to generate trade signals.


   Limitations of Using the Kairi Relative Index  

The KRI is tracking how far an asset is from its moving average. Extreme readings are considered sell or buy signals, but users must also note that the more extreme the reading the stronger the trend is. Prices need to run fast and hard in order to move away from the moving average. Therefore, trying to short a rapidly rising market or buy a rapidly falling market can be like stepping in front of a freight train.



It is prudent to wait for some other form of verification that the price is actually turning when the Kairi indicator reaches an extreme level. Trades may use other technical indicators or price action to signal the price is turning.



The KRI may turn lower or higher without the asset's price turning lower or higher. This can happen because the distance between the price and the SMA narrows, but the price can still continue in its current direction.



A simple moving average is the main component of the KRI indicator. Averages are historical in nature, and may not provide insight into what will happen in the future.
What Is Kaizen?  

Kaizen is a Japanese term meaning change for the better or continuous improvement. It is a Japanese business philosophy that concerns the processes that continuously improve operations and involve all employees. Kaizen sees improvement in productivity as a gradual and methodical process.



The concept of kaizen encompasses a wide range of ideas. It involves making the work environment more efficient and effective by creating a team atmosphere, improving everyday procedures, ensuring employee engagement, and making a job more fulfilling, less tiring, and safer.





Key Takeaways

Kaizen is a Japanese business philosophy that focuses on gradually improving productivity and making a work environment more efficient.Kaizen supports change from any employee at any time.Kaizen translates to change for the better or continuous improvement.Kaizen's small changes can involve quality control, just-in-time delivery, standardized work, the use of efficient equipment, and the elimination of waste.The Kaizen methodology underscores that small changes now can have big future impacts. supports.


   Understanding Kaizen  

Some of the key objectives of the kaizen philosophy include quality control, just-in-time delivery, standardized work, the use of efficient equipment, and the elimination of waste.



The overall goal of kaizen is to make small changes over a period of time to create improvements within a company. That doesn't mean alterations happen slowly. The kaizen process simply recognizes that small changes now can have huge impacts in the future.



Improvements can come from any employee at any time. The idea is that everyone has a stake in the company's success and everyone should strive, at all times, to help make the business model better.



Many companies have adopted the kaizen concept. Most notably, Toyota employs the kaizen meaning and philosophy within its organization. It esteems kaizen as one of its core values. To improve its production system, Toyota encourages and empowers all employees to identify areas of potential improvement and create viable solutions.





Fast Fact

Toyota’s process of identifying solutions is called "kaizen blitz."


   How Does Kaizen Work?  

Kaizen involves five key principles: know your customer, let it flow, go to gemba (or the real place), empower people and be transparent.



These five principles lead to three major outcomes: elimination of waste (also referred to as economic efficiency), good housekeeping, and standardization. Ideally, kaizen becomes so ingrained in a company's culture that it eventually becomes natural to employees.



The kaizen meaning posits that there is no perfect end and that everything can be improved upon. People must strive to evolve and innovate constantly.



The basic idea of kaizen is that people who perform certain tasks and activities know the most about them. Empowering those people to effect change is the best strategy for improvement.






Teamwork is core to kaizen, where regular team meetings are held involving discussions about improvements, changes, and projects.


   What Are Some Benefits of Kaizen?  

Kaizen offers companies many valuable benefits. Some of them are:



Greater staff satisfactionImproved customer satisfactionReduction in staff turnoverStrengthened employee loyaltyLower costsGreater efficiency and productivityBetter problem solving


   Kaizen and the PDCA Cycle  

Improvements generally follow the PDCA cycle format. PDCA stands for Plan-Do-Check-Act. The Plan portion includes proposing and mapping out changes so that everyone knows what to expect when teams try to solve a problem.



The Do stage implements the best solution for the problem. The Check step involves evaluating the solution to the problem to see if it worked.



When a company Acts, it determines whether or not the solution should become a company standard or if it needs further changes. If managers decide to implement more changes, kaizen goes back to the Plan step and the process starts over.


   Just-in-Time Inventory Strategy  

One of the key goals of the kaizen process is to reduce waste and increase efficiency in the production cycle. A just-in-time (JIT) inventory strategy allows management to minimize excess inventory by matching the delivery of raw materials from suppliers with production schedules.



The JIT strategy is also known as the Toyota Production System (TPS), for the company that popularized it, JIT helps companies cut costs because manufacturers do not have to pay inventory carrying costs. It also reduces waste because companies are not left with extra inventory should a customer cancel or postpone an order.



Kanban is an inventory control system used in conjunction with a JIT strategy. It provides employees with visual cues that tell them it is time to order parts and materials as they run out.



The system relies on colored cards that track production and alert employees when it's time to replenish a needed part or material. It enables employees to quickly order the correct number of parts from the supplier and have them delivered to where they are needed in the factory.



The goal of kanban is to ensure the efficient running of the factory assembly line and to prevent bottlenecks from occurring.




What Are the 5 Elements of Kaizen?
The five kaizen elements or principles are: know your customer, let it flow, go to gemba, empower people, and be transparent. People also sometimes ask what kaizen 5S refers to. It's a process often used in lean manufacturing and relates to five steps of improvement: Sort, Straighten, Sweep, Standardize, and Sustain. A 5S event follows each of these steps one day at a time.




What Is the Kaizen Method?
It's a business philosophy with guiding principles and tools that seeks to involve all employees in the gradual and continuous improvement of various areas of a company. The kaizen method focuses on engaging employees and using teamwork to create a successful and enjoyable work environment.




What Is an Example of Kaizen?
Toyota is a famous example of a company using kaizen to sustain its success. Another commonly known example of kaizen in action involves Ford Motor Company, which embraced kaizen to cut the time it took to complete various manufacturing processes.




What Are the Main Tools of Kaizen?
The kaizen methodology uses different tools depending on the goal. For instance, the 5S tool is often used in lean manufacturing and to ensure that workplaces are efficient, productive, and safe. JIT and Kanban are used for inventory control. The five whys (what, when, where, why, and who) is a tool used to reveal the root cause of a problem. Value stream mapping is an analytic tool that is used to identify places to eliminate waste. Follow-up events are tools used to sustain improvements.
What Is a Kamikaze Defense?  

A Kamikaze defense is a defensive strategy sometimes resorted to by a company's management to prevent a takeover by another company.



While these strategies are named after the suicidal kamikaze attacks used by Japanese pilots during World War II, they rarely destroy the company. Nevertheless, a kamikaze defense involves taking measures that are detrimental to the firm's business operations or financial condition. The idea is to reduce the target company’s attractiveness to a hostile bidder. A kamikaze defense is desperate, but the hope is that the takeover bid will be thwarted.





Key Takeaways

A Kamikaze defense is a defensive strategy sometimes resorted to by a company's management to prevent a takeover by another company.A Kamikaze defense deliberately inflicts damage on the company to prevent a takeover.Kamikaze defenses include selling the crown jewels, scorched earth policies, and the fat man strategy.


   Understanding Kamikaze Defenses  

A company where management does not want it to fall into another group's hands may try a kamikaze defense as a last resort.



In an intended acquisition process, an interested party will usually build up a small stake in the target company and approach the board of directors with an offer to buy the company. Suppose the board rebuffs the offer, which would invariably be the case if the board and its financial advisors believed that the offer substantially undervalued the company. Then, the interested party could assume a more aggressive stance to take over the company. Suppose the would-be acquirers feel like they are getting nowhere with more pressing negotiations. In that case, they may attempt a hostile takeover against the board's wishes.



In response, the target company could seek out a white knight. This friendly party would generally hold together the current business operations of the company. Existing management would usually prefer that rather than disrupting or dismantling their company, which is often the end result of a successful hostile takeover.



Another takeover defense mechanism is the adoption of a poison pill. That is generally considered a shareholder-unfriendly move, but it is mild in comparison to full kamikaze strategies. A kamikaze defense may succeed in the end, but the company would leave itself in a weakened state.






Kamikaze defenses are often undertaken by management to protect their own interests or at the behest of the company's founders and their heirs. Kamikaze defenses rarely work to the benefit of ordinary shareholders.


   Types of Kamikaze Defenses  

There are several different ways that companies can make themselves less attractive takeover targets, usually at considerable cost to themselves.


  Selling the Crown Jewels  

When a company sells the crown jewels, management sells off its best assets to make it a less attractive target and raise cash.



For example, a struggling firm might own valuable commercial real estate in key locations. The hostile takeover might be aimed at getting that real estate at below-market prices. By selling that commercial real estate in the market, the firm might get more money for it and deter the takeover. On the other hand, this kamikaze defense also means the company loses the use of that property for future operations, which could be highly damaging.


  Scorched Earth Policy  

The scorched earth policy is named after a morally dubious and often illegal military strategy in which a retreating army destroys crops and supplies to slow down an enemy advance. When a company's management pursues a scorched earth policy, they also try to remove assets that might be valuable to their opponents and run legal risks.



For example, they could fire skilled employees who are difficult to replace and fail to perform proper maintenance, ultimately destroying equipment. This kamikaze defense can cause serious legal problems if workers are endangered or the parties behind the takeover bid get an injunction.


  Fat Man Strategy  

In the fat man strategy, the company's management loads up on debt and acquires lots of assets or even other firms to make the company a less attractive takeover target. At its best, the fat man strategy simply makes the target company too large and unwieldy for the other company to acquire. The resulting larger company might still be viable, just too big to buy.



On the other hand, the kamikaze aspect comes into play if the new acquisitions were overpriced or a poor fit for the company. If that happens, the takeover target might survive the hostile takeover attempt only to fail later on due to excessive debt.
What Is Kanban?  

Kanban is an inventory control system used in just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing. It was developed by Taiichi Ohno, an industrial engineer at Toyota, and takes its name from the colored cards that track production and order new shipments of parts or materials as they run out. Kanban is a Japanese word that directly translates to "visual card", so the kanban system simply means to use visual cues to prompt the action needed to keep a process flowing.





Key Takeaways

Kanban (Japanese for sign) is an inventory control system used in just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing to track production and order new shipments of parts and materials.Kanban was developed by Taiichi Ohno, an industrial engineer at Toyota, and uses visual cues to prompt the action needed to keep a process flowing.One of the main goals of kanban is to limit the buildup of excess inventory at any point on the production line.Kanban also strives to limit bottlenecks by promoting communication and information sharing between individuals and departments.Successful implementation of kanban may lead to reduced expenses, greater customer satisfaction, more efficient processes, and minimized risk due to unforeseen problems. 


   Understanding the Kanban System  

The kanban system can be thought of as a signal and response system. When an item is running low at an operational station, there will be a visual cue specifying how much to order from the supply. The person using the parts makes the order for the quantity indicated by the kanban and the supplier provides the exact amount requested.



For example, if a worker is bagging product on a conveyor belt, a kanban may be placed in the stack above the last 10 bags. When the worker gets to the card, he gives the floor runner the card to bring more bags. A station further from the supply room might have the kanban placed at 15 bags and a closer one at five. The flow of bags and the placement of cards are adjusted to make sure no station is left bag-less while the belt is running.



The kanban system can be used easily within a factory, but it can also be applied to purchasing inventory from external suppliers. The kanban system creates extraordinary visibility to both suppliers and buyers. One of its main goals is to limit the buildup of excess inventory at any point on the production line. Limits on the number of items waiting at supply points are established and then reduced as inefficiencies are identified and removed. Whenever a limit of inventory is exceeded, it points to an inefficiency that needs to be addressed.



As containers of parts or materials are emptied, cards appear, color-coded in order of priority, allowing the production and delivery of more before a hold-up or shortage develops. A two-card system is often used. T-kanban transportation cards authorize the movement of containers to the next workstation on the production line, while P-kanban production cards authorize the workstation to produce a fixed amount of products and order parts or materials once they have been sold or used.






Kanban often requires company-wide buy-in to be effective. Each department must be relied upon to perform their necessary tasks at a specific time in order to transition the process to future departments. Without this wide buy-in, kanban methodologies will be futile.


   Kanban Core Practices  

The kanban method has several core principles that define how processes occur and how team members should be involved in the process.


  Visualize Workflows  

At the heart of kanban, the process must be visually depicted. Whether by physical, tangible cards or leveraging technology and software, the process must be shown step by step using visual cues that make each tasks clearly identifiable. The idea is to clearly show what each step is, what expectations are, and who will take what tasks.



Old-fashioned (but still used today) methods included drafting kanban tasks on sticky notes. Each sticky note could be colored differently to signify different types of work items. These tasks would then be placed into swim lanes, defined sections that group related tasks to create a more organized project. Today, inventory management software typically drives kanban process.


  Limit WIP  

As kanban is rooted in efficiency, the goal of kanban is to minimize the amount of work in progress. Teams are encouraged to complete prior tasks before moving on to a new one. This ensures that future dependencies can be started earlier and that resources such as staff are not inefficiently waiting to start their task while relying on others.



A company must internally assess the appropriate amount of WIP to be carrying as it works through the kanban process. This is often tied to the number of people along the process; as the number of workers tied to a project decreases, so does the allowed quantity of items being worked on. This limitation also communicates to other teams or departments that they must be considerate of their ask of other teams as each group of individuals may be imposed a working limitation.


  Manage Workflows  

As a process is undertaken, a company will be able to identify strengths and weaknesses along the work flow. Sometimes, limitations are not met or goals not achieved; in this case, it is up to the team to manage the work flow and better understand the deficiencies that must be overcome.



A critical part of kanban is to observe and eliminate bottlenecks prior to them occurring. This includes forecasting production and resource utilization. As a process becomes more predictable, a company will find it is easier to make commitments to customers or make processes even more efficient by fully scaling back additional unused resources.


  Clearly Define Policies  

As part of visually depicting workflows, processes are often clearly defined. Departments can often easily understand the expectations placed on their teams, and kanban cards assigned to specific individuals clearly identify responsibilities for each task. By very clearly defining policies, each worker will understand what is expected of them, what checklist criteria must be met before completion, and what occurs during the transition between steps.


  Implement Feedback Loops  

When using the kanban method, companies often gather information, analyze how the process is flowing, and implement changes to further improve the process. This feedback loop allows employees to continuously improve and make incremental, small improvements that are easier to adapt to. The feedback may be positive feedback or negative feedback. The kanban approach is to understand failures early in the process and to incur them quickly; this allows the company to adapt to a correct path before the inefficiencies become a larger issue.


  Improve Collaboration  

Because tasks are broken down into very small kanban cards, individuals must often rely upon each other when using the kanban method. Individuals, often on different teams, must collaborate and discuss transitions between swim lanes, while other individuals must group to identify and resolve issues quickly. Under kanban, changes to the process must be broadly communicated as adjustments made in one area may have a wider impact in other.


   Kanban Board  

The kanban process utilizes kanban boards, organizational systems that clearly outline the elements of a process. A kanban board often has three elements: boards, lists, and cards.



Kanban boards are the biggest picture of a process that organizes broad aspects of a workflow. For example, a company may choose to have a different kanban board for different departments within its organization (i.e. finance, marketing, etc.). The kanban board is used to gather relevant processes within a single workspace or taskboard area.



Kanban lists are the to-do items within each board. For example, a manufacturer may have each stage of manufacturing as a list item, as kanban lists often represent different stages of production within a similar field. Kanban lists may also flow from one task to another; often, one task will end and another task will pick up with the next action item following the completion of the prior list item.



Last, kanban cards live within lists and represent the most minute, detailed action items needed to complete the list. These cards are the specific items that must be addressed in sequential order to complete the list. For example, a manufacturer must contact the supplier, confirm raw material availability, submit the order, receive the inventory items, and begin manufacturing. Each of these steps can even be refined further into more specific kanban cards that represent mini-projects.



The example below depicts the an example of a kanban or pull system with well-defined tasks, swim lanes, and an overall demonstration of the flow of tasks.















Example of Kanban Board.
U.S. General Services Administration


   Electronic Kanban Systems  

To enable real-time demand signaling across the supply chain, electronic kanban systems have become widespread. These e-kanban systems can be integrated into enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. These systems leverage digital kanban boards, lists, and cards that communicate the status of processes across departments



Toyota, Ford Motor Company and Bombardier Aerospace are among the manufacturers that use e-kanban systems. These electronic systems still provide visual signals, but the systems are also usually enabled to automate parts of the process, such as transport through the factory or even filing purchase orders.


   Scrum vs. Kanban  

Scrum and kanban both hold methodologies that help companies operate more efficiently. However, each have very different approaches to achieving that efficiency. Scrum approaches affix certain timeframes for changes to be made; during these periods, specific changes are made. With kanban, changes are made continuously.



The scrum methodology breaks tasks into sprints, defined periods with start and end periods in which the tasks are well defined and to be executed in a certain manner. No changes or deviations from these timings or tasks should occur. Scrum is often measured by velocity or planned capacity, and a product owner or scrum master oversees the process.



On the other hand, kanban is more adaptive in that it analyzes what has been done in the past and makes continuous changes. Teams set their own cadence or cycles, and these cycles often change as needed. Kanban measures success by measuring cycle time, throughput, and work in progress.






Kanban should not be confused with kaizen, the methodology of continuous improvement.


   Benefits of Kanban  

The idea of kanban carries various benefits, ranging from internal efficiencies to positive impacts on customers.



The purpose of kanban is to visualize the flow of tasks and processes. For this reason, kanban brings greater visibility and transparency to the flow of tasks and objectives. By depicting steps and the order in which they must occur, project participants may get a better sense of the flow of tasks and importance of interrelated steps.



Because kanban strives to be more efficient, companies using kanban often experience faster turnaround times. This includes faster manufacturing processes, quicker packaging and handling, and more efficient delivery times to customers. This reduces company carrying costs (i.e. storage, insurance, risk of obsolescence) while also turning over capital quicker for more efficient usage.



Companies that use kanban practices may also have greater predictability for what's to come. By outlining future steps and tasks, companies may be able to get a better sense of risks, roadblocks, or difficulties that would have otherwise slowed the process. Instead, companies can preemptively plan to attack these deficiencies and allocate resources to combat hurdles before they slow processes.



Last, the ultimate goal of kanban is to provide better service to customers. With more efficient and less wasteful processes, customers may be charged lower prices. With faster processes, customers may get their goods faster. By being on top of processes, customers may be able to interact with customer service quicker and have resolutions met faster.


   Disadvantages of Kanban  

For some companies, kanban is not possible to be implemented or not feasible to practice. First, kanban relies on stability; a company must have a predictable process that cannot materially deviate. For companies operating in dynamic environments where activities are not stable, the company may find it difficult to operate using kanban.



Kanban is often related to other production methodologies (just-in-time, scrum, etc.). For this reason, a company may not reap all benefits if it only accepts kanban practices. For example, a company may understand when it will need raw materials when reviewing kanban cards; however, if the company does not utilize just-in-time inventory, it may be incurring unnecessary expenses to carry the raw materials during periods when it is sitting idle.



Kanban also has the demand of needing to be consistently updated for a few reasons. First, if completed tasks are not marked off, the team analyzing next steps may not adequately assess where along the process the team is at. Second, there is no timing assessments to different phases, so team members must be aware of how much time is allocated to their task and what future deadlines rely on the task at hand.




What Are the Rules of Kanban?
Under the kanban method, companies must be continually improving, providing feedback loops to workers, and striving to be efficient with resources. Kanban requires companies to visually depict processes, assign tasks to swim lanes, and ensure individuals are communicating changes across the entire process or project.




Why Do We Use Kanban?
Kanban strives to save companies time, money, and other resources by ensuring there is minimal downtime between tasks. In addition, kanban attempts to target bottlenecks before they occur, ensuring that steps can be taken in advance to avoid having work in process sit idly back while problems are fixed.




Is Kanban Agile or Lean?
Kanban bridges both agile and lean frameworks. It is agile in that processes are visually depicted in advance of occurring. This means changes can be made in advance of issues. In addition, kanban is a pull system in that work is pulled through a process when each prior step is completed. Instead of having inventory pile up from one stage to another, kanban aims to have just enough inventory working its way through a manufacturing process.


   The Bottom Line  

The kanban approach is a methodology that aims to minimize waste, downtime, inefficiencies, and bottlenecks along a process. Projects are visually depicted using boards, lists, and cards that show responsibilities across departments. When executed appropriately, kanban can minimize manufacturing expenses, utilize labor more efficiently, improve customer service, and minimize delivery times.
What Is a Kangaroo Bond?  

A kangaroo bond is a type of foreign bond issued in the Australian market by non-Australian firms and is denominated in Australian currency. The bond is subject to the securities regulations of Australia. A kangaroo bond is also known as a "matilda bond."





Key Takeaways

Kangaroo bonds are issued in Australian markets by foreign firms and are denominated in Australian dollars. Companies might issue bonds in other currencies to benefit from exposure to that country’s market or interest rates, or to raise cash in the foreign currency.Foreign companies often seek to broaden their investor base by raising funds in other jurisdictions.The benefit of kangaroo bonds to Australian investors is that they are not subject to currency risks that they would be if purchasing the same bonds in a foreign currency.


   How a Kangaroo Bond Works  

Bond issuers that want access to investors and lenders in the Australian debt market would issue a bond referred to as a kangaroo bond, named in recognition of the country’s national animal emblem. A kangaroo bond is a foreign bond issued in Australian dollars by non-domestic entities, including corporations, financial institutions, and governments. 



Simply put, a foreign bond is issued in a domestic market by a foreign issuer in the currency of the domestic country. Foreign bonds are mainly used to provide issuers with access to another capital market outside of their own to raise capital.



Major corporations and/or investment firms looking to diversify their holdings and improve their overall currency exposures can use kangaroo bonds to raise funds in Australian dollars. Kangaroo bonds are typically issued when interest rates in Australia are low relative to the foreign corporation's domestic rates, thus, lowering the foreign issuer's overall interest expense and cost of borrowing.


   Benefits of a Kangaroo Bond   

A company may choose to enter a foreign market if it believes that it would get attractive interest rates in this market or if it has a need for foreign currency. When a company decides to tap into a foreign market, it can do so by issuing foreign bonds, which are bonds denominated in the currency of the intended market. 



A kangaroo bond is an attractive investment venture for domestic investors who are not exposed to currency risk since the bonds are denominated in their local currency. Furthermore, investors who wish to diversify their portfolios beyond their local borders may opt for these bonds and earn incremental yield. In effect, kangaroo bonds provide an opportunity to invest in foreign companies without having to manage the effects of currency exchange fluctuations.



Many issuers do not necessarily have a need for Australian dollars when they issue kangaroo bonds. Proceeds from the sale of the bonds are typically converted back to a currency that the issuer requires through financial instruments such as cross-currency swaps. 



These swaps are used to hedge the foreign exchange risk associated with the issuer’s obligation to pay coupons and repay the principal in Australian dollars. For example, through a cross-currency swap, a kangaroo bond issuer can lend Australian dollars at the bank bill swap rate (BBSW) plus the basis, while paying the fed funds rate plus some margin for U.S. dollars.






The risk associated with raising capital in a foreign currency can often be mitigated with risk-management techniques such as cross-currency swaps.


   Example of a Kangaroo Bond  

In January 2018, Emirates NBD, Dubai’s largest bank, priced a A$450 million ($362.03 million) 10-year bond, part of a A$1.5 billion kangaroo bond program, with a 4.75 percent indicative annual coupon. The reason for the bond issuance was to diversify the bank’s source of funding and to facilitate its expansion into new markets.



Major issuers of kangaroo bonds have typically been from the United States and Germany. Other foreign bonds include Samurai bonds, Maple bonds, Matador bonds, Yankee bonds, and Bulldog bonds.
What Are Kangaroos?  

"Kangaroo" is a slang term used to describe the Australian stocks that comprise the country’s benchmark All-Ordinaries Index. The index consists of stocks of the most actively traded Australian companies.





Key Takeaways

Kangaroos refer colloquially to the stocks included in the Australian All-Ordinaries Index. The All-Ordinaries Index reflects is a benchmark of the aggregate market value of the 500 largest traded companies, by market capitalization.Kangaroos can also refer to Australians dollar-denominated securities, such as bonds issued in Australia by foreign companies. 


   Understanding Kangaroos  

The Kangaroos comprise the All-Ordinaries Index, which represents the most quoted benchmark index for the country’s equities market. The Australian Stock Exchange is in charge of calculating and distributing the index and its returns.



The market-weighted All-Ordinaries Index, which launched in January 1980, is the oldest index in Australia and includes about 500 companies. The index began at a base value of 500.00, corresponding to the contemporaneous aggregate market value of all the member companies in the index at the end of trading on the last day of 1979.



Subsequent values of the index are calculated as the base number 500 times the proportion of the current aggregate market value of index members to the aggregate market value at the beginning of the index. The market capitalization of the companies included in the index represents a dominant share of the value of all shares listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.



For inclusion, All-Ordinaries Index companies have to have a market value of at least 0.2 percent of all domestic equities quoted on the exchange and have an average turnover of at least 0.5 percent of its quoted shares per month. Market values of those stocks meeting these criteria vary, so share price movements among larger-cap companies exert a greater influence on the index than smaller companies. Financial companies make up the largest component of the Index when broken down by industrial sectors, followed by raw materials and industrial sectors.


  Total Market Performance  

Because it is weighted by market capitalization and indexed to aggregate market value, the All-Ordinaries Index reflects total market performance rather than the typical performance of individual stocks. Notably, the index does not include dividends paid to shareholders. As a result, the index does not reflect the total returns made from share market investments over any particular period.



The Australian Stock Exchange updates the index portfolio at the end of every month to make sure that the companies remain eligible for inclusion. Changes in the portfolio companies, such as delistings, additions, and capital reconstructions, can also lead to index changes during the month.


   Kangaroos in the Bond Market  

Kangaroos can refer to Australia’s bond market as well. In this case, a kangaroo bond is a foreign bond issued in Australia’s market by a non-Australian firm but denominated in Australian dollars. The issuer’s goal would be to diversify their debt and gain exposure to investors and lenders participating in Australia’s debt market.



Among those that issue kangaroo bonds are corporations, financial institutions, and governments. Historically, market participants from the U.S. and Germany have been significant issuers of kangaroo bonds.



Typically, the kangaroo bond sees increased issuance when interest rates in Australia are low relative to the foreign corporation's domestic rates, thus lowering the foreign issuer's overall interest expense and cost of borrowing.



Similar in concept to kangaroo bonds, foreign bonds issued on other markets include the likes of Samurai bonds, Maple bonds, Matador bonds, Yankee bonds, and Bulldog bonds.
What Is Kappa?  

Kappa is the measurement of an option contract's price sensitivity to changes in the volatility of the underlying asset. Volatility accounts for recent changes in price, historical changes in price, and future price moves. For a trading instrument, like an option, volatility is intended to capture the amount and speed at which the price moves up and down.





Key Takeaways

Kappa is the measurement of an option contract's price sensitivity to changes in the volatility of the underlying asset.Kappa, also called vega, is one of the four primary Greek risk measures, so-named after the Greek letters that denote them.Kappa measures risk by calculating the amount that an option contract's price changes in reaction to a 1% change in the implied volatility of the underlying asset.This set of risk measures—kappa, theta, gamma, delta—indicates how sensitive an option is to time-value decay, changes in implied volatility, and movements in the price of its underlying security.


   Understanding Kappa  

Kappa, also called vega, is one of the four primary Greek risk measures, so-named after the Greek letters that denote them. Since vega is not actually a Greek letter, (the "v" in vega stands for "volatility" just as the "t" in "theta" stands for "time") it is sometimes referred to as kappa.



The prices of options contracts are influenced by a number of different factors. The option Greeks are four ways of measuring factors that influence the price of options; traders use these measures when analyzing options. This set of risk measures—kappa, theta, gamma, delta—indicates how sensitive an option is to time-value decay, changes in implied volatility, and movements in the price of its underlying security.



Kappa measures risk by calculating the amount that an option contract's price changes in reaction to a 1% change in the implied volatility of the underlying asset. Kappa is higher the further away an option's expiration date is. Kappa falls as the expiration date approaches because the price of an option becomes more sensitive to the price volatility of the underlying asset as its expiration date gets closer. (Options that are expiring immediately have negative kappa.) This is because options that are expiring in the future have greater premiums assigned to them than those options that expire immediately.



When there are large price movements (that indicate volatility) in the underlying asset, kappa changes. Kappa falls as the option gets closer to its expiration date. Kappa measures the price change for each percentage point change in implied volatility. Implied volatility is a prediction; it may vary from the real future volatility. Implied volatility is calculated using a model that determines what the current market prices are estimating an underlying asset's future volatility will be.



Kappa can be calculated for individual options, as well as an options portfolio. When kappa is determined for an options portfolio, it is referred to as net kappa. Net kappa is determined by adding up the kappas of each individual position.



The other three options Greek are delta, gamma, and theta. Delta measures the impact of a change in the underlying asset's price. It is the ratio that compares the change in the price of an asset, usually marketable securities, to the corresponding change in the price of its derivative. Gamma measures the rate of change of delta; it is the rate of change in an option's delta per 1-point move in the underlying asset's price. Theta measures the impact on the price as time passes (its time decay).
Karl Marx (1818-1883) was a philosopher, author, social theorist, and economist. He is famous for his theories about capitalism, socialism, and communism.



Marx, in conjunction with Friedrich Engels, published The Communist Manifesto in 1848; later in life, he wrote Das Kapital (the first volume was published in Berlin in 1867; the second and third volumes were published posthumously in 1885 and 1894, respectively), which discussed the labor theory of value.





Key Takeaways

Karl Marx was a prominent thinker who wrote on topics related to economics, political economy, and society.Born in Germany, Marx spent much of his time in London, where he wrote many famous works, including The Communist Manifesto and Capital (Das Kapital).Marx often collaborated with long-time friend and social theorist Friedrich Engels.Marx is known for his revolutionary writings favoring socialism and a communist revolution.While Marxism and Marxian economics have been largely rejected by the mainstream today, many of Marx's critiques of capitalism remain relevant today.












Investopedia / Joshua Seong


   Early Life and Education  

Born in Trier, Prussia (now Germany), on May 5, 1818, Marx was the son of a successful Jewish lawyer who converted to Lutheranism before Marx's birth. Marx studied law in Bonn and Berlin, where he was introduced to the philosophy of G.W.F. Hegel.



He became involved in radicalism at a young age through the Young Hegelians, a group of students who criticized the political and religious establishments of the day. Marx received his doctorate from the University of Jena in 1841. His radical beliefs prevented him from securing a teaching position, so instead, he took a job as a journalist and later became the editor of Rheinische Zeitung, a liberal newspaper in Cologne.



After living in Prussia, Marx lived in France for some time, and that is where he met his lifelong friend Friedrich Engels. He was expelled from France and then lived briefly in Belgium before moving to London, where he spent the rest of his life with his wife.



Marx died of bronchitis and pleurisy in London on March 14, 1883, and was buried at Highgate Cemetery in London. His original grave was nondescript, but in 1954, the Communist Party of Great Britain unveiled a large tombstone, including a bust of Marx and the inscription "Workers of all Lands Unite," an Anglicized interpretation of the famous phrase in The Communist Manifesto: "Proletarians of all countries, unite!"


   Marx's Theories  

Marx was inspired by classical political economists such as Adam Smith and David Ricardo, while his own branch of economics, Marxian economics, is not favored among modern mainstream thought. Nevertheless, Marx's ideas have greatly impacted societies, most prominently in communist projects such as those in the USSR, China, and Cuba. Among modern thinkers, Marx is still very influential in the fields of sociology, political economy, and strands of heterodox economics.



In general, Marx claimed there are two major flaws inherent in capitalism that lead to the exploitation of workers by employers: the chaotic nature of free market competition and the extraction of surplus labor. Ultimately, Marx predicted that capitalism would eventually destroy itself as more people become relegated to working-class status, inequality rose, and competition would lead the rate of corporate profits to zero. This would lead, he surmised, to a revolution where production would be turned over to the working class as a whole.


  Exploitation and Surplus Value  

While many equate Karl Marx with socialism, his work on understanding capitalism as a social and economic system remains a valid critique in the modern era. In Das Kapital (Capital in English), Marx argues that society is composed of two main classes: Capitalists are the business owners who organize the process of production and who own the means of production such as factories, tools, and raw materials, and who are also entitled to any and all profits.



The other, much larger class is composed of labor (which Marx termed the "proletariat"). Laborers do not own or have any claim to the means of production, the finished products they work on, or any of the profits generated from sales of those products. Instead, labor works only in return for a monetary wage. Marx argued that because of this uneven arrangement, capitalists exploit workers.



This exploitation is the reason, according to Marx, that employers can generate profits: they extract a full day's worth of effort and production from workers but only pay them a smaller fraction of this value as wages. Marx termed this surplus value and argued that it was nefarious.


  Labor Theory of Value  

Like the other classical economists, Karl Marx believed in a labor theory of value (LTV) to explain relative differences in market prices. This theory stated that the value of a produced economic good can be measured objectively by the average number of labor hours required to produce it. In other words, if a table takes twice as long to make as a chair, then the table should be considered twice as valuable.



Marx understood the labor theory better than his predecessors (even Adam Smith) and contemporaries and presented a devastating intellectual challenge to laissez-faire economists in Das Kapital: If goods and services tend to be sold at their true objective labor values as measured in labor hours, how do any capitalists enjoy profits? It must mean, Marx concluded, that capitalists were underpaying or overworking, thereby exploiting laborers to drive down the cost of production.



While Marx's answer was eventually proved incorrect, and later economists adopted the subjective theory of value, his simple assertion was enough to show the weakness of the labor theory's logic and assumptions; Marx unintentionally helped fuel a revolution in economic thinking.


  Historical Materialism  

Another important theory developed by Marx is known as historical materialism. This theory posits that society at any given point in time is ordered by the type of technology used in production. Under industrial capitalism, society is so ordered, with capitalists organizing labor in factories or offices where they work for wages.



Prior to capitalism, Marx suggested that feudalism existed as a specific set of social relations between lord and peasant classes related to the hand-powered or animal-powered means of production prevalent at the time.


   Marx's Written Works  

During his lifetime, Karl Marx wrote and published no less than fifteen complete multi-volume books, along with numerous pamphlets, articles, and essays. He could often be found writing in the reading rooms at London's British Museum.



Perhaps his most famous work, The Communist Manifesto, summarizes Marx and Engels's theories about the nature of society and politics and is an attempt to explain the goals of Marxism and, later, socialism. When writing The Communist Manifesto, Marx and Engels explained how they thought capitalism was unsustainable and how the capitalist society that existed at the time of the writing would eventually be replaced by a socialist one.



Das Kapital (in English, Capital: A Critique of Political Economy) was a full and comprehensive three-volume critique of capitalism. By far the more academic work, it lays forth Marx's theories on commodities production, labor markets, the social division of labor, and a basic understanding of the rate of return to owners of capital. Marx died before the third volume was finished, which was published posthumously by Engels based largely on Marx's notes. Today, many of the ideas and critiques of capitalism remain relevant, such as the emergence of monopolistic mega-corporations, persistent unemployment, and the general struggle between workers and employers.






The exact origins of the term "capitalism" in English are unclear, and certainly, Marx was not the first to use the word "capitalism" in English. However, he contributed to the rise of its use and interest in the concept.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the English word was first used by author William Thackeray in 1854 in his novel The Newcomes, who intended it to mean a sense of concern about personal possessions and money in general. While it's unclear whether either Thackeray or Marx was aware of the other's work, both men meant the word to have a pejorative ring. Adam Smith also famously wrote about the capitalist economic system in his 1776 masterpiece, The Wealth of Nations, and Marx was well aware of Smith's writings.


   Contemporary Influence  

Marx's work laid the foundations for future communist leaders such as Vladimir Lenin and Josef Stalin. Operating from the premise that capitalism contained the seeds of its own destruction, his ideas formed the basis of Marxism and served as a theoretical base for communism.



Nearly everything Marx wrote was viewed through the lens of the common laborer. From Marx comes the idea that capitalist profits are possible because the value is "stolen" from the workers and transferred to employers.



Marxist ideas in their pure form have very few direct adherents in contemporary times; indeed, very few Western thinkers embraced Marxism after 1898, when economist Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk's Karl Marx and the Close of His System was first translated into English. In his damning rebuke, Böhm-Bawerk showed that Marx failed to incorporate capital markets or subjective values in his analysis, nullifying most of his more pronounced conclusions. Still, there are some lessons that even modern economic thinkers can learn from Marx.



Though he was the capitalist system's harshest critic, Marx understood that it was far more productive than previous or alternative economic systems. In Das Kapital, he wrote of "capitalist production" that combined "together of various processes into a social whole," which included developing new technologies.



He believed all countries should become capitalist and develop that productive capacity, and then workers would naturally revolt, leading to communism whereby the workers would become the dominant social class and collectively control the means of production. But, like Adam Smith and David Ricardo before him, Marx predicted that because of capitalism's relentless pursuit of profit by way of competition and technological progress to lower the costs of production, that the rate of profit in an economy would always be falling over time.


  Economic Change to Social Transformation  

Dr. James Bradford "Brad" DeLong, professor of economics at UC-Berkeley, wrote in 2011 that Marx's "primary contribution" to economic science actually came in a 10-paragraph stretch of The Communist Manifesto, in which he describes how economic growth causes shifts among social classes, often leading to a struggle for political power.



This underlies an often unappreciated aspect of economics: the emotions and political activity of the actors involved. A corollary of this argument was later made by French economist Thomas Piketty, who proposed that while nothing was wrong with income inequality economically, it could create blowback against capitalism among the people. Thus, there is a moral and anthropological consideration of any economic system. The idea that societal structure and transformations from one order to the next can be the result of technological change in how things are produced in an economy is known as historical materialism.




What Is Karl Marx's Main Theory?
Karl Marx’s theories on communism and capitalism formed the basis of Marxism. His key theories were a critique of capitalism and its shortcomings. Marx thought that the capitalistic system would inevitably destroy itself. The oppressed workers would become alienated and ultimately overthrow the owners to take control of the means of production themselves, ushering in a classless society.




What Is Karl Marx Best Known for?
Karl Marx is best known for his theories that led to the development of Marxism. His ideas also served as the basis for communism. His books, Das Kapital and The Communist Manifesto, formed the basis of Marxism.




What Is Marxism vs. Communism?
Marxism is a system of socioeconomic analysis, while communism is a form of economic production that extends to government or political movements. Marxism is a broad philosophy developed by Karl Marx in the second half of the 19th century that unifies social, political, and economic theory. It is mainly concerned with the battle between the working class and the ownership class and favors communism and socialism over capitalism.


   The Bottom Line  

Karl Marx remains controversial, but his writings still remain relevant today. Even as mainstream economics has relegated Marxism as a heterodox school of thought, Marx did have a lot to say about the capitalistic system of production and roundly critiqued it for generating social and wealth inequalities, negative externalities, and class struggle. Ultimately, Marx's predictions about the impending collapse of capitalism and the communist revolutions that would follow proved incorrect. This has led many to discount Marx and Marxian thought. Still, Marx's insights remain influential and inspiring to others.
What Is the Katie Couric Clause?  

The Katie Couric Clause was a slang term to refer to a controversial rule that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) considered implementing in 2006, known formally as the Executive Compensation and Related Party Disclosure clause.



The clause, which was ultimately not adopted, would have expanded on existing executive compensation rules, requiring companies to disclose the pay of up to three of the highest-paid non-executive employees at a company. The existing laws that the clause would have expanded upon require firms to report the salaries of CEOs, CFOs, and other high-ranking executive officers of public companies.



The Katie Couric Clause was so-called because it would have likely forced CBS to disclose the pay of Katie Couric, who became CBS's highest-paid newscaster in April 2006, with a reported salary of US $15 million over five years. Her deal with CBS followed a 15-year tenure with NBC where she co-hosted "The Today Show."





Key Takeaways

The Katie Couric Clause was a slang term used to describe a proposed Securities and Exchange Commission rule regarding the disclosure of executive compensation and the compensation of other select employees.Proposed in 2006, the rule would have required companies to publicly acknowledge the pay of up to three of the highest-paid employees at a company beyond the executive suite.The rule would have meant that CBS would have had to disclose the salary for Couric, at the time CBS's highest-paid newscaster.The rule received blowback from major media companies and Wall Street firms and was ultimately not adopted.The rule was proposed as an extension of already-existent executive compensation laws, which require disclosure of the compensation for CEOs and other key executives.Other regulations introduced in subsequent years, including Dodd-Frank in 2010, addressed the issue of executive compensation, necessitating greater transparency in terms of corporate spending.


   Understanding Katie Couric Clause  

Both major media companies, such as CBS, NBC, and the Walt Disney Co., and large Wall Street firms opposed the SEC's controversial proposal. Media companies and financial services firms were thought to be the types of firms most affected by the proposal since they often pay high salaries for employees who aren’t C-Suite executives.



Such firms are often reluctant to disclose detailed executive compensation information because they see it as an invasion of employees’ privacy, and also expose proprietary information that would enable competitors to poach their employees. While the employees in question would not have to be named, many believe that it would not be hard to attach a name to the details.



Current SEC rules demand that salaries of the top five executives in publicly traded companies be disclosed. If the Katie Couric clause had been adopted, companies would have had to disclose total compensation of up to three non-executive employees whose pay exceeds that of any of its top five managers. Supporters of this proposal say this rule would create greater transparency and give investors increased access to information, which should result in better-informed decisions.


   Current SEC Rules on Executive Compensation  

The Katie Couric Rule was not adopted by the SEC in 2006, but new regulations concerning the disclosure of information concerning executive compensation were required as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation, which was enacted after the fallout from the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank contained executive compensation-related provisions. While not all of those provisions have been approved by the SEC as of 2021, there are a few key ones that have been put in place.



For example, the SEC adopted new rules in 2015 requiring companies to disclose the ratio of pay between its chief executive officer (CEO) and its median employee. Also under current rules, a company must disclose the amount and type of compensation paid to its top five executives, specifically, its CEO, chief financial officer, and the three other executive officers who are the most highly compensated.



Other changes in SEC reporting requirements mean companies must include an "Executive Compensation Discussion and Analysis" section along with pay documentation in all SEC forms. The section must include an explanation of how the compensation was determined and what it includes.


   Special Considerations  

Supporters of executive compensation rules say they are necessary for corporate transparency, and give investors important information about a corporation's structure. In terms of the pay ratio rule, a high ratio of CEO to median worker pay may suggest that the board is overpaying for its executives. Disclosing the pay of the top five executives is seen as also providing clarity about whether the board is overpaying its executive and using its money wisely.



The CFA Institute, a global association of investment professionals, has advocated for an increase in disclosure of high-level executive compensation practices at companies as well as pay structures determined by performance-based metrics.



But many large corporations object to the series of provisions, arguing it will negatively impact their hiring practices and encourage firms to outsource their low-paying labor to services companies.



For example, shortly after the passage of Dodd-Frank in 2010, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA), with members among the largest broker-dealers, sent a notice to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) opposing proposed bank executive compensation rules, arguing that any such regulations would limit its members' ability to attract and hire the talent needed.
What Is the Kazakhstan National Fund?  

The Kazakhstan National Fund is a sovereign wealth fund for Kazakhstan that is operated by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.





Key Takeaways

The Kazakhstan National Fund is a sovereign wealth fund for Kazakhstan that is operated by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.The Kazakhstan National Fund was established in 2000, primarily to act as a stabilization fund to lessen the impact that volatility in oil, gas, and mineral prices have on the Republic of Kazakhstan.The Kazakhstan National Fund is financed from surplus revenues gained from taxes on the development of oil, gas, and mineral reserves.


   Understanding the Kazakhstan National Fund  

The Kazakhstan National Fund was established in 2000, primarily to act as a stabilization fund to lessen the impact that volatility in oil, gas, and mineral prices have on the Republic of Kazakhstan.



The Kazakhstan National Fund is financed from surplus revenues gained from taxes on the development of oil, gas and mineral reserves. The Kazakhstan National Bank lists assets for the fund at $59.8 billion as of January 2021. Some $123.6 billion of that total was in gold.﻿﻿ The fund has no website and issues no public reports on its activities. The Kazakhstan National Fund is a secretive organization, and little information can be found as to its governance, holdings or investment strategies.


   Kazakhstan National Fund's Assets Frozen  

In October 2017, Bank of New York Mellon (BNY), following a Belgian court order, froze $22.6 billion in assets held by Kazakhstan’s National Fund as part of a legal battle between the government and a Moldovan investor. Reuters reported that the freeze was connected to years-long political infighting in the country and the possibility of corruption associated with the Fund.﻿﻿



In January 2018, a Dutch court overturned the freeze but with several strings attached, and in April 2020 a British court, too, weighed in on the case but did not grant broad relief to the Kazakh government seeking to remove those concessions ordered by the Dutch court.﻿﻿ They deferred that decision to the original Belgian court, which heard the case in December of 2020 but has yet to reach a verdict as of February 2021.



At stake among all of these disputes are whether sovereign wealth funds are investment arms of governments or independent institutional investors. These kinds of funds, of which Norway's is the largest at over $1 trillion, hold more than $7 trillion worth of wealth spread all over the globe. As a result, the ultimate decision on this case is closely watched by governments around the world.
What Is the KBW Bank Index?  

The KBW Bank Index is a benchmark stock index of the banking sector. The index was first developed by the investment bank Keefe, Bruyette, and Woods (KBW), which specializes in the financial sector. It includes a weighting of 24 banking stocks selected as indicators of this industry group.



The stocks represent large U.S. national money center banks, regional banks, and thrift institutions.





Key Takeaways

KBW Bank Index tracks the stock prices of prominent banking companies in an attempt to be a bellwether for banking industry watchers.KBW Bank Index has been around since 1991.KBW Bank Index includes 24 stocks selected from the largest regional and nationwide banking companies.


   Understanding the KBW Bank Index  

The KBW index utilizes a float-adjusted modified-market capitalization-weighting method. The index components are chosen by a committee of five persons (4 KBW employees and one full-time employee of the Nasdaq exchange) that meet quarterly. Their selection criteria seek to replicate certain market, industry, and geographic segments, by selecting from among the largest banking firms that meet the initial eligibility criteria.



The index focuses specifically on banking and de-emphasizes components that would be heavily insurance-related or investment-oriented. For example, Goldman Sachs, Metlife, and Berkshire Hathaway are notably absent from its components, though these stocks are listed in the holdings of other similar indexes.


   Index Components  

As of May 2021, the individual index components included:



Bank of NY Mellon (BK)Bank of America (BAC)Capital One Financial (COF)Citigroup (C)Citizens Financial Group (CFG)Comerica (CMA)Fifth Third Bank (FITB)First Horizon (FHN)First Republic Bank (FRC)Huntington Bancshares (HBAN)JP Morgan Chase (JPM)Keycorp (KEY)M&T Bank (MTB)Northern Trust (NTRS)PNC Financial Services (PNC)People's United Financial (PBCT)Regions Financial (RF)Signature Bank (SBNY)State Street (STT)SVB Financial Group (SIVB)Truist Financial Corp (TFC)US Bancorp (USB)Wells Fargo & Co (WFC)Zion's Bancorp (ZION)


   History of the KBW Bank Index  

The index began its life at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, which was later purchased by Nasdaq. Since the index originated as part of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, some vendors still refer to it as the PHLX/KBW Bank Index. The index was set to an initial index value of 250 on October 21, 1991. Options began trading on September 21, 1992. Calculation and dissemination of the index's value happen once per second throughout the regular trading day under the symbol BKX.



For many years, the KBW Bank Index was the standard benchmark index for the banking sector in the stock market. It was also the only way to trade the broad banking sector thanks to the options market before the advent and proliferation of exchange-traded funds (ETFs). With so many other choices available to represent the sector, the index is now no longer the only representative for banks.



There are now ETF versions of the index available, including the Invesco KBW Bank ETF with the trading symbol KBWB. These ETFs attempt to track the underlying index by owning the same mix of component stocks, however, no ETF can achieve perfect correlation because of the fund's need to accommodate any redemption of shares.



According to Nasdaq, the Index Committee attempts to keep turnover at a minimum. The Committee evaluates the composition of the index on a quarterly basis in March, June, September, and December. Interim evaluations may take place after extraordinary circumstances. These circumstances include stock splits and certain spin-offs and rights issuances, and significant legal issues or a company's bankruptcy.


   Large Banks vs. Regional Banks  

Investors should understand that while the KBW Bank Index is a good representation of the banking sector, it only focuses on large-capitalization stocks. It does not include regional banks, which are typically somewhat smaller. Therefore, investors should analyze both the KBW Bank Index and a representative of the next tier in the banking sector. There is an ETF that tracks the regional index, the Invesco KBW Regional Bank Index under the ticker KBWR.
What Is Keep and Pay?  

Keep and pay refers to a type of bankruptcy exemption. It lets a person keep an asset such as a house or car, provided that the individual continues to make payments.





Key Takeaways

Keep and pay is a strategy to keep an asset while continuing to make payments on it, even after having declared bankruptcy.Keep-and-pay requires that the debtor or person filing for bankruptcy is able to keep up with payments for the asset.Rules regarding keep-and-pay vary by state.


   Understanding Keep and Pay  

Keep and pay is a bankruptcy strategy in which an individual who wants to keep an asset following a bankruptcy resolution agrees to follow a payment schedule and sets forth their intentions in court documents.



All exemptions in bankruptcy refer to assets the filer gets to retain. All other property that is nonexempt can be liquidated by the court to help settle the filer's outstanding debts.



Keep and pay prevents people from having a particular asset repossessed and possibly liquidated, but it sometimes requires them to file an official statement with the bankruptcy court that shows they have a plan to pay for the asset going forward. Typically, this plan must also get the approval of the affected creditor.


   How Keep and Pay Works  

Generally, creditors are open to keep and pay plans if it appears likely they will be able to collect on the entirety of the debt owed, rather than possibly settling for something less based on a court order. In addition, it can often eliminate hassles on the part of the creditor. 



For example, say a person files bankruptcy and owes a substantial amount on a home. The bank can eventually sell the property to recoup the remaining amount owed on the mortgage, but it could take time and considerable effort, and thus, added cost. If that seems likely, it could be advantageous for the bank to take the chance of getting repaid under a Keep-and-Pay agreement.



For each asset in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, for example, the filer typically is asked what they want to do with each valuable piece of property, including whether they wish to surrender it, retain and redeem it, keep it and pay what is owed over time, or do something else with it.﻿﻿



For this reason, the person filing can request to keep and pay for particular items. The court won’t always agree to such a request, however, many courts try to follow the filer’s wishes if they are made in good faith. Others have guidelines on what to do with assets based on the type of asset, its value, and the remaining amount owed.



As an example, guidelines could address whether or not an asset is illiquid, and cannot easily be sold to cover a person’s debts, or whether an asset is pertinent to a person's livelihood, such as a car that may be necessary for a person to get to and from work.


   Keep and Pay Rules  

Rules regarding keep and pay and various bankruptcy exemptions vary by state. Most filers must use the rules set forth by the state in which they live. However, a few states such as California have two sets of exemption rules—one under state law and the other a federal list of rules. Bankruptcy filers need to choose one set of rules or the other and use them consistently throughout the bankruptcy proceedings.



For property, for instance, many states set an exemption value. You can keep and pay if the property value is worth less than a threshold set by the exemption rules.



As an example, say a person filing for bankruptcy has a home worth $160,000, with an outstanding mortgage balance of $140,000, and $20,000 in equity. Their state of residence allows an exemption amount up to $175,000, which exceeds the value of the home. In this instance, the filer would be able to keep the home.



Conversely, if the home was worth $200,000 with the same mortgage balance, leaving $60,000 in equity, it would exceed the exemption threshold. This would require a court-appointed trustee to liquidate the property, pay the mortgage holder $140,000 from the proceeds, and to distribute the remaining funds to any additional creditors, prior to the filer receiving any of the equity.


   Example of Keep and Pay  

Sam has been terminated from employment and is unable to make timely mortgage payments. Sam's mortgage lender refuses to renegotiate the terms of the loan payment and has insinuated that it will seek to seize the property via foreclosure. Meanwhile, as other debts and expenses climb, Sam enters bankruptcy.



Right after filing for bankruptcy, Sam finds a new job that will provide enough income to make the mortgage payments, but with several cutbacks to previous lifestyle and amenities. In effect, Sam will have to live a more frugal life. Sam submits a plan to the bankruptcy court detailing a breakdown of the proposed new mortgage payments and expenses. The court approves this plan, and Sam gets to keep the house.
What Is a Keepwell Agreement?  

A keepwell agreement is a contract between a parent company and its subsidiary to maintain solvency and financial backing throughout the term set in the agreement. Keepwell agreements are also known as comfort letters.



When a subsidiary finds itself in a cash crunch and has trouble accessing financing to continue its operations, it can sign a keepwell agreement with its parent company for a set period of time.



Keepwell agreements not only help the subsidiary and its parent company, but they also boost confidence in shareholders and bondholders that the subsidiary will be able to meet its financial obligations and run smoothly. Suppliers that provide raw materials are also more likely to look at a troubled subsidiary more favorably if it has a keepwell agreement.






Keepwell agreements give confidence not just to lenders but also to a subsidiary's shareholders, bondholders, and suppliers.


   How a Keepwell Agreement Works  

Subsidiary companies enter into keepwell agreements to increase the creditworthiness of debt instruments and corporate borrowing. A keepwell agreement is a contract between a parent company and its subsidiary in which the parent company provides a written guarantee to keep the subsidiary solvent and in good financial health by maintaining certain financial ratios or equity levels. In effect, the parent company commits to providing all the subsidiary’s financing needs for a specified period of time.



The predetermined guarantee period depends on what both parties agree upon when the contract is drawn up. As long as the keepwell contract period is still active, the parent company will guarantee any interest payments and/or principal repayment obligations of the subsidiary. If the subsidiary runs into solvency issues, its bondholders and lenders have sufficient recourse to the parent firm.


   Keepwell Agreements and Creditworthiness  

Credit enhancement is a risk-reduction method whereby a company attempts to increase its creditworthiness to attract investors to its security offerings. Credit enhancement reduces the credit or default risk of a debt, thereby increasing the overall credit rating of an entity and lowering interest rates. For example, an issuer may use credit enhancement to improve the credit rating on its bonds. A keepwell agreement is one way to enhance a company’s credit is by obtaining third-party credit support.



Since a keepwell agreement enhances the subsidiary’s creditworthiness, lenders are more likely to approve loans for a subsidiary than for companies without them. Suppliers are also more willing to offer more favorable terms to companies with keepwell agreements. Due to the financial obligation placed on the parent company by a keepwell agreement, the subsidiary company may enjoy a better credit rating than it would without a signed keepwell agreement.





Key Takeaways

A keepwell agreement is a contract between a parent company and its subsidiary to maintain solvency and financial backing for a set period of time. These agreements give confidence to lenders, shareholders, bondholders, and suppliers that the subsidiary will not default and continue its operations.Subsidiary companies enter into keepwell agreements to increase the creditworthiness of debt instruments and corporate borrowing.


   Enforcing Keepwell Agreements  

Although a keepwell agreement indicates a parent’s willingness to provide support for its subsidiary, these agreements are not guarantees. The promise of enforcing these agreements is not a guarantee and cannot be legally invoked.



However, a keepwell agreement can be enforced by the bond trustees, acting on behalf of bondholders, if the subsidiary defaults on its bond payments.


   Example of Keepwell Agreement  

Let's say Computer Parts Inc. is a subsidiary of Laptop International. The company is going through a financial crunch and supplies are short. In order to continue production for its new line hard drives, Computer Parts Inc. needs to take out a loan of $2 million. This may be difficult because it has a lower credit rating.



In order to help keep production on track and keep the loan's interest rate as low as possible, Computer Parts Inc. can go into a keepwell agreement with its parent, Laptop International, to guarantee its financial solvency for the term of the loan.
What Is Keiretsu?  

Keiretsu is a Japanese term referring to a business network made up of different companies, including manufacturers, supply chain partners, distributors, and occasionally financiers. They work together, have close relationships, and sometimes take small equity stakes in each other, all the while remaining operationally independent. Translated literally, keiretsu means “headless combine."





Key Takeaways

Keiretsu is a Japanese term referring to a business network made up of different companies, including manufacturers, supply chain partners, distributors, and occasionally financiers.Keiretsus work together, have close relationships, and sometimes take small equity stakes in each other, all the while remaining operationally independent.Keiretsus rose to prominence after World War II and the destruction of the Japanese zaibatsu.A horizontal keiretsu is an alliance of different companies, led by a bank that provides them with finance.A vertical keiretsu refers to manufacturers, suppliers, and distributors partnering up to cut costs and become more efficient.


   Understanding Keiretsu  

Powerful families, known as zaibatsus, once ran the majority of Japan’s major industries. That all changed after World War II when the United States came in and busted up these structures. Zaibatsus were seen as monopolistic and undemocratic, reportedly buying politicians in exchange for contracts and using pricing mechanisms that exploited the poor. Faced with economic hardships after the war, Japanese companies responded by reorganizing themselves as keiretsus.



Japanese corporations value having close ties with one another. Working together, rather than keeping others at arm’s length, is believed to be mutually beneficial for all parties. In fact, decades after its formation, keiretsus still represent major parts of the country’s economy.



Keiretsu has even gone on to influence business practices in other countries, albeit in a looser form. In Japan, where companies are expected to cooperate, keiretsus are regulated by specific laws. Outside the country, the term generally refers to informal alliances between more than two organizations.



In 1996, academic Jeffrey Dyer wrote in Harvard Business Review that Chrysler’s teaming up with suppliers to cut the cost of manufacturing cars meant it had created an American keiretsu. Many other companies in the United States and Europe are viewed to have borrowed something from keiretsus, too.﻿﻿


   Types of Keiretsu  

The keiretsu system is traditionally structured along a horizontal or vertical integration model.



A horizontal keiretsu is characterized by an alliance of different companies from various sectors, including a bank. The bank is the centerpiece of the network and is responsible for providing the other companies with financial services.



The purpose of horizontal keiretsus is to distribute goods around the world. Keiretsus seek new markets for keiretsu companies, help establish keiretsu companies in other countries, and sign contracts with other international companies that supply commodities used in Japanese industry.



In contrast, a vertical keiretsu refers to manufacturers, suppliers, and distributors partnering up. With a common goal, they work together to cut costs and become more efficient. Vertical keiretsus are a group of companies within the horizontal keiretsu.



The automobile company Toyota is an example of a vertical keiretsu. Toyota relies on suppliers and manufacturers for parts; employees for production; real estate for dealerships; steel, plastics, and electronics suppliers for cars; and wholesalers. While these ancillary companies operate within the vertical keiretsu of Toyota, they are members of the larger horizontal keiretsu, (although much lower on the organizational chart).



Research has suggested that Toyota has benefitted from the trust, collaboration, and educational support that are hallmarks of the keiretsu system: Its supplier relationships are more open, international, and cost-efficient than ever before.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Keiretsu  

Working closely together can bring many benefits. Companies in the keiretsu can leverage each other’s expertise to become stronger and better; information shared among customers, suppliers, and employees within the keiretsu can lead to increased efficiency. As a result of this information-sharing, investment decisions can be made faster, and suppliers, employees, and customers know the purposes and goals of those investments.






The key to successful keiretsu-like partnerships is support, cooperation, trust, and goodwill. While it may not be intuitive, in a hypercompetitive, cost-obsessed environment, these relational elements are critical because they cut down on some of the hidden costs of arm’s-length supplier relationships that are characteristic of the Western business model.



Forming an alliance also limits the threat of competition and makes it more difficult for its members to be subject to takeover attempts by outsiders. In addition, the reduction of costs due to dealing with intra-keiretsu firms can increase efficiency within the supply chain. 



However, there are also several drawbacks. Critics point out that their large size makes it difficult for keiretsus to adjust quickly to market changes and that limited competition leads to inefficient practices. Another potential issue is easy access to capital. Close relationships with a bank might encourage a company to embark on risky, debt-fueled strategies that an outside institution would probably never help to finance.





Pros of Keiretsu

Working together can bring benefits
Leverage other company's expertise
Limits threat of competition
Increased efficiency within the supply chain



Cons of Keiretsu

Cannot adjust quickly to market conditions
Limited competition leads to inefficient practices
Easy access to capital can encourage risky behavior





   How to Engineer Your Own Keiretsu  

The keiretsu system can be a useful model for a company that wants to deepen its relationships with its suppliers in order to gain long-term benefits. In the West, companies typically have relationships with suppliers that are distinct from the keiretsu system in that they take an arm's length approach.



However, a few manufacturers in the West have engineered their own unique, hybrid sourcing programs that borrow certain elements from the keiretsu system. For example, Scania, the Swedish bus and truck maker, has tried to deepen its loyalties to its manufacturers in order to improve the company's supply chains. It has accomplished this by holding workshops for its suppliers on the Scania Production System, which emphasizes continuous improvement and lean production.



Scania has incorporated an additional element of keiretsu into its purchasing system: Suppliers identify with the hub company, and the hub company works with them to improve their processes and make them more competitive (although it doesn’t hold shares in them).



IKEA's approach to supplier relationships also resembles the structure of keiretsu. The company works to build committed partnerships with its suppliers based on mutual advantage, trusts its vendors with significant tasks, and collaborates with its vendors in order to maximize efficiency.



Companies interested in engineering their own form of a keiretsu should keep these general principles in mind.﻿﻿


  Incorporate Short-Term and Long-Term Thinking  

If you want to develop long-term relationships with suppliers, it's important that they are competitive today. You can work together with them to help them achieve this, and demonstrate your commitment to forming a lasting relationship by showing them that the benefits of cost-reduction strategies will be shared.﻿﻿


  Get to Know Your Suppliers  

There's no way you can improve a supplier's processes without first understanding them. You should visit suppliers' workplaces, and, instead of outsourcing all components, establish joint ventures with your suppliers on key parts.﻿﻿


  Build Trust With Your Suppliers  

You can build trust with your suppliers by communicating that the relationship is mutually beneficial: the relationship will help them improve their operations and become more competitive.﻿﻿


  Practice Explicit and Implicit Communication  

If you only emphasize explicit communication, it can lead to mistrust; if you only emphasize implicit communication, it can result in misunderstanding.﻿﻿


  Assess Your Portfolio of Suppliers  

Once you've identified your portfolio of suppliers, decide which ones are worth improving. You might ask which ones have the greatest potential to be globally competitive, and assign performance scores according to quality, cost, delivery, people, and development. It's important to keep in mind that suppliers that demonstrate a willingness to learn and understand the root causes of mistakes are the most likely to improve.﻿﻿


  Build Personal Relationships With Your Suppliers  

Cultivate personal relationships between your company and the management and the employees at your suppliers. Meet your suppliers and find ways to collaborate with them; perhaps this means shadowing your suppliers on the shop floor. This kind of relationship can cultivate a willingness on the part of your vendors to make suggestions for problem-solving.﻿﻿


  Give Suppliers Opportunities to Improve  

Rather than switching suppliers, if a supplier is underperforming, give them opportunities to show how they could improve.﻿﻿


  Involve Suppliers in Product Development  

Your suppliers' engineers should be involved in your development teams, in addition to implementing process improvement activities in their factories in order to increase your competitiveness across the supply chain.﻿﻿


   Example of Keiretsu  

Mitsubishi is the driving force behind perhaps the largest and best-known Japanese horizontal keiretsu. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi sits at the top of the keiretsu. Mitsubishi Motors and Mitsubishi Trust and Banking are also part of the core group, followed by Meiji Mutual Life Insurance Company, which provides insurance to all members.



Together they aim to help each other distribute goods all over the world. They may seek new markets for keiretsu companies, help incorporate keiretsu companies in other nations, and sign contracts with other companies around the globe to supply commodities used for the Japanese industry. As you might have already noticed, many companies within this keiretsu have "Mitsubishi" as part of their name.
What Is the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University?  

The Kelley School of Business is the business college of Indiana University. The school offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in many fields, including finance, accounting, marketing, and management. Kelley School of Business also offers master of business administration (MBA) programs, along with courses for working executives. It is constantly ranked among the top 25 business schools by U.S. News & World Report.





Key Takeaways

The Kelley School of Business at Indiana University is a high-ranking business school with campuses in Bloomington and Indianapolis.The school offers undergraduate, graduate, MBA, and doctorate degrees along with executive education and certificate programs in person and online.Kelley has more than 127,000 alumni worldwide including some of the top names in the business world.


   Understanding the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University  

The Kelley School of Business at Indiana University is a high-ranking business school with campuses in Bloomington, Indiana, and Indianapolis, Indiana. The school was established in 1920 out of the School of Commerce and Finance, which offered students business courses since 1916.



The school aims to uphold and pass on its values to its students. These include ethics, professionalism, innovation, collaboration, diversity, and inclusiveness. Its mission statement is to:



"Develop a diverse body of students who are citizens of the world and who have a positive impact on their organizations and the communities in which they live,Conduct and disseminate high-quality research that advances both business theory and practice, andServe, directly and indirectly, through instructional and research efforts, constituents and communities at all levels of society—local, national, and international."



The Kelley School of Business offers undergraduate, graduate, and doctorate programs, along with part- and full-time MBA and certificate programs and executive education for working professionals. Students have the option to take classes on campus or online. There are more than 15,000 students enrolled in programs at both campuses. The school boasts more than 127,000 alumni across the globe.






The Kelley School of Business at Indiana University is headed by Dean Ash Soni.


   Notable Alumni  

The business school has several notable alumni members who achieved success in the corporate world:



Marshall Armstrong chaired the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
John Chambers was the chief executive officer (CEO) of Cisco Systems, one of the largest computer software companies in the world
Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks, graduated from the school in 1981
Cheryl A. Bachelder once presided over KFC, the fast-food chain that specializes in fried chicken dishes



Several distinguished public servants also graduated from the Kelley School of Business. They include:



Evan Bayh III, former governor of Indiana and former U.S. senator
John C. Partee, governor of the U.S. Federal Reserve
Milton Wilson founder of the business schools of Howard University and Texas Southern University


   Programs Offered  

The Kelley School of Business offers students 30 different programs on its Bloomington and Indianapolis campuses as well as online at the undergraduate, graduate, and doctorate levels. MBA and certificate programs are also offered, including those for working executives and professionals.



The table below highlights some of the key disciplines offered to students.











Kelley School of Business at Indiana University Degree and Certificate Programs




 
Bloomington
Indianapolis 
Online


Undergraduate 
Accounting, Economic Consulting, Finance, Management, Real Estate, Sustainable Business 
Accounting, Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management,  



MBA
Business Analytics, Marketing, Supply Chain and Operations
Finance, Management and Entrepreneurship, Marketing, Supply Chain Management, Business of Medicine
Kelley Direct


Graduate 
Accounting, MS Finance, MS Healthcare Management
MS Accounting, MS Taxation



Doctorate
Accounting, Finance, Marketing, Organizational Behavior and HR Management




Certificate
Entrepreneurship, Business Foundations,
Real Estate, Venture Creation







Executives can earn certificates and degrees in business analytics, business management, and cyber security management among others.


   Rankings  

As noted above, the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University consistently ranks among the top business schools in the United States.



According to U.S. News & World Report, the school comes in the 22nd spot of best business schools in the United States. It ties with UNC Kenan-Flagler Business School in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. The school ties with Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University for 15th place in the part-time MBA category. It also ranks among the top 10 schools for accounting, business analytics, entrepreneurship, and information systems.


   Statistics and Starting Salaries  

According to Indiana University, its business program has a placement rate of 98% among graduates who enter the workforce or enroll in a post-graduate program.



The business school graduated 2,060 seniors between July 2021 and June 2022. Of those, 69% reported their status upon graduation. Of those graduating between 2021 and 2022, 1,392 students actively sought employment or enrollment in graduate school after graduation. This class accepted jobs in 31 states, the District of Columbia, and nine countries. Some of the top urban areas include Chicago, Indianapolis, New York, and San Francisco.



The average starting salary for graduates among all majors is $74,157. But it varies based on the type of program completed. For example:



Accounting majors have an average starting salary of $71,359 and a range of $30,000 to $200,000.Graduates with a finance major start with an average salary of $78,524, with a range of $30,000 to $200,000.Marketing majors start out at $65,368 and have a range of $36,920 to $112,500.




How Many Students Are Enrolled at Kelley School of Business?
As of the 2022-2023 school year, there are 15,000 students enrolled at Indiana University's Kelley School of Business through 30 programs in Bloomington, Indianapolis, and online around the world. 




How Old Is the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University?
Indiana University's business school is more than 100 years old. It was established in 1920 as the School of Commerce and Finance but later grew to become the Kelley School of Business.




What Is the Acceptance Rate at the Kelley School of Business?
The Kelley School of Business at Indiana University doesn't publish its acceptance rate. But according to U.S. News & World Report, the acceptance rate is believed to be around 35%.


   The Bottom Line  

Indiana University's Kelley School of Business has been around for more than a century and has produced CEOs of major companies, Federal Reserve governors, and a U.S. senator, It is one of the highest-ranked business schools in the country, coming in the 22nd spot on U.S. News & World Report's list of the best business schools. Its online counterpart, Kelley Direct, is tied for first place with UNC's program in Chapel Hill on U.S. News's list of the best online MBA programs.
What Is the Kellogg School of Management?  

The Kellogg School of Management is the graduate business school of Northwestern University. The institution was founded in 1908 and is located in Evanston, Illinois. The school is known for its focus on interdisciplinary learning and international exchange opportunities.



The school's Master of Business Administration (MBA) is very well respected and is commonly included among the 10 best programs in the United States by leading publications such as The Economist, Forbes, and U.S. News.





Key Takeaways

The Kellogg School of Management is a business school at Northwestern University in Illinois.It is considered one of the most prestigious business schools in the United States.Graduates from the Kellogg School of Management generally pursue careers in the management consulting, technology, and financial services sectors.


   Overview of the Kellogg School of Management  

The Kellogg School of Management was founded in 1908 as the School of Commerce. It was renamed the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management in 1979 after it received a significant donation from the John L. and Helen Kellogg Foundation.



Kellogg is known for its global footprint, with campuses in Germany, Canada, Israel, and China. The school also has campuses in Chicago and Miami. As one of the United States’ most well-respected business schools, competition for attendance is typically fierce, with the MBA program typically rejecting around 70% of applicants.



The school offers a range of MBA and postgraduate programs, undergraduate certificates, and a graduate degree in management studies. In addition to the full-time MBA program, which takes two years to complete, the school also offers a variety of MBA programs designed for working professionals who wish to study on a part-time basis as they continue to work. This includes their evening and weekend MBA programs and their Executive MBA program.






Notable graduates of Kellogg are Ted Phillips, former CEO and President of the Chicago Bears; Roslyn Brock, chair of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; and Cindy Axne, senior advisor at the U.S. Department of Agriculture.



Many business schools have created programs that prepare students for careers in the artificial intelligence (AI) industry. Kellogg is one of these schools and has called its degree "MBAi."


  Statistics  

The full-time MBA class size for the 2023-2024 school year was 503 students, composed of 38% international students. The average GPA for the class was 3.7, and the average GMAT score was 729. The school also accepts the GRE, with average scores of 162 for the verbal section and 163 for the quantitative section.



According to U.S. News and World Report, Kellogg received 4,187 applications for the 2023-2024 school year (228 of which were for the part-time program). There were 1,316 full-time (31.4%) and no part-time applicants accepted.


   Kellogg School's Reputation and Standing  

Kellogg graduates found employment principally in the management consulting, technology, and financial services sectors. Some of the top employers included McKinsey & Company, The Boston Consulting Group, Amazon, and Bain & Company. Kellogg School of Management MBA grads saw an average starting salary of $164,000 in 2023.



In 2023, the Kellogg School of Management’s full-time MBA program was rated the second-best program in the United States by U.S. News and World Report. 


   Costs to Attend Kellogg  

As of 2023, the costs for a one-year MBA at Kellogg include:



Tuition: $112,336Food and Housing:$26,400Books, supplies, other: $23,659Total: $162,395



The costs for the two-year MBA are (per year):



Tuition: $81,015Food and housing: $19,800Books, supplies, other: $19,617Total (one year): $120,432Total (two years): $240,864




Is a Kellogg MBA Worth It?
Kellogg's MBA is recognized globally and is in demand by many large or notable corporations and businesses. If you want to work for one of these companies, the program might be worth the cost, as you can recover the expenses within a few years. However, you can get a good business education at many other schools—but if you want one of the best educations around, the Kellogg MBA is worth it.




What GPA Do You Need to Get Into Kellogg?
There is no set GPA required by the school, but the higher your GPA, the better your chances. The average GPA for the class of 2024 is 3.7, so you'll need to be close to or above that.




Is Kellogg Better Than Harvard?
Whether one school is better than the other is subjective. Each school has its own teaching method, so it's best to compare the curriculums and costs to learn more about them.


   The Bottom Line  

The Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University is one of the top-rated graduate business schools in the U.S. It is expensive to attend, but the education, connections, and employment opportunities make it an attractive option for professionals wanting a reputable MBA.
What Is Kelly Criterion?  

The Kelly criterion is a mathematical formula relating to the long-term growth of capital developed by John L. Kelly Jr. while working at AT&T's Bell Laboratories. It is used to determine how much to invest in a given asset, in order to maximize wealth growth over time.





Key Takeaways

Although used for investing and other applications, the Kelly Criterion formula was originally presented as a system for gambling.The Kelly Criterion was formally derived by John Kelly Jr., a scientist at AT&T's Bell Laboratories.The formula is used to determine the optimal amount of money to put into a single trade or bet. Several famous investors, including Warren Buffett and Bill Gross, are said to have used the formula for their own investment strategies. Some argue that an individual investor's constraints can affect the formula's usefulness.


   Understanding Kelly Criterion  

The Kelly criterion is currently used by gamblers and investors for risk and money management purposes, to determine what percentage of their bankroll/capital should be used in each bet/trade to maximize long-term growth.



After being published in 1956, the Kelly criterion was picked up quickly by gamblers who were able to apply the formula to horse racing. It was not until later that the formula was applied to investing. More recently, the strategy has seen a renaissance, in response to claims that legendary investors Warren Buffett and Bill Gross use a variant of the Kelly criterion.



The formula is used by investors who want to trade with the objective of growing capital, and it assumes that the investor will reinvest profits and put them at risk for future trades. The goal of the formula is to determine the optimal amount to put into any one trade.



There are two key components to the formula for the Kelly criterion:



Winning probability factor (W): the probability a trade will have a positive return.Win/loss ratio (R): This will be equal to the total positive trade amounts, divided by the total negative trading amounts.



The result of the formula will tell investors what percentage of their total capital they should apply to each investment.



The term is often also called the Kelly strategy, Kelly formula, or Kelly bet, and the formula is as follows:


















K


e


l


l


y


 


%


=


W


−


[




(


1


−


W


)



R



]
















where:





















K


e


l


l


y


 


%


=









 Percent of investor’s capital to put into
















 a single trade





















W


=


Historical win percentage of trading system
















R


=


Trader’s historical win/loss ratio







\begin{aligned} &Kelly~\% = W - \Big[\dfrac{(1-W)}{R}\Big] \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\begin{aligned} Kelly~\% = &\text{ Percent of investor's capital to put into}\\ &\text{ a single trade} \end{aligned}\\ &W = \text{Historical win percentage of trading system}\\ &R = \text{Trader's historical win/loss ratio}\\ \end{aligned}


​Kelly %=W−[R(1−W)​]where:Kelly %=​ Percent of investor’s capital to put into a single trade​W=Historical win percentage of trading systemR=Trader’s historical win/loss ratio​






While the Kelly Criterion is useful for some investors, it is important to consider the interests of diversification as well. Many investors would be wary about putting their savings into a single asset–even if the formula suggests a high probability of success.


   Kelly Criterion Limitations  

The Kelly Criterion formula is not without its share of skeptics. Although the strategy's promise of outperforming all others, in the long run, looks compelling, some economists have argued against it—primarily because an individual's specific investing constraints may override the desire for optimal growth rate.



In reality, an investor's constraints, whether self-imposed or not, are a significant factor in decision-making capability. The conventional alternative includes Expected Utility Theory, which asserts that bets should be sized to maximize the expected utility of outcomes.




What Is the Kelly Criterion?
The Kelly Criterion is a formula used to determine the optimal size of a bet when the expected returns are known. According to the formula, the optimal bet is determined by the formulaK= W - (1 - W)/R—where K is a percentage of the bettor's bankroll, W is the probability of a favorable return, and R is the ratio of average wins to average losses.




Who Created the Kelly Criteria?
The Kelly Criteria was originally created by John Kelly, while working at AT&T's Bell Laboratories. It was first adopted by gamblers to determine how much to bet on horse races, and later adapted by some investors.




How Do I Find My Win Probability With the Kelly Criterion?
Unlike gambling, there is no truly objective way to calculate the probability that an investment will have a positive return. Most investors using the Kelly Criterion try to estimate this value based on their historical trades: simply check a spreadsheet of your last 50 or 60 trades (available through your broker) and count how many of them had positive returns.




How Do You Input Odds Into the Kelly Criterion?
In order to enter odds into the Kelly Criterion, one first needs to determine W, the probability of a favorable return, and R, the size of the average win divided by the size of the average loss. For investing purposes, the easiest way to estimate these percentages is from the investor's recent investment returns. These figures are then entered into the formulaK= W- (1-W) / R—where K represents the percentage of the investor's bankroll that they should invest.




What Is Better than the Kelly Criterion?
While there are many investors who integrate the Kelly Criterion into successful moneymaking strategies, it is not foolproof and can lead to unexpected losses. Many investors have specific investment goals, such as saving for retirement, that are not well-served by seeking optimal returns. Some economists have argued that these constraints make the formula less suitable for many investors.




How Are the Black-Scholes Model, the Kelly Criterion, and the Kalman Filter Related?
The Black-Scholes Model, Kelly Criterion, and the Kalman Filter are all mathematical systems that can be used to estimate investment returns when some key variables depend on unknown probabilities. The Black-Scholes model is used to calculate the theoretical value of options contracts, based upon their time to maturity and other factors.The Kelly Criterion is used to determine the optimal size of an investment, based on the probability and expected size of a win or loss.The Kalman Filter is used to estimate the value of unknown variables in a dynamic state, where statistical noise and uncertainties make precise measurements impossible.




What Is a Good Kelly Ratio?
While some believers in the Kelly Criterion will use the formula as described, there are also drawbacks to placing a very large portion of one's portfolio in a single asset. In the interest of diversification, an investor should think twice about investing more than 20% of their bankroll in a single investment–even if the Kelly Criterion suggests a higher percentage.
What Is the Keltner Channel?  

Keltner Channels are volatility-based bands that are placed on either side of an asset's price and can aid in determining the direction of a trend.



The Keltner channel uses the average-true range (ATR) or volatility, with breaks above or below the top and bottom barriers signaling a continuation.





Key Takeaways

Keltner Channels are volatility-based bands that are placed on either side of an asset's price and can aid in determining the direction of a trend.The exponential moving average (EMA) of a Keltner Channel is typically 20 periods, although this can be adjusted if desired.The upper and lower bands are typically set two times the average true range (ATR) above and below the EMA, although the multiplier can also be adjusted based on personal preference.Price reaching the upper Keltner Channel band is bullish, while reaching the lower band is bearish.The angle of the Keltner Channel also aids in identifying the trend direction. The price may also oscillate between the upper and lower Keltner Channel bands, which can be interpreted as resistance and support levels.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Understanding the Keltner Channel  

The Keltner Channel was first introduced by Chester Keltner in the 1960s. The original formula used simple moving averages (SMA) and the high-low price range to calculate the bands. In the 1980s, a new formula was introduced that used average true range (ATR). The ATR method is commonly used today.



The Keltner Channel is a volatility-based technical indicator composed of three separate lines. The middle line is an exponential moving average (EMA) of the price. Additional lines are placed above and below the EMA. The upper band is typically set two times the ATR above the EMA, and the lower band is typically set two times the ATR below the EMA. The bands expand and contract as volatility (measured by ATR) expands and contracts.



Since most price action will be encompassed within the upper and lower bands (the channel), moves outside the channel can signal trend changes or an acceleration of the trend. The direction of the channel, such as up, down, or sideways, can also aid in identifying the trend direction of the asset.


   Keltner Channel Methods  

Keltner Channels have multiple uses and how they are used will largely depend on the settings a trader uses. A longer EMA will mean more lag in the indicator, so the channels won't respond as quickly to price changes. A shorter EMA will mean the bands react quickly to price changes but will make it harder to identify the true trend direction.



A bigger multiplier of the ATR to create the bands will mean a larger channel. The price will hit the bands less often. A smaller multiplier means the bands will be closer together and the price will reach or exceed the bands more often.



Traders can set up their Keltner Channels any way they like, with the following potential uses in mind:



The angle of the channel helps to identify trend direction. A rising channel means the price has been rising, while a falling or sideways channel indicates the price has been falling or moving sideways, respectively.
A price move above the upper band shows price strength. This is another indication that an uptrend is in play, especially if the channel is angled upwards.
A drop below the lower band shows price weakness. This is evidence of a downtrend, especially if the channel is angled downward.
If the price is continually hitting the upper band, but not the lower, when the price does finally reach the lower band it could be a sign that the uptrend is losing momentum.
If the price is constantly hitting the lower band, but not the upper, when the price does finally reach the upper band it could be a signal that the downtrend is near an end.
The price may also oscillate between the upper and lower bands. In cases like these, traders may use the bands as support and resistance. They may look to buy when the price reaches the lower band and then starts to move higher again and may look to sell or short after the price starts to fall again after reaching the upper band.
After a sideways period, if the price breaks above or below the channel and the channel starts to angle the same way, that may signal that a new trend is underway in that breakout direction.


   Keltner Channel Calculation  
















Keltner Channel Middle Line


=


E


M


A
















Keltner Channel Upper Band


=


E


M


A


+


2


∗


A


T


R
















Keltner Channel Lower Band


=


E


M


A


−


2


∗


A


T


R
















where:
















E


M


A


=


Exponential moving average (typically over 20 periods)
















A


T


R


=


Average True Range (typically over 10 or 20 periods)







\begin{aligned} &\text{Keltner Channel Middle Line} = EMA\\ &\text{Keltner Channel Upper Band} = EMA + 2*ATR\\ &\text{Keltner Channel Lower Band} = EMA - 2*ATR\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EMA = \text{Exponential moving average (typically over 20 periods)}\\ &ATR = \text{Average True Range (typically over 10 or 20 periods)} \end{aligned}


​Keltner Channel Middle Line=EMAKeltner Channel Upper Band=EMA+2∗ATRKeltner Channel Lower Band=EMA−2∗ATRwhere:EMA=Exponential moving average (typically over 20 periods)ATR=Average True Range (typically over 10 or 20 periods)​



Calculate the EMA for the asset, based on the last 20 periods or the number of periods desired.
Calculate the ATR of the asset, based on the last 20 periods or the number of periods desired.
Multiply the ATR by two (or the multiplier desired) and then add that number to the EMA value to get the upper band value.
Multiply the ATR by two (or desired multiplier) and then subtract that number from the EMA to get the lower band value.
Repeat all steps after each period ends.


   Keltner Channels vs. Bollinger Bands  

These two indicators are quite similar. Keltner Channels use ATR to calculate the upper and lower bands while Bollinger Bands use standard deviation instead.



The interpretation of the indicators is similar, although since the calculations are different the two indicators may provide slightly different information or trade signals.






This indicator is most useful in strongly trending markets when the price is making higher highs and higher lows for an uptrend, or lower highs and lower lows for a downtrend.


   Keltner Channel Limitations  

The usefulness of the Keltner Channels largely depends on the settings used. Traders first need to decide how they want to use the indicator and then set it up to help accomplish that purpose. Some of the uses of Keltner Channels, addressed above, won't work if the bands are too narrow or too far apart.



While Keltner Channels can help identify trend direction, and even provide some trade signals, they are best used in conjunction with price action analysis, fundamentals if trading for the long term, and other technical indicators.



The bands may also not act as support or resistance and they may seem to have little forecasting ability at all. This could be due to the settings chosen, but there is also no evidence that the price moving two ATRs or hitting one of the bands will result in a trading opportunity or something significant happening.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  What is the Keltner Channel used for?  

The Keltner Channel is used to identify trade opportunities in swing action as prices move within an upper and lower band.


  Who was Chester Keltner?  

The Keltner Channels were originally developed by market technician Chester Keltner in his 1960 book How to Make Money in Commodities. Keltner dies in 1998 at the age of 89.


  What is the difference between the Keltner Channel and Bollinger bands?  

Both technical indicators are similar; however, the Keltner channel utilizes average true range (ATR) while Bollinger bands use standard deviation.


  Are Keltner Channels or Bollinger bands a better metric?  

Both metrics are useful, but for producing different signals. Like Bollinger Bands®, Keltner Channel signals are produced when the price action breaks above or below the channel bands. Here, however, as the price action breaks above or below the top and bottom barriers, a continuation is favored over a retracement back to the median or opposite barrier.


  What is a Keltner Channel strategy?  

If the price action breaks above the band, the trader should consider initiating long positions while liquidating short positions. If the price action breaks below the band, the trader should consider initiating short positions while exiting long or buy positions.
Who Was Kenneth Arrow?  

Kenneth Arrow (1921-2017) was an American neoclassical economist who won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics along with John Hicks in 1972 for his contributions to general equilibrium analysis and welfare economics.



Arrow's research has also explored the social choice theory, endogenous growth theory, collective decision making, the economics of information, and the economics of racial discrimination, among other topics.





Key Takeaways

Kenneth Arrow was a neoclassical economist noted for his wide-ranging contributions to microeconomic and macroeconomic theory. Arrow was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1972 for his work in general equilibrium and welfare economics.Arrow's major contributions to economic theory include the advances in social choice theory, most notably Arrow's impossibility theorem.


   Understanding Kenneth Arrow  

Born in New York City in 1921, Kenneth Arrow taught at Stanford University, Harvard, and the University of Chicago. He earned his Ph.D. from Columbia University, with a dissertation that discussed his theorem called the General Impossibility Theorem. Arrow determined in this theorem that results could not be decided fairly during an election. That's because, he stated, ideal voting methods did not exist when there are more than two candidates trying to satisfy certain criteria.



Arrow outlined the criteria as follows:



Nondictatorship: One person shouldn't be the deciding factor. This means everyone's wishes should be considered.Individual sovereignty: Voters should have the ability to order their choices any way they choose. They should also be able to mark down if they feel undecided or if there's a tie.Unanimity: If every individual prefers one candidate over another, then the group ranking should do the same.Freedom and independence from irrelevant alternatives: If one option is removed, then results for the others shouldn't change. So if the first candidate is leading and the third candidate drops out, the first candidate should still be ahead of the second.Uniqueness of group rank: Regardless of the preferences, the result should be the same.



The application of Arrow's General Impossibility Theorem has gone beyond democracy and election results. It has been used for both welfare economics and (social) justice, and linked to the liberal paradox, which was developed by economist Amartya Sen. According to Sen and his paradox, there is generally a conflict between the distribution of goods and services in a society, and individual freedom, as both cannot exist at the same time.



Arrow later published a book on the same subject. Arrow is also known as one of the first economists to recognize the so-called learning curve.


   Legacy of Kenneth Arrow  

Arrow’s theoretical insight has proven its importance over the decades, but he contended that his conclusions about the workings of competitive markets held true only under ideal—that is to say, unrealistic—assumptions. These assumptions ruled out the existence of third-party effects. An example of such an effect would be the idea that the sale of a product by Harry to Joe would not affect the well-being of Sally. However, this idea is routinely violated in the real world by the sale of products that harm the environment, among other effects.



Arrow's later research translated simple ideas into elegant mathematics, which other economists extended into unanticipated directions. One of those notions was “learning by doing,” an idea that Arrow examined in the early 1960s. The basic idea was that the more a company produced, the smarter it got. Decades later, economists incorporated this idea into sophisticated theories of “endogenous growth,” which state that economic growth depends on internal company policies that promote innovation and education.



Kenneth Arrow died on Feb. 21, 2017.
Kenneth I. Chenault is a business executive who works in the financial services industry. Chenault is best known for the time he spent as chair and chief executive officer (CEO) of American Express (AXP).



Chenault started working with the company in 1981, where he moved up the ranks to lead the company, becoming one of the first African Americans to lead a major company. Mr. Chenault left the company after 37 years and joined venture capital firm General Catalyst in 2018. He also sits on the board of a number of other companies, including Airbnb and Berkshire Hathaway.





Key Takeaways

Kenneth I. Chenault is a business executive known for his role as chair and CEO of American Express.Chenault worked with American Express between 1981 and 2018.Mr. Chenault was only one of three African-Americans to serve as a CEO of a Fortune 500 company at the time that he left the company.Chenault joined venture capital firm General Catalyst in 2018 after stepping down from American Express.He sits on the board of a number of companies, including Airbnb and Berkshire Hathaway.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Early Life and Education  

Kenneth I. Chenault was born in New York in 1951 and earned his undergraduate degree from Bowdoin College and his JD from Harvard Law School.



He began his career as an associate with Rogers & Wells then worked as a management consultant for Bain & Company before joining American Express as director of strategic planning in September 1981.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  American Express  

Chenault worked with American Express in a number of different areas since he joined the company in 1981. He became president of the consumer card group in 1989, then assumed the role of president of travel-related services in 1993.



Two years later, he was named vice president chair of the company. Chenault served as the company's president and chief operating officer (COO) in 1997 before taking over as chair and CEO in 2001. He became one of the first African Americans to head a Fortune 500 company.



In the fall of 2017, Chenault announced that he would be leaving American Express in February 2018.


  2008 Financial Crisis  

In 2008, with the global credit crisis, American Express was facing headwinds as the world was contracting.



The Federal Reserve System approved the company's application to become a bank holding company. This allowed American Express to receive emergency financing from the TARP program.


  Diversity Leadership  

At the time of his departure as American Express CEO, Chenault was only one of three African-Americans to serve as a CEO of a Fortune 500 company. He is also the first African-American to serve on the board at Meta (formerly Facebook).



Chenault often addresses the need for diversity in the corporate world, citing upper management's lack of seeking out diverse candidates rather than there being a lack of talent.



In 2020, Chenault co-founded OneTen, a group of top executives looking to hire one million Black Americans by 2030 into living-wage jobs.


  Later Career  

Upon his departure from American Express, Mr. Chenault accepted the position of chair and managing partner of General Catalyst, a venture capital firm that makes growth and early-stage investments in companies like Warby Parker, Stripe, Airbnb, and Snapchat. Chenault's decision to enter the Silicon Valley market was due to changes and maturation in the digital space.



Chenault joined the boards of several companies, including Airbnb (ABNB) and Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A/BRK.B). He also served as a board member at IBM and is a board member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He lives in New Rochelle, New York, with his wife and children.




What Is Kenneth Chenault Best Known for?
Kenneth I. Chenault is best known for being Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of American Express from 2001 to 2018. He was only the third Black American CEO of a Fortune 500 company.




Who Is the CEO of American Express?
After Kenneth I. Chenault retired as CEO of American Express in 2018, Stephen Squeri, a former Vice Chairman of the company, took over as CEO.




What Happened to Kenneth Chenault?
Upon his retirement as CEO of American Express, Kenneth Chenault accepted a position as chair and managing partner of venture capital firm General Catalyst. He also became a board member for several major companies.


   The Bottom Line  

Kenneth Chenault is a business leader and former CEO of American Express who, at the time of his departure from the company in 2018, was one of only three Fortune 500 CEOs who were African-American.



During his time at the helm of American Express, Kenneth Chenault helped increase the company's market share by expanding its customer base. Chenault achieved this by offering credit cards in addition to charge cards and adding membership rewards programs.



Chenault is also a member of the boards of several notable companies and is the managing partner for a venture capital firm.
What Is the Kenney Rule?  

Kenney rule refers to a ratio that sets a target of unearned premiums to an insurer's policyholders’ surplus of 2-to-1. Developed by Roger Kenney, it helps determine and reduce the risk of an insurance company's insolvency. The rule is commonly used by companies that write property and casualty insurance. Regulators can use the Kenney rule to an insurer's ability to pay out claims and remain solvent.





Key Takeaways

The Kenney Rule sets a target of unearned premiums to an insurer's policyholders’ surplus of a 2-to-1 ratio.The Kenny Rule states that the ratio of policyholders’ surplus to its unearned premium reserve indicates the strength of one insurance company relative to another.A higher policyholders’ surplus relative to unearned premium means an insurer is financially strong.


   Understanding the Kenney Rule  

The Kenney rule is named after Roger Kenney, an expert in insurance finances who published the book Fundamentals of Fire and Casualty Insurance Strength in 1949. While Kenney’s focus was on underwriting property insurance policies, the rule has been adapted to insurers who underwrite other types of policies, including liability insurance.



This rule, also called the Kenney ratio, is a guiding principle used by insurance companies. The ratio varies according to the insurance lines and is still commonly used in the property and casualty segment of the industry. The common ratio is traditionally considered to be 2-to-1 of net premiums to surplus. Specific segments, such as liability insurance, use a slightly different ratio—3-to-1.



But what does this all mean? The Kenney rule states that the ratio of policyholders’ surplus to its unearned premium reserve is an indicator of the strength of one insurance company relative to another. The policyholders’ surplus represents the insurer’s net assets, comprised of capital, reserves, and surplus.



The unearned premium represents the liability that is still unaccounted for by the insurer. Having a higher policyholders’ surplus relative to unearned premium means that the insurer is more robust financially. A lower policyholders’ surplus to unearned premiums implies the opposite—that the company is financially unstable.






Having a ratio that's too high may indicate that an insurance company isn't generating enough business.


   Special Considerations  

There is no one-size-fits-all standard for a Kenney rule ratio that is considered good or acceptable. The type of policy determines what is regarded as a healthy Kenney rule ratio. Policies that do not provide extended coverage or those that don't have an adjusted coverage date are easier to account for because incidents occurring before or after the policies' effective period are no longer covered.



Insurance companies want to make sure they have enough of a cushion to cover any liabilities associated with the policies they underwrite. But that doesn't mean a high Kenney ratio is always a good idea. That's because a very high surplus to liability ratio represents an opportunity cost—the benefits that the company may miss out on by having too much cash on hand in its reserves. Here's why.



If the insurer is in a relatively low-risk environment and does not underwrite many policies, it can have a high ratio and be forgoing future additions to its surplus. This is because it is not taking on new business.



Ideally, an insurer should strive to achieve a ratio that strikes the perfect balance between the two, generating business and maintaining operational growth while still accumulating a sufficient cushion to protect them against potential claims. Again, the exact ratio varies depending on the type of policy involved.
What Is a Keogh Plan?  

"Keogh plan" is a term used to describe qualified plans that cover the self-employed. This includes defined-benefit plans and defined-contribution plans, though most plans are set as the latter. Contributions are generally tax-deductible up to a certain percentage of annual income, with applicable absolute limits in U.S. dollar terms, which the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) can change from year to year.





Key Takeaways

"Keogh plan" is a term used to describe tax-deferred pension plans—either defined-benefit or defined-contribution—used by self-employed individuals.Keogh plans have more administrative burdens and higher upkeep costs than Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) or 401(k) plans, but the contribution limits are higher, making Keogh plans a popular option for many high-income business owners.Because current tax retirement laws do not set apart incorporated and self-employed plan sponsors, the term "Keogh plan" is rarely ever used.


   Understanding the Keogh Plan  

Keogh plans are the same qualified plans other small businesses can use: the defined-contribution plan, which include profit-sharing plans and money purchase plans, and the defined-benefit plan. However, the IRS calls them Keogh plans if they cover a self-employed individual.



Keogh plans can invest in the same set of securities as 401(k)s and IRAs, including stocks, bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs), and annuities.



The term comes from U.S. Representative Eugene Keogh, who was instrumental in passing the Self-Employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962. Because the act was passed to ensure the self-employed had access to retirement plans, any plans designed for them became known as Keogh plans. However, the distinction between corporate and other retirement plan sponsors was removed when the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 was passed.






As with other qualified retirement accounts, funds in a Keogh plan can be accessed as early as age 59½, and withdrawals must begin by age 73.


   Types of Keogh Plans  
  Qualified Defined-Contribution Plans  

Keogh plans can be set up as qualified defined-contribution plans, in which the contributions are made on a regular basis up to a limit. Profit-sharing plans are one of the two types of Keogh plans that allow a business to contribute up to $66,000 as of 2023. A business does not have to generate profits to set aside money for this type of plan.



Money purchase plans are less flexible compared to profit-sharing plans and require a business to contribute a fixed percentage of its income every year that is specified in plan documents. If a company alters its fixed percentage, it may face penalties. The contribution limit for 2023 for money purchase plans is set at 25% of annual compensation or $66,000, whichever is lower.


  Qualified Defined-Benefit Plans  

Qualified defined-benefit plans state the annual benefits to be received at retirement, and these benefits are typically based on salary and years of employment. Contributions towards defined-benefit Keogh plans are based on stated benefits and other factors, such as age and expected returns on plan assets. For 2023, the maximum annual benefit is $265,000 or 100% of the employee's compensation, whichever is lower.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Keogh Plans  

Keogh plans have more administrative burdens and higher upkeep costs than Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) or 401(k) plans.



The key advantage to Keogh plans is that they have higher contribution limits, making them a popular option for many high-income business owners.




What Is the Difference Between a Keogh and IRA?
Keogh plans are designed for the self-employed. While the self-employed can contribute to an IRA, Keogh plans have much higher contribution limits.




Who Is Eligible for a Keogh Plan?
Keogh plans are for the self-employed, so you can enroll in one if you're a sole proprietor or work for yourself.




Is a Keogh the Same as a solo 401(k)?
A solo 401(k)—also called a one-participant 401(k)—is a regular 401(k) with a special calculation for a sole proprietor or small business with no employees. A Keogh plan has much higher contribution limits than a solo 401(k).


   The Bottom Line  

A Keogh plan is a retirement plan for the self-employed or unincorporated small businesses. They are generally defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans.



Keogh plans can invest in the same instruments as other types of retirement plans, such as stocks, bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs), and annuities.
What Is the Kenyan Shilling (KES)?  

The Kenyan shilling (KES) is the official currency of the Republic of Kenya. It is used in Kenya, the Sudan, and Somalia. However, Sudan and Somalia have their own official currency, which is the Somali Shilling and the Sudanese Pound. The Kenyan 890p-' shilling is further divided into 100 cents. Prices often include the abbreviation KSh, as in “100 KSh” to refer to 100 shillings. KES is the foreign exchange (FX) trading symbol.





Key Takeaways

The Kenyan shilling (KES) is the national currency of the African nations of Kenya, Sudan, and Somalia.KES remains one of the most stable currencies in east Africa.KES circulates in nearby countries as a more stable option to store wealth than the local currencies.


   Understanding the Kenyan Shilling (KES)  

In 2009, the KES/USD exchange rate had reached approximately 75 shillings per U.S. dollar, but over the next several years weakened to a rate of approximately 104 shillings per dollar in 2015 and again in 2017. Since 2016, the Kenyan shilling has hovered around the 100 mark against the dollar as concerns grow around the amount of public debt Kenya has taken on over the years. As of Sep. 1, 2022, USD $1 is equal to roughly 120 KES.



The Kenyan shilling is among the most stable currencies in east Africa. In fact, it often circulates in bordering countries such as Sudan and Somalia. Although less volatile than other regional currencies, the exchange rate for the Kenyan shilling has generally weakened relative to the U.S. dollar over the past decade.



The Kenyan shilling was first introduced in 1966 to replace the East African shilling. That currency had circulated in British-controlled areas of east Africa from the 1920s until the early 1960s when Kenya (and other African countries) gained independence from British rule. Because of recent changes to Kenya’s constitution forbidding portraits of individual people, the country began to issue new banknotes and coins in 2018.



The Central Bank of Kenya manages the nation’s currency and allows its exchange rate to float freely against others in the global forex market. The central bank operates under a mandate to sustain price stability, maintain liquidity in the country's financial system, and support growth and employment.


   KES and Kenya's Economy  

The relative valuation of a currency such as the Kenyan shilling against other currencies depends, to no small extent, on the desire of individuals and organizations to hold assets denominated in shillings. This is partly influenced by how other trading partners view Kenya’s potential for economic growth and stability.



According to the World Bank, while Kenya’s economy had been stagnant in recent years, the annual growth rate for the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) has increased, reaching 5.8% in 2016. That yearly growth rate ranks Kenya as one of the fastest-growing economies in Sub-Saharan Africa and only reached 5.4% in 2019. Kenya's GDP growth is due, in large part, to an increase in tourism and investment in the nation’s infrastructure.



The World Bank data also shows that gross national income per capita (measured in U.S. dollars) in Kenya doubled between 2006 and 2016 and that the nation’s GDP (also measured in U.S. dollars) more than doubled, increasing from $25.8 billion to $70.5 billion over that same period. The caveat is that Kenya's public debt as a percentage of national output is now 60% compared to around 40% in 2013.


   M-Pesa  

M-Pesa is a mobile banking service that allows users to store and transfer money through their mobile phones. M-Pesa was introduced in Kenya as an alternative way for the population of the country to have access to financial services. Safaricom, the largest mobile phone operator in Kenya, launched M-Pesa in 2007. The service is a blend of two entities where M means mobile and Pesa means money or payment in the Swahili language.



Cash collected from M-Pesa is deposited in bank accounts held by Safaricom. The bank accounts serve as regular checking accounts and are insured up to a maximum of 100,000 KES (or roughly $1,000) by the Deposit Protection Fund.
What Is a Key Currency?  

A key currency refers to a currency which is stable, does not fluctuate much, and provides the foundation for exchange rates for international transactions. Because of their global use, key currencies tend to set the value of other currencies. Also, these currencies tend to have a stable valuation over time. A key currency usually comes from a country that is financially strong, economically stable and developed, and one that is involved in the global market.



Nevertheless, key currency rates do fluctuate daily, and updated key currency rates can appear in financial institutions and financial reporting outlets.





Key Takeaways

Key currencies are stable, globally used currencies in international trade and commerce.Other countries may peg their own currency to a key currency, or a basket of such monies, and they are often kept as reserves by international central banks.The seven key currencies today are the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar, the Swiss franc, and the Mexican peso—although other contenders, such as the Chinese yuan, also exist.


   Understanding Key Currencies  

Key currencies form the reference value for international commerce transactions and as an exchange rate in the foreign exchange (forex) marketplace. An exchange rate is the price of a nation’s currency relative to another country's currency, and it includes the domestic currency and the foreign currency. International commerce is trade between companies in different countries or trade between different countries.



National central banks hold quantities of key currencies as reserve currencies. Reserve currency helps these nations support investments, complete international business transactions, and pay international debt obligations. These banks may also hold key currency to influence their domestic exchange rate. A large percentage of commodities, such as gold and oil, are priced in the key and reserve currency, causing other countries to hold this currency to pay for these goods. However, a currency used as a reserve currency may not be considered a key currency.



As a monetary practice, countries with weaker economies will align their exchange rates with a dominant trading partner. The central bank of some developing nations may fix their exchange rate to a key currency. Known as currency pegging, this practice has the effect of limiting monetary policy flexibility but can increase confidence in a country's economy.






By fixing their own currency exchange rates to key currency rates, central banks in some developing nations hope to make their own economy more stable and make international transactions easier.


   Examples of Key Currencies  

While the term key currency is not precisely defined by any quantitative threshold for use or reference as a benchmark, some key currency examples can be identified based on their characteristics. These include:



The U.S. dollar (USD) has been the leading key currency in the global economy for over 70 years. In this role, the U.S. dollar is used to measure the value of other country’s currencies. Many other nations will invest in the U.S. dollar for its global value and stability. In a positive feedback cycle, the U.S. dollar is the base currency for other currencies, and other countries invest in it as a haven, which has the end result of strengthening the dollar even more. The result is that the USD constitutes just under 60% of global foreign exchange reserve holdings. However, the dollar's status has begun to erode in recent years as the USD has lost popularity as a global reserve currency.
The Euro (EUR) is the official currency for the European Union (EU) and is the second most significant international currency after the U.S. dollar. As of the first quarter 2021, the Euro makes up about 20% of official reserve currency claims held by central banks around the world.
The British pound (GBP), or British pound sterling, is the official currency of the United Kingdom, the British Overseas Territories of South Georgia, the South Sandwich Islands and British Antarctic Territory, and the U.K. crown dependencies.
The Japanese Yen (JPY) is widely used as a reserve currency and frequently paired on the foreign exchange market.
The Canadian dollar (CAD) is a benchmark currency and was the first currency allowed to float in 1950.
The Swiss franc (CHF), known for its neutrality—the country's banks have had a policy of secrecy dating back to the Middle Ages—is an exceptionally strong and stable currency.
The Mexican peso (MXN) is the fifteenth most traded currency in the world and the most traded in Latin America.
What is a Key Employee?  

A key employee is an employee with major ownership and/or decision-making role in the business. Key employees are usually highly compensated either monetarily or with benefits, or both. Key employees may also receive special benefits as an incentive both to join the company and to stay with the company.


   Understanding Key Employee  

The term key employee is also used by the Internal Revenue Service. The IRS uses this term with regard to company-sponsored defined contribution retirement plans. It refers:



to an employee who owns more than 5 percent of the business,owns more than 1% of the business,and has annual compensation greater than a certain amount or is an officer with compensation greater than a certain amount.


   How a Key Employee Affects a Business  

From an internal perspective, apart from the IRS classification, a key employee may be considered to be an intrinsic part of a company’s operations. Such an employee could be influential in securing capital for the business, which may occur through their connections or by virtue of their work.





Key Takeaways

Key employees are often considered crucial to a company's operations. Key employees may enjoy monetary bonuses and other benefits. Employers may address compensation for key employees in a different manner than other staff members. 



For example, the employee may hold a role tied directly to sales channels for the company, intertwining their performance and business activities with the cash flow. The employee might be the top-performing salesperson at the company, driving a significant portion of the regular revenue. The employee, for a variety of reasons, may represent a public face associated with the company’s brand and is thus seen as crucial to maintaining the investment and support of shareholders and customers.






There are other IRS and government rules that have different definitions of "key employee" for different purposes.



The company may define the work of the employee as vital to the infrastructure and operation of the business, even though that employee may not have a highly-visible role in terms of the public or outside business relations.



For instance, the chief scientist on a team developing a novel new product expected to be a mainstay behind the business’s revenue and income could be regarded as a key employee.


   Special Considerations  

Employers may feel the need to address compensation for key employees differently from the majority of the staff beyond providing salary. This can include offering a variety of options for them to save for retirement or presenting them work-life balance benefits to keep them engaged in the business.



Conversely, employers might adopt a different stance if a key employee makes use of the Family and Medical Leave Act to take unpaid leave from work. Such employees, who may rank among the top 10 percent of salaried workers at a company, might not be reinstated by the employer under certain circumstances.
What Is Key Money?  

Key money is a fee paid to a manager, a landlord, or even a current tenant to secure a lease on a residential rental property. The term is sometimes used to refer to a security deposit. However, in some competitive rental markets, key money is simply a gratuity or a bribe.



Charging key money may be legal in some cases for commercial real estate agreements as long as it is written into the lease for the property.


   Understanding Key Money  

The term key money has different meanings in various parts of the world and in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

Key money is sometimes a synonym for a security deposit. Other times it's a bribe.Key money can be an under-the-table payment in return for an apartment lease in a tough market.Payment of key money is legal and acceptable in certain commercial lease transactions.



In some places, key money is synonymous with a security deposit. It is a payment of the equivalent of one or two months' rent, payable when the lease is signed. Laws vary from state to state, but generally, this money is required to be held in escrow and is to be returned to the leaseholder, with interest, after the lease expires. The landlord may withhold payment of some or all of the security deposit only if the tenant damages the property or fails to pay the rent.


  When Key Money Is a Bribe  

In some cities, key money is paid by a prospective tenant to a property owner or manager, a building superintendent, or even the current tenant in the hopes of securing a rental contract. In such cases, the key money is a bribe to ensure that the prospective tenant's application is selected over others.



This practice is limited to cities with low vacancy rates and high prices, particularly if some rentals are subject to price controls that make them all the more desirable.






A requirement for key money may be legal if it is written into the lease.



Demands for key money in exchange for apartment leases were once common, although illegal, in New York City. The city's complex rent stabilization regulations resulted in a two-tiered system of extremely expensive market-rate units and rarely available rent-stabilized units. The city's rent stabilization laws still exist, but the practice of paying key money apparently is no longer common.


  Key Money for Commercial Property  

According to the real estate website brickunderground.com, payment of key money for commercial real estate is still common in New York City, and in this case, it's perfectly above-board. The holder of an attractively-priced long-term commercial lease may sign over the lease to a new tenant in return for a payment of key money. It is particularly common when the previous tenant is signing over a business that has already been equipped for use as a restaurant, for example.



The legal site LegalEagle notes that requiring key money may be legal if it is specifically written into the lease for the property.



Giving key money to a landlord as a gift is common practice in some countries, notably Japan and Mexico.
What Is a Key Performance Indicator (KPI)?  

Key performance indicators (KPIs) refer to a set of quantifiable measurements used to gauge a company’s overall long-term performance. KPIs specifically help determine a company’s strategic, financial, and operational achievements, especially compared to those of other businesses within the same sector.





Key Takeaways

Key performance indicators (KPIs) measure a company’s success vs. a set of targets, objectives, or industry peers.KPIs can be financial, including net profit (or the bottom line, gross profit margin), revenues minus certain expenses, or the current ratio (liquidity and cash availability).Customer-focused KPIs generally center on per-customer efficiency, customer satisfaction, and customer retention.Process-focused KPIs aim to measure and monitor operational performance across the organization.Businesses generally measure and track KPIs through analytics software and reporting tools.












Jiaqi Zhou / Investopedia


   Understanding Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  

Also referred to as key success indicators (KSIs), KPIs vary between companies and between industries, depending on performance criteria. For example, a software company striving to attain the fastest growth in its industry may consider year-over-year (YOY) revenue growth as its chief performance indicator. Conversely, a retail chain might place more value on same-store sales as the best KPI metric for gauging growth.



At the heart of KPIs lie data collection, storage, cleaning, and synthesizing. The information may be financial or nonfinancial and may relate to any department across the company. The goal of KPIs is to communicate results succinctly to allow management to make more informed strategic decisions.






Key performance indicators (KPIs) gauge a company’s output against a set of targets, objectives, or industry peers.


   Categories of KPIs  

Most KPIs fall into four different categories, with each category having its own characteristics, time frame, and users.



Strategic KPIs are usually the most high-level. These types of KPIs may indicate how a company is doing, although it doesn’t provide much information beyond a very high-level snapshot. Executives are most likely to use strategic KPIs, and examples of strategic KPIs include return on investment, profit margin, and total company revenue.
Operational KPIs are focused on a much tighter time frame. These KPIs measure how a company is doing month over month (or even day over day) by analyzing different processes, segments, or geographical locations. These operational KPIs are often used by managing staff and to analyze questions that are derived from analyzing strategic KPIs. For example, if an executive notices that company-wide revenue has decreased, they may investigate which product lines are struggling.
Functional KPIs hone in on specific departments or functions within a company. For example, the finance department may keep track of how many new vendors they register within their accounting information system each month, while the marketing department measures how many clicks each email distribution received. These types of KPIs may be strategic or operational but provide the greatest value to one specific set of users.
Leading/lagging KPIs describe the nature of the data being analyzed and whether it is signaling something to come or something that has already occurred. Consider two different KPIs: the number of overtime hours worked and the profit margin for a flagship product. The number of overtime hours worked may be a leading KPI should the company begin to notice poorer manufacturing quality. Alternatively, profit margins are a result of operations and are considered a lagging indicator.


   Types of KPIs  
  Financial Metrics and KPIs  

Key performance indicators tied to the financials typically focus on revenue and profit margins. Net profit, the most tried and true of profit-based measurements, represents the amount of revenue that remains, as profit for a given period, after accounting for all of the company’s expenses, taxes, and interest payments for the same period.



Financial metrics may be drawn from a company’s financial statements. However, internal management may find it more useful to analyze different numbers that are more specific to analyzing the problems or aspects of the company that management wants to analyze. For example, a company may leverage variable costing to recalculate certain account balances for internal analysis only.



Examples of financial KPIs include:



Liquidity ratios (i.e., current ratios, which divide current assets by current liabilities): These types of KPIs measure how well a company will manage short-term debt obligations based on the short-term assets it has on hand.
Profitability ratios (i.e., net profit margin): These types of KPIs measure how well a company is performing in generating sales while keeping expenses low.
Solvency ratios (i.e., total-debt-to-total-assets ratio): These types of KPIs measure the long-term financial health of a company by evaluating how well a company will be able to pay long-term debt.
Turnover ratios (i.e., inventory turnover): These types of KPIs measure how quickly a company can perform a certain task. For example, inventory turnover measures how quickly a company can convert an item from inventory to a sale. Companies strive to increase turnover to generate faster churn of spending cash to later recover that cash through revenue.


  Customer Experience Metrics and KPI  

Customer-focused KPIs generally center on per-customer efficiency, customer satisfaction, and customer retention. These metrics are used by customer service teams to better understand the service that customers have been receiving.



Examples of customer-centric metrics include:



Number of new ticket requests: This KPI counts customer service requests and measures how many new and open issues customers are having.Number of resolved tickets: This KPI counts the number of requests that have been successfully taken care of. By comparing the number of requests to the number of resolutions, a company can assess its success rate in getting through customer requests.Average resolution time: This KPI is the average amount of time needed to help a customer with an issue. Companies may choose to segment average resolution time across different requests (i.e., technical issue requests vs. new account requests).Average response time: This KPI is the average amount of time needed for a customer service agent to first connect with a customer after the customer has submitted a request. Though the initial agent may not have the knowledge or expertise to provide a solution, a company may value decreasing the time that a customer is waiting for any help.Top customer service agent: This KPI is a combination of any metric above cross-referenced by customer service representatives. For example, in addition to analyzing company-wide average response time, a company can determine the three fastest and slowest responders.Type of request: This KPI is a count of the different types of requests. This KPI can help a company better understand the problems a customer may have (i.e., the company’s website gave incorrect or inaccurate directions) that need to be resolved by the company.Customer satisfaction rating: This KPI is a vague measurement, though companies may perform surveys or post-interaction questionnaires to gather additional information on the customer’s experience.






KPIs are usually not externally required; they are simply internal measurements used by management to evaluate a company’s performance.


  Process Performance Metrics and KPI  

Process metrics aim to measure and monitor operational performance across the organization. These KPIs analyze how tasks are performed and whether there are process, quality, or performance issues. These types of metrics are most useful for companies with repetitive processes, such as manufacturing firms or companies in cyclical industries.



Examples of process performance metrics include:



Production efficiency: This KPI is often measured as the production time for each stage divided by the total processing time. A company may strive to spend only 2% of its time soliciting raw materials; if it discovers it takes 5% of the total process, then the company may strive for solicitation improvements.
Total cycle time: This KPI is the total amount of time needed to complete a process from start to finish. This may be converted to average cycle time if management wishes to analyze a process over a period of time.
Throughput: This KPI is the number of units produced divided by the production time per unit, measuring how fast the manufacturing process is.
Error rate: This KPI is the total number of errors divided by the total number of units produced. A company striving to reduce waste can better understand the number of items that are failing quality control testing.
Quality rate: This KPI focuses on the positive items produced instead of the negative. By dividing the successful units completed by the total number of units produced, this percentage informs management of its success rate in meeting quality standards.


  Marketing KPIs  

Marketing KPIs attempt to gain a better understanding of how effective marketing and promotional campaigns have been. These metrics often measure conversation rates on how often prospective customers perform certain actions in response to a given marketing medium. Examples of marketing KPIs include:



Website traffic: This KPI tracks the number of people who visit certain pages of a company’s website. Management can use this KPI to better understand whether online traffic is being pushed down potential sales channels and if customers are not being funneled appropriately.
Social media traffic: This KPI tracks the views, follows, likes, retweets, shares, engagement, and other measurable interactions between customers and the company’s social media profiles.
Conversion rate on call-to-action content: This KPI centers around focused promotional programs that ask customers to perform certain actions. For example, a specific campaign may encourage customers to act before a certain sale date ends. A company can divide the number of successful engagements by the total number of content distributions to understand what percent of customers answered the call to action.
Blog articles published per month: This KPI simply counts the number of blog posts a company publishes in a given month.
Click-through rates: This KPI measures the number of specific clicks that are performed on email distributions. For example, certain programs may track how many customers opened an email distribution, clicked on a link, and followed through with a sale.


  IT KPIs  

A company may desire operational excellence; in this case, it may want to track how its internal technology (IT) department is operating. These KPIs may encourage a better understanding of employee satisfaction or whether the IT department is being adequately staffed. Examples of IT KPIs include:



Total system downtime: This KPI measures the amount of time that various systems must be taken offline for system updates or repairs. While systems are down, customers may be unable to place orders or employees are unable to perform certain duties (i.e., when the accounting information system is down).
Number of tickets/resolutions: This KPI is similar to customer service KPIs. However, these tickets and resolutions relate to internal staff requests such as hardware or software needs, network problems, or other internal technology problems.
Number of developed features: This KPI measures internal product development by quantifying the number of product changes.
Count of critical bugs: This KPI counts the number of critical problems within systems or programs. A company will need to have its own internal standards for what constitutes a minor vs. major bug.
Back-up frequency: This KPI counts how often critical data is duplicated and stored in a safe location. In accordance with record retention requirements, management may set different targets for different bits of information.


  Sales KPIs  

The ultimate goal of a company is to generate revenue through sales. Though revenue is often measured through financial KPIs, sales KPIs take a more granular approach by leveraging nonfinancial data to better understand the sales process. Examples of sales KPIs include:



Customer lifetime value (CLV): This KPI represents the total amount of money that a customer is expected to spend on your products over the entire business relationship.
Customer acquisition cost (CAC): This KPI represents the total sales and marketing cost required to land a new customer. By comparing CAC to CLV, businesses can measure the effectiveness of their customer acquisition efforts.
Average dollar value for new contracts: This KPI measures the average size of new agreements. A company may have a desired threshold for landing larger or smaller customers.
Average conversion time: This KPI measures the amount of time from first contacting a prospective client to securing a signed contract to perform business.
Number of engaged leads: This KPI counts how many potential leads have been contacted or met with. This metric can be further divided into mediums such as visits, emails, phone calls, or other contacts with customers.






Management may tie bonuses to KPIs. For salespeople, their commission rate may depend on whether they meet expected conversion rates or engage in an appropriate number of leads.


  Human Resource and Staffing KPIs  

Companies may also find it beneficial to analyze KPIs specific to their employees. Ranging from turnover to retention to satisfaction, a company may have a wealth of information already available about its staff. Examples of human resource or staffing KPIs include:



Absenteeism rate: This KPI is a count of how many dates per year or specific period employees are calling in sick or missing shifts. This KPI may be a leading indicator for disengaged or unhappy employees.
Number of overtime hours worked: This KPI tracks the amount of overtime hours worked to gauge whether employees are potentially facing burnout or if staffing levels are appropriate.
Employee satisfaction: This KPI often requires a company-wide survey to gauge how employees are feeling about various aspects of the company. To get the best value from this KPI, companies should consider hosting the same survey every year to track changes from one year to the next regarding the exact same questions.
Employee turnover rate: This KPI measures how often and quickly employees are leaving their positions. Companies can further break down this KPI across departments or teams to determine why some positions may be leaving faster than others.
Number of applicants: This KPI keeps count of how many applications are submitted to open job positions. This KPI helps assess whether job listings are adequately reaching a wide-enough audience to capture interest and lure strong candidates.


   Examples of KPIs  

Let’s take a look at electric vehicle maker Tesla (TSLA) for a few examples of KPIs in real life. These numbers are from its fourth quarter (Q4) 2021 earnings release.


  Vehicle Production  

During the quarter, Tesla produced a record 305,840 vehicles and delivered 308,650 vehicles. Production is a big deal for the company because it has consistently been criticized for being bad at ramping up. Increased manufacturing scale means more market share and profits for Tesla.


  Automotive Gross Margin  

For the quarter, Tesla’s automotive gross margin expanded to 30.6%. Gross margin is one of the best measures of profitability for Tesla because it isolates its vehicle production costs. Tesla managed to expand its gross margin in Q4 even as sales of lower-priced models outpaced its higher-margin models.


  Free Cash Flow  

Tesla’s free cash flow clocked in at $2.8 billion during the quarter. That represented a vast improvement from the $1.9 billion free cash flow in the prior year. Tesla’s level of free cash flow production suggested that the company was reaching a scale of profitability without the help of regulatory credits.


   KPI Levels  

Companies can use KPIs across three broad levels:



First, company-wide KPIs focus on the overall business health and performance. These types of KPIs are useful for informing management of how things are going. However, they are often not granular enough to make decisions. Company-wide KPIs often kick off conversations on why certain departments are performing well or poorly.



At this point, companies often begin digging into department-level KPIs. These are more specific than company-wide KPIs. Department-level KPIs are often more informative as to why specific outcomes are occurring. Many of the examples mentioned above are department-level KPIs, as they focus on a very niche aspect of a company.



If a company chooses to dig even deeper, it may engage with project-level or subdepartment-level KPIs. These KPIs are often specifically requested by management as they may require very specific data sets that may not be readily available. For example, management may want to ask very specific questions to a control group about a potential product rollout.






When preparing KPI reports, start by showing the highest level of data (i.e., company-wide revenue). Next, be prepared to show lower levels of data (i.e., revenue by department, then revenue by department and product).


   How to Create a KPI Report  

With companies seemingly collecting more data every day, it can become overwhelming to sort through the information and determine what KPIs are most useful and impactful for decision making. When beginning the process of pulling together KPI dashboards or reports, consider the following steps:



Discuss goals and intentions with business partners. KPIs are only as useful as the users make them. Before pulling together any KPI reports, understand what you or your business partner are attempting to achieve.Draft SMART KPI requirements. KPIs should have restrictions and be tied to SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound) metrics. Vague, hard-to-ascertain, and unrealistic KPIs serve little to no value. Instead, focus on what information you have that is available and meeting the SMART acronym requirements.Be adaptable. As you pull together KPI reports, be prepared for new business problems to appear and for further attention to be given to other areas. As business and customer needs change, KPIs should also adapt with certain numbers, metrics, and goals changing in line with operational evolutions.Avoid overwhelming users. It may be tempting to overload report users with as many KPIs as you can fit on a report. At a certain point, KPIs start to become difficult to comprehend, and it may become more difficult to determine which metrics are important to focus on.


   Advantages of KPIs  

A company may wish to analyze KPIs for several reasons. KPIs help inform management of specific problems; the data-driven approach provides quantifiable information useful in strategic planning and ensuring operational excellence.



KPIs help hold employees accountable. Instead of relying on feelings or emotions, KPIs are statistically supported and cannot discriminate across employees. When used appropriately, KPIs may help encourage employees as they realize their numbers are being closely monitored.



KPIs are also the bridge that connects actual business operations and goals. A company may set targets, but without the ability to track progress toward those goals, there is little to no purpose in those plans. Instead, KPIs allow companies to set objectives, then monitor progress toward those objectives.


   Limitations of KPIs  

There are some downsides to consider when working with KPIs. There may be a long time frame required for KPIs to provide meaningful data. For example, a company may need to collect annual data from employees for years to better understand trends in satisfaction rates over long periods of time.



KPIs require constant monitoring and close follow-up to be useful. A KPI report that is prepared but never analyzed serves no purpose. In addition, KPIs that are not continuously monitored for accuracy and reasonableness do not encourage beneficial decision making.



KPIs open up the possibility for managers to “game” KPIs. Instead of focusing on actually improving processes or results, managers may feel incentivized to focus on improving KPIs tied to performance bonuses. In addition, quality may decrease if managers are hyper-focused on productivity KPIs, and employees may feel pushed too hard to meet specific KPI measurements that may simply not be reasonable.





Pros

Informs management of how a company is performing in countless ways
Helps hold employees accountable for their actions (or lack of)
Can motivate employees who feel positively challenged to meet targets
Allows a company to set goals and measure progress toward those objectives



Cons

Results in potential time commitment to consistently gather data over long periods of time
Requires ongoing monitoring for accuracy and reasonableness in data
May encourage managers to focus on KPIs instead of broader strategies
May discourage employees if KPI targets are unreasonable







What does KPI mean?
KPI is an abbreviation for key performance indicator, data that has been collected, analyzed, and summarized to help decision making. KPIs may be a single calculation or value that summarizes a period of activity, such as “450 sales in the month of October.” By themselves, KPIs do not add any value to a company. However, a company can use this information to make more informed decisions about business operations and strategies.




What is an example of a KPI?
One of the most basic examples of a KPI is revenue per client (RPC). For example, if you generate $100,000 in revenue annually and have 100 clients, then your RPC is $1,000. A company can use this KPI to track its RPC over time.




What are five of the most common key performance indicators (KPIs)?
KPIs vary from business to business, and some KPIs are more suitable for certain companies compared to others. In general, five of the most commonly used KPIs are:Revenue growthRevenue per clientProfit marginClient retention rateCustomer satisfaction




How do you measure KPIs?
It depends on the actual KPI being measured. Generally speaking, businesses measure and track KPIs through business analytics software and reporting tools. This includes everything from the collection of data via reliable sources, the safe storage of information, the cleaning of data to standardize its format for analysis, and the actual number crunching. Finally, KPIs are often reported using visualization or reporting software.




What makes a KPI good?
A good KPI provides objective and clear information on progress toward an end goal. It tracks and measures factors such as efficiency, quality, timeliness, and performance while providing a way to measure performance over time. The ultimate goal of a KPI is to help management make more informed decisions.


   The Bottom Line  

KPIs offer an effective way to measure and track a company’s performance on a variety of different metrics. By understanding exactly what KPIs are and how to implement them properly, managers are better able to optimize the business for long-term success.
What Is Key Person Insurance?  

Key person insurance is a life insurance policy that a company purchases on the life of an owner, a top executive, or another individual considered critical to the business. The company is the beneficiary of the policy and pays the premiums. This type of life insurance is also known as "key man (or "keyman") insurance," "key woman insurance," and "business life insurance."





Key Takeaways

Key person insurance is a life insurance policy a company buys on the life of a top executive or another critical individual.Such insurance is needed if that person's death would be devastating to the future of the company.For small businesses, the key person might be the owner or founder.The company pays the insurance premiums and is the policy's beneficiary, should the person die.


   Understanding Key Person Insurance  

Key person insurance offers a financial cushion if the sudden loss of a certain individual would profoundly negatively affect the company's operations. The death benefit essentially buys the company time to find a new person or to implement other strategies to save (or shut down) the business.



In a small business, the key person is usually the owner, the founders, or perhaps a key employee or two. The main qualifying point is whether the person's absence would cause major financial harm to the company. If this is the case, key person insurance is definitely worth considering.





Important

In addition to life insurance, key person insurance is also available as disability coverage in case the individual is incapacitated and no longer able to work.


   The Process of Key Person Insurance  

For key person insurance, a company purchases a life insurance policy on certain employee(s), pays the premiums, and is the beneficiary of the policy. In the event of the person's death, the company receives the policy's death benefit.



That money can be used to cover the costs of recruiting, hiring, and training a replacement for the deceased person. If the company doesn't believe it can continue operations, it can use the money to pay off debts, distribute money to investors, provide severance benefits to employees, and close the business down in an orderly manner. Key person insurance gives the company some options other than immediate bankruptcy.



To determine whether a business needs this kind of coverage, company leaders must consider who is irreplaceable in the short term. In many small businesses, it's the owner who does most things, such as keeping the books, managing employees, handling key customers, etc. Without this person, the business can come to a stop.


   Categories of Loss Covered by Key Person Insurance  

Key person insurance can cover a company against a range of risks. For example, it may provide:



Insurance to protect profits—for example, offsetting lost income from lost sales or losses resulting from the delay or cancellation of any business project involving a key person.Insurance designed to protect shareholders or partnership interests. Typically, this enables the surviving shareholders or partners to purchase the financial interests of the deceased person.Insurance for anyone involved in guaranteeing business loans or banking facilities. The value of insurance coverage is arranged to equal the value of the guarantee.


   Cost of Key Person Insurance  

How much insurance a company needs will depend on the size and nature of the business and the key person's role. It's worth asking for quotes on $100,000, $250,000, $500,000, $750,000, and $1 million policies and comparing the costs of each.



The cost will also depend on whether the company buys a term life policy or a permanent life policy. Term life is almost always significantly cheaper.



In addition, the cost of the coverage will vary on a variety of factors, such as the health of the key person, their gender, their age, the type of policy, the amount of coverage, the type of company, its structure, and the industry it is part of.




What Are the Benefits of Key Person Insurance?
Key person insurance financially protects a company against the death or incapacitation of its key person. The money from the insurance helps a company replace the key person and the costs associated with doing so. It can also be used to pay off debts, pay back investors, or cover any other financial costs the company may incur when losing its key person.




How Much Key Person Insurance Do You Need?
The amount of key person insurance needed for a business will vary depending on the business and the type of role the key person plays. Purchasing key person insurance that is eight to 10 times the key person's salary is often recommended or the monetary value of the key person. The latter option can be difficult to value, but methods include the amount of revenues/profits associated with the key person or the costs required to replace the key person, which includes recruitment, training, and the loss of revenue in the time it takes to replace the individual.




Who Pays for Key Person Insurance?
The company that purchases the key person insurance is the entity that pays the premiums for the insurance. The key person does not pay the insurance.


   The Bottom Line  

Key person insurance allows a company to continue to operate in the event of the loss of an individual critical to the success of the business. The death benefit to the company can cover a variety of costs to ensure the business can survive the sudden loss of its key person. Choosing the right key person insurance, the amount of the policy, and other details is particularly important for small businesses and new startups.
What Is the Key Rate?  

The key rate is the specific interest rate that determines bank lending rates and the cost of credit for borrowers. The two key interest rates in the U.S. are the discount rate and the federal funds rate. These are rates that are set, either directly or indirectly, by the Federal Reserve, in order to influence lending and the supply of money and credit in the economy.





Key Takeaways

The key rate determines the lending rates for banks as well as the cost of credit for borrowers. The two types of key rates are the discount rate and the federal funds rate. The key rate will determine the rate at which banks can borrow in order to maintain their reserve levels. The Federal Reserve can influence the rate at which banks can borrow money in order to expand or contract the national economy. 


   Understanding the Key Rate  

The key rate is the interest rate at which banks can borrow when they fall short of their required reserves. They may borrow from other banks or directly from the Federal Reserve for a very short period of time. The rate that banks can borrow from other banks at is called the federal funds rate. The rate banks borrow from the Federal Reserve at is called the discount rate. 



When a large percentage of account holders decide to withdraw their funds from a bank, the bank may be faced with liquidity issues or insufficient funds. This means that not all clients may be able to withdraw their money when requested because the bank does not have the money it owes them. This occurs because, the Federal Reserve maintains a fractional reserve banking system, which requires banks to keep only a small percentage of their deposits in cash—also known as the reserve requirement. 






When storing large amounts of money in any bank, it is important to remember that their available reserves at any given time may influence the amount of cash that you can withdraw at once.


   Special Considerations   

Key rates are one of the chief tools used by the Federal Reserve System to implement monetary policy. When the Federal Reserve wants to expand the money supply in the economy, it will typically buy bonds on the open market with newly created money using the federal funds' rater to gauge the volume and speed of bond purchased needed. When the Federal Reserve is in a contractionary phase, it will raise the rates to increase the cost of borrowing.



The Federal Reserve is able to control the money supply by adjusting the key rate since the prime rate depends on the key rate. The prime rate is the benchmark rate offered by banks to consumers. As a general rule of thumb, the national prime rate is usually about 3 percentage points above the fed funds rate. If the fed funds rate increases after the discount rate increases, banks will alter their prime rates to reflect this change. Therefore, the rates on consumer loans, such as the mortgage rates and credit card rates, will also increase. 



When key rates increase, the cost of consumer borrowing increases, causing consumers to save more and spend less, therefore causing the economy to contract. Lowering key rates will lower the cost of borrowing and cause a decrease in saving and an increase in spending—expanding the economy. 


   Types of Key Rates  

The fed funds rate is the rate that banks charge each other on loans used to meet their reserve requirements. This rate governs the overnight lending of funds made available to private-sector banks, credit unions, and other loan institutions. If a bank decides to borrow directly from the Federal Reserve, it is charged the discount rate. 



The Federal Reserve sets the discount rate. If the discount rate is increased, banks are reluctant to borrow given that the cost of borrowing has been set higher. In this situation, banks will build up reserves and lend less money to individuals and businesses. On the other hand, if the Fed reduces the discount rate, the cost of borrowing will be cheaper for banks, leading them to lend more money out and to borrow more funds to meet their reserve requirements.
What Is Key Rate Duration?  

Key rate duration measures how the value of a debt security or a debt instrument portfolio, generally bonds, changes at a specific maturity point along the entirety of the yield curve. When keeping other maturities constant, the key rate duration is used to measure the sensitivity in a debt security's price to a 1% change in yield for a specific maturity.





Key Takeaways

The key rate duration calculates the change in a bond's price in relation to a 100-basis-point (1%) change in the yield for a given maturity.When a yield curve has a parallel shift, you can use effective duration, but key rate duration must be used when the yield curve moves in a non-parallel manner, to estimate portfolio value changes.Duration measures tell you the price risk involved in holding fixed income securities given a change in interest rates.


   The Formula for Key Rate Duration  













Key Rate Duration formula.
Investopedia 



Where:



P- = a security's price after a 1% decrease in its yieldP+ = a security's price after a 1% increase in its yieldP0 = the security's original price


   Calculating Key Rate Duration  

As an example, assume that a bond is originally priced at $1,000, and with a 1% increase in yield would be priced at $970, and with a 1% decrease in yield would be priced at $1,040. based on the formula above, the key rate duration for this bond would be:



﻿















KRD


=



(


$


1


,


0


4


0


−


$


9


7


0


)



/



(


2


×


1


%


×


$


1


,


0


0


0


)



=


$


7


0


/


$


2


0


=


3


.


5
















where:
















KRD = Key rate duration








\begin{aligned} &\text{KRD}=\left(\$1,040 - \$970\right)/\left(2\times1\%\times\$1,000\right)=\$70/\$20=3.5\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{KRD = Key rate duration}\\ \end{aligned}


​KRD=($1,040−$970)/(2×1%×$1,000)=$70/$20=3.5where:KRD = Key rate duration​﻿


   What Does Key Rate Duration Tell You?  

Key rate duration is an important concept in estimating the expected changes in value for a bond or portfolio of bonds because it does so when the yield curve shifts in a manner that is not perfectly parallel, which occurs often.



Effective duration—another important bond metric—is an insightful duration measure that also calculates expected changes in price for a bond or portfolio of bonds given a 1% change in yield, but it is only valid for parallel shifts in the yield curve. This is why the key rate duration is such a valuable metric.



Key rate duration and effective duration are related. There are 11 maturities along the Treasury spot rate curve, and a key rate duration may be calculated for each. The sum of all the 11 key rate durations along the portfolio's yield curve equal the effective duration of the portfolio.


   Example of How to Use the Key Rate Duration  

It can be difficult to interpret an individual key rate duration because it is very unlikely that a single point on the treasury yield curve will have an upwards or downwards shift at a single point while all others remain constant. It's useful for looking at key rate durations across the curve and looking at the relative values of key rate durations between two securities.



For example, assume bond X has a one-year key rate duration of 0.5 and a five-year key rate duration of 0.9. Bond Y has a key rate durations of 1.2 and 0.3 for these maturity points, respectively. It could be said that bond X is half as sensitive as bond Y on the short-term end of the curve, while bond Y is one-third as sensitive to interest rate changes on the intermediate part of the curve.
What Is a Key Ratio?  

Key ratio is the name given to any financial ratio that's considered particularly effective at measuring, illustrating, and summarizing a company's financials in relation to its competitors or peers.



Investors and companies rely on key ratios all the time to get a snapshot of liquidity, efficiency, profitability, and so forth. Each key ratio focuses on a particular aspect of the company, meaning it is often necessary to consult several of them to get a more complete idea of how the subject is faring. Those that are in sound financial health will have superior ratios to those that are performing poorly. 





Key Takeaways

Key ratios are the primary financial ratios used to illustrate and summarize the current financial condition of a company.They are produced by comparing different line items from the subject's financial statements.Analysts and investors use key ratios to see how companies stack up against their peers.There are plenty of financial ratios at our disposal and determining which are key varies according to opinion and the type of company being analyzed.


   How a Key Ratio Works  

Key ratios take data from a company's financial statements, such as its balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows, and then compare them with other items. These numbers are then calculated together to produce a ratio that represents key aspects of the company's financial picture, such as liquidity, profitability, use of debt, and earnings strength.



There are plenty of financial ratios at one's disposal and determining which are key varies according to opinion and popularity. Some of the most prevalent ratios include:



Working capital ratio: Current assets are divided by current liabilities to establish how capable a company is of meeting its current financial obligations.
Price-Earnings (P/E) Ratio: Divide the current stock price by earnings per share (EPS) to determine the price investors pay for $1 of a company’s profit.
Return on assets (ROA): Divide net income by total assets to discover the percentage of profit a company earns in relation to the resources it has at its disposal.
Return on equity (ROE): Divide net income by shareholders' equity to see how efficiently investor's capital is being put to use by the company's management.



Not all companies operate in the same way, so commonly used ratios tend to vary by industry. In other words, the ratios applied to best compare technology companies won't be the same as those used to effectively compare banks.



In the case of the latter, it's typical to utilize the capital to assets ratio, the loan loss reserves to total loans ratio, and the liquidity ratio. For tech stocks, on the other hand, analysts and investors usually prefer to examine price-to-sales (P/S) ratios, return on research capital (RORC), and so forth.


   Example of a Key Ratio  

Sam is an analyst with XYZ Research and wants to learn more about ABC Corp. He goes to ABC Corp's investor relations website and downloads its most recent financial statements.



Sam wants to find out how efficient ABC Corp is at managing its expenses to generate profits. Looking at net income, sales, operating costs, accounts payable, and net assets figures, Sam computes some of ABC Corp's key profitability ratios, such as ROA and profit margin.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Key Ratio  

Key ratios represent a crucial step in determining the financial health of a company, as well as whether it is being fairly priced by investors. When utilized correctly, they can help us to pinpoint each company’s strengths and weaknesses and discover how it stacks up against its peers.





Important

Comparisons should be made with companies that are in the same industry and, ideally, have similar business models. 




That said, investors must be careful when using key ratios. Applying just one or two is usually not sufficient enough to get the full picture. A company can seldom be properly evaluated or analyzed using just one ratio in isolation.



Moreover, it’s worth bearing in mind that companies may adhere to different accounting practices, making them harder to compare. A combination of ratios should be used in conjunction with one another after determining which are the most appropriate for a given case.
What Is Keynesian Economics?  

Keynesian economics is a macroeconomic theory of total spending in the economy and its effects on output, employment, and inflation. It was developed by British economist John Maynard Keynes during the 1930s in an attempt to understand the Great Depression.



The central belief of Keynesian economics is that government intervention can stabilize the economy. Keynes’ theory was the first to sharply separate the study of economic behavior and individual incentives from the study of broad aggregate variables and constructs. 



Based on his theory, Keynes advocated for increased government expenditures and lower taxes to stimulate demand and pull the global economy out of the Depression. Subsequently, Keynesian economics was used to refer to the concept that optimal economic performance could be achieved—and economic slumps could be prevented—by influencing aggregate demand through economic intervention by the government. Keynesian economists believe that such intervention can achieve full employment and price stability.





Key Takeaways

Keynesian economics focus on using active government policy to manage aggregate demand to address or prevent economic recessions.Keynes developed his theories in response to the Great Depression and was highly critical of previous economic theories, which he referred to as classical economics.Activist fiscal and monetary policy are the primary tools recommended by Keynesian economists to manage the economy and fight unemployment.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Understanding Keynesian Economics  

Keynesian economics represented a new way of looking at spending, output, and inflation. Previously, what Keynes dubbed classical economic thinking held that cyclical swings in employment and economic output create profit opportunities that individuals and entrepreneurs would have an incentive to pursue, and in so doing, they correct the imbalances in the economy.



According to Keynes’ construction of this so-called classical theory, if aggregate demand in the economy fell, the resulting weakness in production and jobs would precipitate a decline in prices and wages. A lower level of inflation and wages would induce employers to make capital investments and employ more people, stimulating employment and restoring economic growth. Keynes believed, however, that the depth and persistence of the Great Depression severely tested this hypothesis.



In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money and other works, Keynes argued against his construction of classical theory, asserting that, during recessions, business pessimism and certain characteristics of market economies would exacerbate economic weakness and cause aggregate demand to plunge further.



For example, Keynesian economics disputes the notion held by some economists that lower wages can restore full employment because labor demand curves slope downward like any other normal demand curve.



Similarly, poor business conditions may cause companies to reduce capital investment rather than take advantage of lower prices to invest in new plants and equipment. This also would have the effect of reducing overall expenditures and employment.






Keynes argued that employers will not add employees to produce goods that cannot be sold because demand for their products is weak.


   Keynesian Economics and the Great Depression  

Keynesian economics is sometimes referred to as “depression economics,” as Keynes’ General Theory was written during a time of deep depression—not only in his native United Kingdom, but worldwide. The famous 1936 book was informed by Keynes’ understanding of events arising during the Great Depression, which Keynes believed could not be explained by classical economic theory as he portrayed it in his book.



Other economists had argued that, in the wake of any widespread downturn in the economy, businesses and investors taking advantage of lower input prices in pursuit of their own self-interest would return output and prices to a state of equilibrium, unless otherwise prevented from doing so. Keynes believed that the Great Depression seemed to counter this theory.



Output was low, and unemployment remained high during this time. The Great Depression inspired Keynes to think differently about the nature of the economy. From these theories, he established real-world applications that could have implications for a society in economic crisis.



Keynes rejected the idea that the economy would return to a natural state of equilibrium. Instead, he argued that, once an economic downturn sets in, for whatever reason, the fear and gloom that it engenders among businesses and investors will tend to become self-fulfilling and can lead to a sustained period of depressed economic activity and unemployment.



In response to this, Keynes advocated a countercyclical fiscal policy in which, during periods of economic woe, the government should undertake deficit spending to make up for the decline in investment and boost consumer spending to stabilize aggregate demand.



Keynes was highly critical of the British government at the time. The government greatly increased welfare spending and raised taxes to balance the national books. Keynes said that this would not encourage people to spend their money, thereby leaving the economy unstimulated and unable to recover and return to a successful state.






Keynes proposed that the government spend more money and cut taxes to turn a budget deficit, which would increase consumer demand in the economy. This would, in turn, lead to an increase in overall economic activity and a reduction in unemployment.



Keynes also criticized the idea of excessive saving, unless it was for a specific purpose such as retirement or education. He saw it as dangerous for the economy because the more money sitting stagnant, the less money is in the economy stimulating growth. This was another of Keynes’ theories geared toward preventing deep economic depressions.



Many economists have criticized Keynes’ approach. They argue that businesses responding to economic incentives will tend to return the economy to a state of equilibrium unless the government prevents them from doing so by interfering with prices and wages, making it appear as though the market is self-regulating.



On the other hand, Keynes, who was writing while the world was mired in a period of deep economic depression, was not as optimistic about the natural equilibrium of the market. He believed that the government was in a better position than market forces when it came to creating a robust economy.















John Maynard Keynes (Source: Public Domain).


   Keynesian Economics and Fiscal Policy  

The multiplier effect, developed by Keynes’ student Richard Kahn, is one of the chief components of Keynesian countercyclical fiscal policy. According to Keynes’ theory of fiscal stimulus, an injection of government spending eventually leads to added business activity and even more spending. This theory proposes that spending boosts aggregate output and generates more income. If workers are willing to spend their extra income, the resulting growth in gross domestic product (GDP) could be even greater than the initial stimulus amount.



The magnitude of the Keynesian multiplier is directly related to the marginal propensity to consume. Its concept is simple. Spending from one consumer becomes income for a business that then spends on equipment, worker wages, energy, materials, purchased services, taxes, and investor returns. That worker’s income can then be spent, and the cycle continues. Keynes and his followers believed that individuals should save less and spend more, raising their marginal propensity to consume to effect full employment and economic growth.



In this theory, one dollar spent in fiscal stimulus eventually creates more than one dollar in growth. This appeared to be a coup for government economists, who could provide justification for politically popular spending projects on a national scale.



This theory was the dominant paradigm in academic economics for decades. Eventually, other economists, such as Milton Friedman and Murray Rothbard, showed that the Keynesian model misrepresented the relationship between savings, investment, and economic growth. Many economists still rely on multiplier-generated models, although most acknowledge that fiscal stimulus is far less effective than the original multiplier model suggests.



The fiscal multiplier commonly associated with the Keynesian theory is one of two broad multipliers in economics. The other multiplier is known as the money multiplier. This multiplier refers to the money creation process that results from a system of fractional reserve banking. The money multiplier is less controversial than its Keynesian fiscal counterpart.


   Keynesian Economics and Monetary Policy  

Keynesian economics focus on demand-side solutions to recessionary periods. The intervention of government in economic processes is an important part of the Keynesian arsenal for battling unemployment, underemployment, and low economic demand. The emphasis on direct government intervention in the economy often places Keynesian theorists at odds with those who argue for limited government involvement in the markets.



Wages and employment, Keynesians argue, are slower to respond to the needs of the market and require government intervention to stay on track. Furthermore, they argue, prices do not react quickly and change only gradually when monetary policy interventions are made, giving rise to a branch of Keynesian economics known as monetarism.



If prices are slow to change, this makes it possible to use money supply as a tool and change interest rates to encourage borrowing and lending. Lowering interest rates is one way that governments can meaningfully intervene in economic systems, thereby encouraging consumption and investment spending. Short-term demand increases initiated by interest rate cuts reinvigorate the economic system and restore employment and demand for services. The new economic activity then feeds continued growth and employment.






Keynesian theorists argue that economies do not stabilize themselves very quickly and require active intervention that boosts short-term demand in the economy.



Without intervention, Keynesian theorists believe, this cycle is disrupted, and market growth becomes more unstable and prone to excessive fluctuation. Keeping interest rates low is an attempt to stimulate the economic cycle by encouraging businesses and individuals to borrow more money. They then spend the money that they borrow. This new spending stimulates the economy. Lowering interest rates, however, does not always lead directly to economic improvement.



Monetarist economists focus on managing the money supply and lower interest rates as a solution to economic woes, but they generally try to avoid the zero-bound problem. As interest rates approach zero, stimulating the economy by lowering interest rates becomes less effective because it reduces the incentive to invest, rather than simply hold money in cash or close substitutes like short-term Treasurys. Interest rate manipulation may no longer be enough to generate new economic activity if it can’t spur investment, and the attempt at generating economic recovery may stall completely. This is a type of liquidity trap.



When lowering interest rates fails to deliver results, Keynesian economists argue that other strategies must be employed, primarily fiscal policy. Other interventionist policies include direct control of the labor supply, changing tax rates to increase or decrease the money supply indirectly, changing monetary policy, or placing controls on the supply of goods and services until employment and demand are restored.


   Keynesian Economics and the 2007-08 Financial Crisis  

In response to the Great Recession and financial crisis of 2007–2008, the Congress and Executive branch undertook several measures that drew from Keynesian economic theory. The federal government bailed out debt-ridden companies in several industries including banks, insurers, and automakers. It also took into conservatorship Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two major market makers and guarantors of mortgages and home loans.



In 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, an $831-billion government stimulus package designed to save existing jobs and create new ones. It included tax cuts/credits and unemployment benefits for families; it also earmarked expenditures for healthcare, infrastructure, and education.



These stimulus measures and federal interventions helped America's economy recover, preventing the Great Recession from becoming another full-blown depression.





COVID-19 Stimulus

In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic starting in early 2020, the U.S. government under President Donald Trump and then President Joseph Biden offered a variety of relief, loan-forgiveness, and loan-extension programs.
The U.S. government also supplemented weekly state unemployment benefits and sent American taxpayers direct aid in the form of three separate, tax-free stimulus checks.




Who Was John Maynard Keynes?
John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946) was a British economist, best known as the founder of Keynesian economics and the father of modern macroeconomics. Keynes studied at one of the most elite schools in England, the King's College at Cambridge University, earning an undergraduate degree in mathematics from the latter in 1905. He excelled at math but received almost no formal training in economics.




How Does Keynesian Economics Differ From Classical Economics?
According to Keynes, classical economics held that swings in employment and economic output create profit opportunities that individuals and entrepreneurs have an incentive to pursue, eventually correcting imbalances in the economy. In contrast, Keynes argued that, during recessions, business pessimism and certain characteristics of market economies would exacerbate economic weakness and cause aggregate demand to plunge further. Keynesian economics holds that, during periods of economic woe, governments should undertake deficit spending to make up for the decline in investment and boost consumer spending to stabilize aggregate demand.




What Is Monetarism?
Monetarism is a macroeconomic theory stating that governments can foster economic stability by targeting the growth rate of the money supply. Closely associated with economist Milton Friedman, monetarism is a branch of Keynesian economics that emphasizes the use of monetary policy over fiscal policy to manage aggregate demand, which contrasts with the theories of most Keynesian economists.


   The Bottom Line  

John Maynard Keynes and Keynesian economics were revolutionary in the 1930s and did much to shape post-World War II economies in the mid-20th century. His theories came under attack in the 1970s, saw a resurgence in the 2000s, and are still debated today. Keynesian economics, recognizes the role of government finance in sparking aggregate demand. Federal spending and tax cuts leave more money in peoples' pockets, which can stimulate demand and investment. Unlike free market economists, Keynesian economics welcomes limited government intervention and stimulus during times of recession.
What Is a Keynesian Put?  

A Keynesian put is an optimistic investor outlook that is based on the expectation that a specific investment, and the financial markets in general, will soon benefit from fiscal stimulus measures.



For example, an investor eyeing a proposal for massive government spending to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, like the one contained in a 2021 federal budget resolution, might consider a Keynesian put strategy related to the stocks of electric bus manufacturers or solar panel companies.



Fiscal stimulus can include increased government spending, reduced taxes, or Federal Reserve monetary policy easing.






A Keynesian put is a bet that anticipates a government policy change that will boost the economy in general, and certain investments specifically.The term was coined by Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts in 2016.A Keynesian put represents the expectation that the government or monetary authorities will spend to maintain growth and inflation in the economy.


   Understanding the Keynesian Put  

The term Keynesian put was coined by analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in 2016. Its name is a reference to the economic theories of the influential 20th-century British economist John Maynard Keynes, who was a proponent of government spending to boost a lagging economy.



The term also is a playful reference to the Greenspan put, a term coined in 1998 to describe the accommodative monetary policies used by then-Federal Reserve Chair Alan Greenspan to avoid recession. Proactive monetary policies such as a cut in the prime lending rate are intended to stimulate the economy by encouraging more borrowing by businesses and consumers.



A Keynesian put is based on confidence that the government will spend to maintain economic growth.



Since the 2007-2008 economic crisis, there has been a growing expectation that governments around the world will aggressively use their spending power to boost their economies. That almost inevitably supports stock prices.


   Example of a Keynesian Put  

The American Rescue Act of 2021 poured $1.2 trillion in federal money into the economy in order to offset the damage done to Americans and to American businesses by the COVID-19 pandemic. An investor with a Keynesian put frame of mind might consider where exactly all of that money was going. Here's where some of it went:



About $242 billion was divided up into payments that went to virtually all Americans, with no strings attached, and with bonus payments for the parents of young children.About $350 billion was distributed to local governments to make up for lost tax revenues. The emphasis was on funding first responder services in a health crisis and assisting residents and small businesses struggling with income losses. Part of the money was intended for basic infrastructure improvements like broadband service and municipal water service upgrades.



Those direct payments to taxpayers went straight into the economy in the form of consumer spending. And infrastructure spending means large-scale government purchases of goods and equipment.



This goes some way towards explaining why the S&P 500 Index, a reliable indicator of the overall health of American big business, rose from 3,870 at the beginning of March 2021 to 4,468 in mid-August 2021, despite the continuing disruption of the COVID-19 pandemic.


   The Effect of the Keynesian Put  

The effects of the Keynesian put are hard to quantify, but they're also hard to deny.



In the short term, infrastructure spending to improve roads, bridges, airports, hospitals, and high-speed internet increase corporate profits, create new jobs, and increase gross domestic product.



However, increased government spending also raises the deficit higher, potentially leading down the road to higher taxes and inflation. The Keynesian put, therefore, is not a phenomenon that is particularly attractive to bondholders.
What Is the Keystone XL Pipeline?  

The Keystone XL pipeline was to transport oil from Alberta, Canada, to refineries in the United States. The final phase of the Keystone XL pipeline was to be developed by TC Energy (formerly TransCanada Corporation), which has constructed several other pipelines between Canada and the United States since 2010.



In March 2019, then-President Donald Trump granted a Presidential permit allowing construction of the oil pipeline that was to run through the international border of the United States and Canada. However, on Jan. 20, 2021, President Biden signed an executive order revoking the permit of the Keystone XL pipeline.





Key Takeaways

The Keystone Pipeline was proposed by TC Energy (formerly TransCanadian Corp.) in 2005 to transport new finds of hard-to-extract heavy oil from oil sands in Canada to U.S. refiners.The pipeline system is 2,687 miles (4,324 km) long. Keystone has been controversial for many years due to concerns about its local and global environmental impacts.On Jan. 20, 2021, President Joe Biden rescinded the construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline.


   Understanding the Keystone XL Pipeline  

The Keystone Pipeline was proposed by TransCanada Corp. on Feb. 9, 2005, in a press release, which said, "TransCanada is in the business of connecting energy supplies to markets and we view this opportunity as another way of providing a valuable service to our customers. Converting one of our natural gas pipeline assets for oil transportation is an innovative, cost-competitive way to meet the need for pipeline expansions to accommodate anticipated growth in Canadian crude oil production during the next decade."



The first phase of the pipeline goes from Hardisty, Alberta, to the junction at Steele City, Nebraska, and on to the Wood River Refinery in Roxana, Illinois, and the Patoka Oil Terminal Hub north of Patoka, Illinois. Section two runs from Steele City, Nebraska, south through Kansas to the oil hub and tank farm in Cushing, Oklahoma, then further south to Nederland, Texas, to serve refineries in the Port Arthur, Texas, area. The third phase is the Houston Lateral pipeline, which will transport crude oil from the pipeline in Liberty County, Texas, to refineries and terminals in the Houston area.



In Nov. 2015, President Barack Obama announced his administration would not grant permits for the construction of this pipeline in order to further their commitment to fighting climate change. In his first week at the Oval Office, President Trump signed an executive order clearing the way for the pipeline project. The Republican party had believed that the construction of the pipeline will create more jobs and provide a boost to the economy. On Jan. 20, 2021, President Joe Biden rescinded the construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline. TC Energy said it was stopping construction earlier the same day.


   How the Keystone Pipeline Works  

The Keystone system transports diluted bitumen and synthetic crude oil from Alberta through Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Oklahoma to refineries located in Texas, Illinois, and Oklahoma. Canada has large reserves of oil locked in oil sands. This oil is considered heavy oil, which requires a different refining process from other types of oil. The production of heavy oil releases particulate matter, such as soot, as well as chemicals such as sulfides, hydrogen cyanide, and sulfur. The finished Keystone XL pipeline is estimated to be able to carry over 800,000 barrels of oil a day.﻿﻿



The Keystone pipeline has been criticized by environmental groups, politicians, and residents of states through which the pipeline passes. These groups have raised concerns about the proposed route's proximity to the Sandhill region of Nebraska and the Ogallala aquifer, the latter of which provides a significant portion of the water used to water crops in the United States. ﻿﻿ The bitumen carried by the pipeline to the United States will likely result in higher greenhouse gas emissions.﻿﻿



For example, the National Resource Defense Council (NRDC) has filed lawsuits in 2017, 2019, and in July of 2020 to stop the construction of the pipeline.﻿﻿ According to the NRDC, tar sands oil is much thicker and more corrosive than typical crude oil and is more prone to leaks and spills through the pipeline. The group stated that the most recent spill in Oct. 2019 resulted in 378,000 gallons of oil spilling in North Dakota.﻿﻿



Proponents of the pipeline say that it will increase the supply of oil to the United States and that oil coming from a friendly neighboring country increases security.
What Is a Kickback?  

A kickback is an illegal payment intended as compensation for preferential treatment or any other type of improper services received. The kickback may be money, a gift, credit, or anything of value. Paying or receiving kickbacks is a corrupt practice that interferes with an employee's or a public official’s ability to make unbiased decisions. Kickbacks are often referred to as a type of bribery.





Key Takeaways

A kickback is an illegal payment intended as compensation for preferential treatment or any other type of improper services received.Kickbacks are often referred to as a type of bribery.While kickbacks can take many different forms, they all feature some sort of collusion between two parties. Paying or receiving kickbacks is a corrupt practice that interferes with an employee's or a public official’s ability to make unbiased decisions.


   How a Kickback Works  

While kickbacks can take many different forms, they all feature some sort of collusion between two parties. For example, the bookkeeper for a business or government office might approve an invoice for goods, knowing that the bill is inflated. The seller of the goods might then pay the bookkeeper part of the difference (or some other kind of reward). Kickback schemes are among the most difficult white-collar crimes to detect and investigate.



Kickbacks can also be used to buy a positive recommendation for the kickback provider. For example, a government employee responsible for managing contractors on an infrastructure project–such as the building of a bridge–might receive a kickback for choosing one contractor over another. This may result in a better-qualified contractor not winning the bid.



Procurement contracts can be fertile ground for kickback schemes. For example, in the granting of a government contract for office equipment, contractors interested in winning the business are typically required to bid against each other. Rather than playing fair, a contractor might reach out to a procurement officer and indicate that, if the contractor were to win, the officer would be rewarded. The reward might be cash, concert tickets, etc.



These are some common kickback warning signs. They don't necessarily mean that anything nefarious is going on, but the more of them there are, the greater the likelihood of a kickback scheme.



No competitive bidding process (or lower bids are ignored)Lack of appropriate supervision during the purchasing processHigher-than-average prices for goods or servicesRecommendation to use a vendor that others shunA vendor with frequent legal or regulatory problemsEmployees are too friendly with vendorsManagement pressures staff to use a particular vendorVendors are in an industry where kickbacks are commonEmployees continue to use vendors that provide poor products or servicesDelivery dates are repeatedly missed



Kickbacks increase the cost of doing business in countries around the world; they also form the basis for much of the world's government corruption. Companies looking to supply products or services to countries known for corruption may find that they have to pay numerous officials in order to be considered for a contract. The perception that a kickback scheme will go unpunished—or that punishment will be light—is a primary driver for officials willing to take bribes. In some cases, they may be poorly paid and see kickbacks as a way to supplement a meager salary.



Even if it is the local custom, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes bribing foreign officials illegal for all companies listed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), any company organized in the United States, or any citizen or resident.﻿﻿


   Example of a Kickback  

On Wall Street, brokers sometimes route all orders to a particular exchange (even though they are required by law to execute trades with the one that offers the best terms, or best-execution, for their clients). Rather than choosing the exchange that offers the most competitive price and has the highest likelihood of completing the trade in a timely manner, the broker may take a kickback in exchange for routing all of their trades to that particular exchange. This can ultimately lead to slower execution and higher transaction costs for clients. The industry refers to the practice as "rebates." While rebates may amount to only a fraction of a cent of each share traded, over time, considerable sums can be accrued.



In the advertising business, kickbacks can take the form of rebates or fraudulent billing for nonexistent services. Clients pay the price with higher costs or a lower level of service than they normally would expect for their money. Shrinking agency fees and a hard-to-understand digital marketplace are providing the motivation and cover for such actions.
What Is a Kicker?  

A kicker is a right, exercisable warrant, or other feature that is added to a debt instrument to make it more desirable to potential investors by giving the debt holder the potential option to purchase shares of the issuer.



In real estate, a kicker is an added expense that must be paid on a mortgage in order to get a loan approved. An example would be an equity stake in the receipts of a retail or rental property.



A kicker is also called a sweetener or a wrinkle.





Key Takeaways

A kicker, also known as a sweetener or a wrinkle, is a feature added to a debt instrument that makes it more desirable to prospective lenders or investors.Kickers provide investors with an extra incentive to purchase debt securities (such as a preferred share or bond) because they add to the investors' expected return on investment (ROI).Two popular types of equity kickers are convertible bonds and warrants to purchase stocks.For investment real estate loans, a common type of kicker is for the borrower to offer the lender a share of the total income or gross rental receipts generated from the investment property.


   How a Kicker Works  

Kickers are features that are added to "get the deal done" as they are exclusively for the benefit of lenders and used to add to their expected return on investment (ROI).



For example, a lender may be wary of loaning money to a startup company, which may need the money to finance early-stage operations. Without a financial track record showing steady sales growth and profits, the startup may face an uphill battle in obtaining funding. The young company may need to structure an equity deal to entice the lender, offering a kicker of equity ownership in the company. In return for loaning money to the company, the lender will receive a stake in the company and a certain percentage of future profits.


   Equity Kickers  

In effect, a kicker is an extra incentive to encourage investors to purchase debt securities, such as a bond or preferred share. When a bond has an embedded option that may be exercised by the bondholder to purchase equity at the issuing firm at a discount price, the option is said to be a kicker. An investor will be incentivized to purchase a bond with a kicker as this allows the investor to participate in any increase in the value of equity ownership.



Two common types of equity kickers are a convertible feature on some bonds that allows the bonds to be exchanged for shares of stock, and warrants to purchase stocks that are sold in combination with a new bond issue.






Equity kickers are often used for leveraged buyouts (LBOs), management buyouts (MBOs), and equity recapitalizations since they are considered too risky for traditional financing offered by senior, secured lenders.



A company that adds a kicker (for example, a rights offering) to a bond issue is only doing so to get the entire issue into the hands of investors. The kicker may or may not actually be usable at any time during the life of the bond. Often a certain breakpoint must be reached, such as a stock price above a certain level, before the kicker has any real value.



For example, a bondholder that has the right to purchase shares in the company for $20 per share, will only exercise this right if the shares are trading above $20. Otherwise, there’s no financial advantage to purchasing the shares.


   Real Estate Kickers  

In real estate loans, a lender may be offered, in addition to interest on the loan, a share in the total income or gross rental receipts that will be generated from the investment property being financed, if the income exceeds a specified amount. This benefit may be offered by the borrower or demanded by the lender to sweeten the loan deal.



If the borrower is unable to make a large down payment on the property or there is some circumstance that makes the transaction a credit risk, the lender may require some type of equity kicker or percentage ownership in the property. For example, the lender may agree to a real estate investment loan provided they receive a percentage of the sales proceeds after the borrower renovates the property and resells it at a higher price.


   Special Considerations  

The term kicker should not be confused with the term kickback, which is an illegal payment given as compensation for preferential treatment. In real estate transactions, individuals and companies that violate the prohibition against kickbacks can face civil and criminal liability. From a legal viewpoint, all settlement costs have to be disclosed in consumer loans as part of the finance charges.



Congress enacted the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), which became effective in June 1975, to protect consumers from abusive settlement practices, such as kickbacks. RESPA requires lenders, mortgage brokers, or servicers of home loans to provide borrowers with disclosures regarding the nature and costs of the real estate settlement process.﻿﻿
What Is a Kicker Pattern?  

A kicker pattern is a two-bar candlestick pattern that predicts a change in the direction of an asset's price trend. This pattern is characterized by a sharp reversal in price over the span of two candlesticks. Traders use it to determine which group of market participants is in control of the direction.



The pattern points to a strong change in investors' attitudes toward a security. The change in direction usually occurs following the release of valuable information about a company, industry, or economy.





Key Takeaways:

A kicker pattern is a type of candlestick pattern that predicts a change in the direction of an asset's price trend.This pattern is characterized by a sharp reversal in price over the span of two candlesticks.Traders use kicker patterns to determine which group of market participants is in control of the direction.The pattern points to a strong change in investors' attitudes towards a security that typically follows the release of valuable information about a company, industry, or economy.Kicker patterns are either bullish or bearish.


   Understanding the Kicker Pattern  

The stock market is characterized by competing buyers (bulls) and sellers (bears). The constant tug of war among these players is what forms candlesticks patterns. Candlestick charting originated from a technique developed in Japan in the 1700s that tracked the price of rice. Candlesticks are a suitable technique for trading any liquid financial asset such as stocks, futures, and foreign exchange.



The kicker pattern is considered one of the most reliable reversal patterns and usually indicates a dramatic change in a company's fundamentals. The kicker pattern is a reversal pattern, and it differs from a gap pattern, which tends to show a gap up or down and stay in that trend. The patterns look similar, but each implies something different.



Kicker patterns are either bullish or bearish. Bullish kickers start with a bearish candle and then show a bullish gap up. Bearish kickers start with a bullish candle and then show a bearish gap down.















Kicker Pattern.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020


   How the Kicker Pattern Works  

To traders observing the kicker pattern, it may seem like the price has moved too quickly, and they may wait for a pullback. However, those traders may find themselves wishing they had entered a position when they originally identified the kicker pattern.



While the kicker pattern is one of the strongest bull or bear sentiment indicators, the pattern is rare. Most professional traders do not rapidly overreact in one direction or another. However, if and when the kicker pattern presents itself, money managers are quick to take notice.



The kicker pattern is one of the most powerful signals available to technical analysts. Its relevance is magnified when it occurs in overbought or oversold markets. The two candles behind the pattern take on visible significance. The first candle opens and moves in the direction of a current trend and the second candle opens at the same open of the previous day (a gap open) and then heads in the opposite direction of the prior day’s candle.



The bodies of the candles are opposite colors on many trading platforms, creating a colorful display of the dramatic change in investor sentiment. Because the kicker pattern occurs only after a significant change in the investor attitude; the indicator is often studied with other measures of market psychology or behavioral finance.


   Example of a Bearish Kicker Candlestick Pattern  

The Bearish Kicker Candlestick Chart pattern's reliability is high when it is formed at the uptrend or formed in an overbought area.



On day 1, one candlestick continues an uptrend and is, therefore, bullish in nature. It has no significance on its own when formed in an uptrend.



On day 2, a bearish candlestick emerges. The candlestick opens at the same price as the previous day (or a gap down) and then heads in the opposite direction of the Day 1 candle. For this pattern to be valid, the second day’s candle should open at or lower than the first day’s candle. Traders commonly expect that a gap down before the second day’s candle will increase the chances that prices will continue to fall after the second day is done.
What Is Kicking the Tires?  

Kicking the tires is a colloquial expression that refers to performing minimal research into an investment, as opposed to conducting a thorough and rigorous analysis. The process usually includes a cursory reading of the company's annual report, looking at its historical earning and revenue performance, considering the company's competitive strengths and weaknesses, and reading news articles or headlines about the company.





Key Takeaways

Kicking the tires involves conducting a minimal amount of research before making an investment decision.Taken from the context of car shopping, it is the opposite of conducting serious, in-depth research or due diligence.Kicking the tires can nonetheless be a valid strategy as it cuts down on time and effort in conducting research by performing some cursory analysis, but can also lead investors astray with incomplete or wrong conclusions.


   Understanding Kicking the Tires  

Kicking the tires gets its name from shopping for an automobile. A car shopper who shows some interest in a car probably will not look under the hood or perform a serious comparative analysis versus similar models. However, this shopper usually takes a walk around the car from front to back to get a look and kick the tires. This shopper is not considered a serious buyer or a hot prospect.



Similarly, a tire-kicker in the investment world is not ready to make a decision on an investment. A stock investor often examines the company’s balance sheet, previous cash flow statements, and income statements and also wants to read several research reports, but is not ready to invest. An investor who is kicking the tires may simply take a look at a stock’s price-earnings ratio and other simple valuation metrics versus those of its peers.



Kicking the tires typically includes taking a cursory look at a company’s price chart to get a sense for past performance. Those who employ technical analysis also scan for patterns and potential entry and exit points based on a study of both price and volume. Kicking the tires also applies to a broad range of investments, such as stocks bonds, mutual funds, hedge funds, closed-end funds, money markets, certificates of deposit, and even private-equity and real estate investments.


   Examples of Kicking the Tires  

For example, someone thinking about putting money in a hedge fund starts kicking the tires by reading advertising material provided by the investment management company but does not yet look up the investment manager’s disciplinary history on the FINRA web site.



Similarly, someone kicking the tires on a 12-month CD looks up interest rates online, but does not read the fine print regarding penalties, restrictions, and the automatic rollover policy.


   Pros and Cons of Kicking the Tires  

Kicking the tires is how serious analysis often begins. At times, investors who start by kicking the tires continue on to more rigorous analysis that leads to interesting finds, either within their normal investment universe, or sometimes outside of where they normally look for ideas.



Depending on an investor’s strategy, however, kicking the tires too often sometimes leads to diversions and poor investments. Constantly kicking the tires on new ideas also wastes time. For this reason, it’s sometimes preferable for investors to start with a strict set of criteria to narrow a pool of potential investments, rather than randomly kicking tires.
What Is the Kiddie Tax?  

The kiddie tax is a special tax law created in 1986 to address investment and unearned income tax for individuals 18 years of age or under—or dependent full-time students under age 24.





Key Takeaways

The kiddie tax prevents parents from avoiding taxes by transferring large gifts of stock.All unearned income over the threshold is taxed at the parent’s marginal income tax rate rather than the lower child’s tax rate.It applies to all children who are 18 years of age or under—or dependent full-time students between the ages of 19 and 24.The kiddie tax applies to most unearned income that a child receives and does not apply to any salary or wages.In 2022, unearned income under $1,150 qualifies for the standard deduction under kiddie tax law.


   How the Kiddie Tax Works  

The kiddie tax is imposed on individuals under a certain age (18 years old or under and full-time students age 19-24 years old), whose investment and unearned income is higher than an annually determined threshold.



This rule is designed to prevent parents from exploiting a tax loophole where their children are given large gifts of stock. In this case, the child would then realize any gains from the investments and would be taxed at a far lower rate compared to the rate the guardians face for their realized stock gains.



Under the kiddie tax law, all unearned income over the threshold is taxed at the parent's marginal income tax rate rather than the child's tax rate. In 2021, unearned income under $1,100 qualifies for the standard deduction. The next $1,100 is taxed at the child's tax rate, which is very low—sometimes 0%—and then anything over $2,200 is taxed at the guardian's tax rate, which could be as high as 37%.



In 2022, unearned income under $1,150 qualifies for the standard deduction, and the next $1,150 is taxed at the child's tax rate.


  Who and What the Kiddie Tax Applies to  

As of 2021, the kiddie tax applies to all children aged 18 and under at the end of the tax year and children who are dependent full-time students between the ages of 19 and 24. However, it does not apply to children under these ages who are married and file joint tax returns.



The kiddie tax includes unearned income a child receives: interest, dividends, capital gains, rent, and royalties. Any salary or wages the child earns is not subject to the kiddie tax.






Adult children who turn 19—or 25 in the case of dependent full-time students—by the end of the tax year are not subject to the kiddie tax. 


   History of the Kiddie Tax  

The tax law originally only covered children under 14 years of age. Children under the age of 14 cannot legally work, which means that any income they received usually came from dividends or interest from bonds. However, the tax authorities realized that some guardians would take advantage of the situation and then give stock gifts to their older, 16-to-18-year-old children.



The kiddie tax is imposed on individuals 18 years old or under whose investment and unearned income is higher than an annually determined threshold. The IRS taxes any income exceeding the predetermined threshold at the parent's tax rate. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 temporarily changed the kiddie tax to use the tax rates that apply to estates and trusts rather than the tax rate of the child's parents.



However, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act 2020 retroactively changed it back to the parent's tax rate. For 2018 and 2019 returns, taxpayers could use either the estate tax rates or the parent's take rate for calculating the kiddie tax. For 2020 and beyond, the parent's tax rate applies.

What Is Kids in Parents' Pockets Eroding Retirement Savings (KIPPERS)?  

Kids In Parents' Pockets Eroding Retirement Savings (KIPPERS) is a slang term for adult children who are still living at home with their parents even after finishing school and reaching working age. Their parents face the challenges of managing their own finances and planning for retirement while dealing with the added expense of housing and feeding their adult offspring.



KIPPERS are also known as boomerang children.





Key Takeaways

Kids in Parents' Pockets Eroding Retirement Savings (KIPPERS) is a slang term for adult children who are still living at home with their parents even after finishing school and reaching working age.Parents may enjoy having their KIPPERS at home, but it can cause a financial strain due to the added costs of housing one or more children.It may also force them to delay their own big decisions, such as downsizing, moving to a better climate, and retiring.Parents should help their KIPPERS prepare for independent life by establishing rules, charging rent, and helping them manage costs and debt.


   Understanding Kids in Parents' Pockets Eroding Retirement Savings (KIPPERS)  

According to some studies, most parents find that having KIPPERS in the house is a pleasant experience. They like living with their adult children and the opportunity to build deeper relationships with them now that they are adults. The extra time spent at home allows for a closer relationship, in many instances.



However, it usually results in the parents spending more and saving less than they otherwise would as they approach retirement age. Additional costs include extra groceries for feeding additional mouths, continuing to stay in a larger house as opposed to downsizing when the kids have moved out, and other possible costs depending on the situation of the child, such as an additional car or spending money. They may also postpone retirement itself, working many more years just to support their children.



Contrast this to the situation of a married dual-income couple with no children at home, whose discretionary income is often higher, and who find saving for retirement easier. This demographic group is sometimes referred to as Dual Income No Kids (DINKs).


   Millennials on the Couch  

A Pew Research Center study in 2016 found that nearly one-third of 18- to 34-year-olds lived with at least one parent, up from just 20% in 1960. "For the first time in 130 years, shacking up with Mom and/or Dad was the most common living arrangement for young adults, edging out being married/cohabitating, living alone, or living with someone other than a parent," Consumer Reports noted.



In 2020, Pew Research showed that 52% of young adults in the U.S. were living with their parents. This was a direct result of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the number was still high before the pandemic in February 2020, at 47%.



For parents struggling to save for retirement and contain costs, Consumer Reports offered these tips:



Don't allow freeloading. Make sure your adult children are financially responsible by setting goals, discussing household costs, and assigning their share, even if they don't have the money to pay for them right now.Talk about timelines for leaving the nest, and educate them about the costs of living.Encourage your children to establish credit of their own so that one day they'll be able to qualify for their own place.Consider charging rent.


   Why Are They Here?  

There are many factors that result in adult children living with their parents. Millennials were hard hit with the financial crisis of 2008 and now by the pandemic caused by the Coronavirus. These two events caused many young adults to be laid off, losing out on time to build savings.



In addition, the jobs many younger people can get don't pay well enough to allow them to live on their own. Combine this with the large levels of student debt in the U.S., it is simply just cost-effective to live with your parents rather than on your own, particularly in such cities like New York, whose rents have skyrocketed in the last twenty years.
What Is the Kijun Line (Base Line)?  

The Kijun Line, also called the Base Line or Kijun-sen, is one of five components that make up the Ichimoku Cloud indicator. The Kijun Line is typically used in conjunction with the Conversion Line (Tenkan-sen) to generate trade signals when they cross. These signals can be further filtered via the other components of the Ichimoku indicator.



The Kijun Line is the mid-point of the high and low price over the last 26 periods.















TradingView.





Key Takeaways


When the price is above the Kijun Line it indicates the recent price momentum is to the upside. When the price is below the Kijun Line, recent price momentum is to the downside.
The Kijun Line and Tenkan Line are used together to generate trade signals.
The Base Line is the midpoint price of the last 26 periods.
The Kijun Line is one of five components of the Ichimoku indicator.



   The Formula for the Kijun Line (Base Line) Is  
















Kijun line (base line)


=



1


2



∗



(




max


⁡




{


t


.


.


t


−


26


}





[


p


]



+




min


⁡




{


t


.


.


t


−


26


}





[


p


]



)

















where:


















max


⁡




{


t


.


.


t


−


26


}





[


p


]



=


the maximum price over the last 26 periods


















min


⁡




{


t


.


.


t


−


26


}





[


p


]



=


the minimum price over the last 26 periods







\begin{aligned} &\text{Kijun line (base line)} = \frac{1}{2}*\left( \max_{\left\{ t .. t-26\right\} } {\left[p\right ]} + \min_{\left\{ t .. t-26\right\}}{\left[p\right ]} \right)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\max_{\left\{ t .. t-26\right\} }{\left[p\right ]} = \text{the maximum price over the last 26 periods}\\ &\min_{\left\{ t .. t-26\right\} }{\left[p\right ]} = \text{the minimum price over the last 26 periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​Kijun line (base line)=21​∗({t..t−26}max​[p]+{t..t−26}min​[p])where:{t..t−26}max​[p]=the maximum price over the last 26 periods{t..t−26}min​[p]=the minimum price over the last 26 periods​


   How to Calculate the Kijun Line (Base Line)  

Find the highest price over the last 26 periods.Find the lowest price over the last 26 periods.Combine the high and low, then divide by two.Update the calculation after each period ends.


   What Does the Kijun Line Tell You?  

The Kijun Line, or Base Line, is part of the Ichimoku Cloud indicator.



The Ichimoku Cloud is a technical indicator that defines support and resistance, measures momentum, and provides buy and sell signals. Its developer, Goichi Hosoda, designed the indicator to be a "one look equilibrium chart."



There are several different lines included in the Ichimoku Cloud indicator.



Tenkan-Sen—Conversion Line
Kijun-Sen—Base Line
Senkou Span A—Leading Span A
Senkou Span B—Leading Span B
Chikou Span—Lagging Span



While the "cloud," made up of Leading Span A and B, is the most prominent feature of the Ichimoku Cloud indicator, the Kijun Line generates trading signals when it is crossed by the Tenkan Line. The Tenkan Line is the 9-period price mid-point. It thus moves quicker than the Kinjun line which looks at 26 periods.



When the Tenkan Line crosses above the Kijun Line it signals that the short-term price momentum is moving to the upside, and may be interpreted as a buy signal.



When the Tenkan Line crosses below the Kijun Line it signals momentum has shifted to the downside and may be interpreted as a sell signal.



Buy or sell signals should be used within the context of the other components of the Ichimoku indicator. For example, a trader may only wish to trade the buy signals if the price is also above the "cloud" or Leading Span A.



When the Tenkan Line and Kijun Line are crossing back and forth the price lacks a trend, or is moving in a choppy fashion, and therefore the crossovers will not produce reliable trade signals.



On its own, the Kijun Line can also be used for analyzing price momentum. When the price is above the Kijun line, it means the price is above the 26-period mid-point and therefore has an upward bias. If the price is below the Kijun Line, it is below the midpoint price, and therefore has a downward bias.


   Example of a Kijun Line  

The following chart shows an example of an Ichimoku Cloud indicator applied to the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In the chart above, the Kijun Line is red and the Tenkan Line is blue. After a brief selloff, the Tenkan moved above the Kijun in early 2016. This was a potential buy signal. The two lines did not cross again until 2018, which would have provided the sell signal. For most of this time, the price stayed above the Kijun Line and the "cloud," helping to confirm the uptrend.


   The Difference Between the Kijun Line and a Moving Average  

The Kijun Line is a moving mid-point, based on the high and low over a set number of periods. It is calculated by adding the high and low and dividing by two. A moving average (MA) is different. It sums up the closing prices of a set number of periods and then divides that by the number of periods. A 26-period Kijun Line and a 26-period MA will produce different values, and therefore provide traders with different information.


   The Limitations of Using the Kijun Line  

Unless there is a very strong trend, the Kijun Line will often appear near the price. When the Kijun Line is often intersecting or near the price, it is not as useful for helping to assess the trend direction.



The same goes for crossovers with the Tenkan Line. When the price trends strongly, crossover signals may be quite profitable. Yet many crossovers signals will be unprofitable if the price fails to trend following the crossover.



The Kijun Line is reactionary, in that it shows what price has done in the past. There are no predictive qualities inherent in the indicator's calculation.



The Kijun Line should ideally be used in conjunction with the other elements of the Ichimoku Cloud indicator, along with price action and other technical indicators.
What Is the Kijun-Sen (Base Line)?  

The Kijun-sen, or base line, is an indicator and important component of the Ichimoku Kinko Hyo method of technical analysis, which is also known as the Ichimoku cloud.



The Kijun-sen is the midpoint price of the last 26-periods, and therefore an indicator of short- to medium-term price momentum. The indicator aids in assessing the trend, and can also be useful for identifying trading opportunities when combined with the other components of the Ichimoku cloud.















TradingView.





Key Takeaways

Kijun-sen also means "base line" and is the mid-point of the 26-period high and low.Kijun-sen is typically used in conjunction with Tenkan-sen (conversion line)—the 9-period midpoint price—to generate trade signals when they cross.Kijun-sen is typically used in conjunction with the other Ichimoku indicators.When the price is above Kijun-sen then short- to medium-term price momentum is up. If the price is below Kijun-sen then price momentum is down.


   The Formula for the Kijun-Sen (Base Line) is  

﻿















Kijun-sen (base line)


=




1




2





(


26-period high


+


26-period low


)









\begin{aligned} &\text{Kijun-sen (base line)}=\frac{1}{2} \left( \text{26-period high}+\text{26-period low} \right ) \end{aligned}


​Kijun-sen (base line)=21​(26-period high+26-period low)​﻿


  How to Calculate the Kijun-Sen (Base Line)  

Find the highest price reached over the last 26 periods.Find the lowest price reached over the last 26 periods.Sum these two numbers together and then divide by two.


   What Does the Kijun-Sen (Base Line) Tell You?  

On its own, Kijun-sen shows the midpoint price for the last 26 periods. Similar to a moving average, when the price is above the base line it indicates the price is above the midpoint and therefore short-term price momentum is up. This is further confirmed if the Kijun-sen line is angled upwards.



When the price is below the base line, and especially if Kijun-sen is angled downwards, that indicates price momentum is to the downside as the price is below the 26-period midpoint. While 26-periods is typically used for this calculation, this can be altered to suit individual preference. A smaller number of periods, such as 15, will track the price more closely. A larger number of periods, such as 45, will not track the price as closely.



The Kijun-sen is nearly always used alongside the Tenkan-sen (conversion line) to help gauge direction changes in price and to generate trade signals. Tenkan-sen is the 9-period price midpoint. Since it is a short-term indicator it tracks price more closely and responds quicker to price changes. Therefore, when Tenkan-sen crosses above Kijun-sen it indicates that price momentum is picking up steam to the upside. Some traders use this as a buy signal. This is a bullish crossover.



When Tenkan-sen crosses down through Kijun-sen it indicates the price is dropping, and some traders use this as a sell signal. This is a bearish crossover.
When Tenkan-sen and Kijun-sen are intertwined or crossing back and forth that means the price is lacking a trend or moving in a choppy fashion. Crossover signals are not as reliable during such times.



When gauging the trend or using crossovers, the information provided should be used within the context of the entire Ichimoku cloud indicator. For example, if the price is above the "cloud", a bearish crossover may still be used to sell a long position, but it likely wouldn't be used to enter a short position.


   The Difference Between Kijun-sen (Base Line) and a Simple Moving Average (SMA)  

The Kijun-sen is a midpoint of the high and low price over the last 26-periods. This is not an average. A simple moving average is an average price over a set number of periods, calculated by adding up the closing prices of those periods and then dividing the total by the number of periods.



A 26-period base line and a 26-period SMA will produce different values and thus provide different information to the trader.


   The Limitations of Using Kijun-sen (Base Line)  

Unless there's a lot of recent price movement, enough to pull the price away from the 26-period midpoint, the Kijun-sen will often trade near and intersect with the price. At times like these, it is not an ideal tool for helping with trend direction. If the price is crossing the base line repeatedly, the other Ichimoku indicators are needed to provide clarity on the larger or longer-term trend direction.



While some crossover signals with the Tenkan-sen will result in large and profitable price moves, others may not. The price may fail to move as expected or the indicator may cross back the other way, generating a false signal.



While the Kijun-sen does provide some information on its own, it is best used in conjunction with the other Ichimoku indicators. In addition, traders are also encouraged to use price action analysis, other technical tools, and fundamental analysis.
What is a Kill  

A kill is a request to cancel a trade between its placement and its fulfillment.


   BREAKING DOWN Kill  

Kill requests occur after a trader places an order but before it gets filled by a counterparty. Investors may wish to kill trades because of market movements that change the potential profitability of a trade, because they placed the order accidentally, or simply because they changed their mind after placing the trade.



The success of the kill depends on the type of trade and the disposition of the markets. Many trades move from placement to execution almost instantaneously thanks to computer trading, limiting the amount of time available for a successful kill. When exchanges experience heavy trade volumes, investors may also run into difficulty killing trades because timely notification about the trade’s fulfillment or cancellation can be delayed. Placing a trade makes the investor or trader liable for the order on fulfillment, regardless of whether the trader receives timely notification. Kill orders issued or received after fulfillment of a trade will not be honored, and will not change the trader’s responsibility to follow through on the placement order.


   Killing Market and Limit Orders  

Since a successful kill order requires a trader to submit it before the order gets fulfilled, traders have much more leeway on timing for placements that delay fulfillment or which place restrictions on fulfillment. For example, some traders who wish to fulfill a large order at a specific price will issue a fill or kill order. Depending on the exchange and the order type specified, fill or kill orders take place in a single large transaction that either fills the entire order or as much of the order as possible. In either case, the order must fill at the specified price and the unfilled balance, in whole or in part, gets killed if no counterparties come forward.



Limit orders​​​​​​​, on the other hand, specify an amount of time during which an order fulfills if the security in the trade hits a specific price point. For example, an investor may use a stop loss order to ensure a security that falls in price gets sold before it loses too much value. An investor may also use a take profit order to set a higher price point at which the investor wants a sale to take place. In either case, the order does not get fulfilled until the contingent event happens, and therefore, a trader or investor could more easily kill the trade.
What Is a Killer Application?  

A killer application—or a killer app—is a software program with a user-interface perceived as innovative enough to influence computing trends and sales. The term dates to the early development of personal computers and software in the 1980s, when accounting, database, and word-processing applications were first being developed for mass use.



The term "killer application" may be derived from the fact that such an application was perceived to be innovative enough to overcome the competition and spur sales of both applications and computers running operating systems advanced enough to accommodate the latest innovations.





Key Takeaways

A killer application is a feature or piece of software so good that it drives sales and growth of the overall platform or company, similar to flagship products and brands in traditional industries.Killer applications can be a major source of competitive advantage, brand loyalty, and profitability for a company. In the modern economy, killer applications are sought by all kinds of businesses across many industries beyond technology and computing. 


   Understanding Killer Applications  

Killer applications can be instrumental in driving rapid growth in sales of the platform on which they are based. They are usually a product or service that is a primary source of competitive advantage for a company. A prime example is iTunes, which helped Apple Computer overcome inertia as a niche computer manufacturer to expand into the broader entertainment markets. Other recent killer apps include WhatsApp, Snapchat, and TikTok. You can see the might of their popularity from the number of their users, the intensity of their use, and sometimes the valuation of the firms behind them. While some companies that develop killer applications can enjoy substantial margins and profits for many years, this competitive advantage does not always last for long, and short product life cycles are the norm rather than the exception.



As businesses increasingly adopted stand-alone computers connected by local networks or mainframes, both computer and software manufacturers developed more evolved applications. They allowed users to execute tasks without needing to know programming language or commands to save a file or send electronic communications. Over time, applications such as Microsoft Word and Excel became the standard for businesses, overshadowing earlier competition such as Word Perfect or Lotus 123. A similar dynamic played out as internet browsers and email applications competed for users worldwide.


   The Value of Killer Applications  

Typically, a killer application constitutes such a desirable feature that it drives sales and adoption of the platform on which it runs, such as operating systems or specific devices. The value that the killer application brings to the user may even help other perceived shortcomings of the platform and can raise the switching cost for consumers to leave the platform, increasing longevity and brand loyalty. For example, the popular Halo first-person-shooter game series is widely credited as the killer application that built the success of Microsoft’s Xbox game consoles. It was so popular that it spawned the derivative term “Halo killer”, which is meant to be a first-person-shooter good enough to rival or unseat Halo. 



In the modern economy, development and reliance upon killer applications extends beyond just technology and computing businesses or bridge the gap between pure tech businesses and more traditional goods and services. These are intended to drive sales and growth of the overall business “platform” in the same way as killer apps historically have.



The ubiquity of smartphones and the "always-on-always-connected" culture means that products and industries from healthcare delivery to restaurant food service to fitness centers are all seeking their own killer app to drive online and in-person traffic to their doorstep. These can include everything from online sales and customer appointment scheduling to online social platforms for customers and downloadable apps that interface directly with a physical product. Using or offering software that complements the goods and services that a company provides is now key to driving a superior customer experience and competitive advantage.
What Are Killer Bees?  

Killer bees are companies or individuals—such as investment bankers, accountants, attorneys, and tax specialists—that help target firms avoid being taken over by an unwanted suitor. Their job is to devise and implement anti-takeover defense strategies, which generally consist of making the target less attractive or more difficult or costly to acquire.





Key Takeaways

Killer bees are companies or individuals that help target firms avoid being taken over.Their job is to devise anti-takeover defense strategies that make the target more difficult or costly to acquire.Killer bees rose to prominence during the 1980s when corporate America came under attack from opportunistic investors known as raiders.The strategies killer bees employ are often controversial, frequently questioned by shareholders, and risk being overturned by the courts.


   Understanding Killer Bees  

When a company targets another one for acquisition, it will usually first approach its board of directors. If rebuffed, the acquirer could then return with a better bid, walk away, or seek to bypass management by initiating a tender offer directly to shareholders.



Should takeover advances turn unfriendly or hostile, killer bees may be brought on board. Their job is to come up with feasible ways to make life uncomfortable for the prospective buyer, similar to how their namesake stings its victims when provoked until they back off and go away.



Killer bees rose to prominence during the 1980s hostile takeover craze. Back then, a category of investors with deep pockets, known as raiders, began buying undervalued companies and then controversially dismembering them to bag a quick profit. Corporate America wasn't used to this type of behavior and enlisted the help of specialists to defend against these attacks.



Killer bees would present a series of options to the target's board based on its individual circumstances and the characteristics of the company seeking to buy it. To foil a hostile takeover attempt, they generally aim to make the prey either too expensive to acquire or so unattractive that the predator loses interest.


   Killer Bees Methods  

Following the 1980s, defensive measures known as shark repellents were devised to discourage unfriendly takeover attempts. Popular strategies that killer bees use include:



Flip-In Poison Pill: Existing shareholders are granted the right to purchase additional shares at a discount, thereby diluting the ownership interest of the hostile party and making it harder and more costly for it to gain control. 
White Knight: A friendly company steps in to purchase the target on the verge of being taken over.
Pac-Man: Named after the classic eat-or-be-eaten arcade game, the target company turns the tables on the acquirer by making a takeover bid for it.
Lobster Trap: A provision is passed prohibiting any shareholder with an ownership stake of more than 10 percent from converting convertible securities into voting stock, thus preventing large shareholders from gaining enough votes to force the board to accept the merger.
Poison Put: A bond is issued that investors can redeem in full before its maturity date.



Litigation, such as standstill agreements, might also be used to delay any takeover.


   Criticism of Killer Bees  

Many of the anti-takeover defense strategies that killer bees utilize don't sit well with shareholders. Making the target less attractive or more expensive to buy generally has a habit of eroding shareholder value and potentially crippling the company for years to come.



The drastic nature of some of these measures, and the frequent inability of regular shareholders to vote on them, has led their legality to be questioned. Not all hostile bidders plan to make a quick buck and ruin companies and, in some cases, being taken over by one of them could be more beneficial from a financial standpoint for existing investors.





Important

The strategies killer bees employ are often controversial and not always favorable to shareholders, prompting the courts to occasionally intervene.


   Limitations of Killer Bees  

Over the years, these observations have led the courts to occasionally block companies from employing anti-takeover measures, if they are deemed to be unreasonable. The prospect of intervention from higher powers inevitably means that it is now much harder for killer bees to deliver on their mandates.
What Is the Kimchi Premium?  

The kimchi premium is the gap in cryptocurrency prices in South Korean exchanges compared to other exchanges located globally. The kimchi premium is predominantly seen in the price of the cryptocurrency Bitcoin (BTC).



In other words, the price of Bitcoin might be listed at a higher price on a South Korean exchange than on an exchange located in the United States or Europe. The name "kimchi premium" is a reference to the fermented cabbage dish that is a staple in Korean cuisine.





Key Takeaways

Kimchi premium is the gap in cryptocurrency prices in South Korean exchanges compared to foreign exchanges.The price difference may be caused by a lack of high-return investment options for investors in South Korea.Investors in South Korea can only profit from the kimchi premium by buying Bitcoin abroad and reselling it in South Korea.However, capital controls and financial regulations make profiting from the kimchi premium difficult for South Korean investors.


   Understanding Kimchi Premium  

Prices for Bitcoin can be higher in South Korea than on other international exchanges. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are decentralized assets, meaning they don't trade on a central exchange, unlike equities. A stock that trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) has the same price no matter where in the U.S. it's purchased. However, cryptocurrencies can have different prices quoted across various countries and their exchanges.






The term "kimchi" comes from the popular Korean pickled cabbage dish of that name.


  Kimchi Premium Arbitrage  

Some investors attempt to earn a profit by trading the price differences that exist on different exchanges—a process called arbitrage. Arbitrage is often associated with currency traders who look for mismatches in exchange rates when identifying arbitrage opportunities.



When a trader engages in currency arbitrage, they place trades based on differences in the quotes for a specific currency pair offered by different brokers, rather than placing trades based on the exchange rate movement of the currency pair. If executed perfectly, this kind of trade can be risk-free since the trader is buying and selling two or more currencies simultaneously, making sure there is no open currency exposure.



Arbitrage opportunities are often short-lived because as soon investors (or their trading algorithms) identify the pricing mismatch, they place enough trades to make the arbitrage opportunity no longer profitable.



The arbitrage opportunity that can result from the kimchi premium might be exploited by buying bitcoins on an exchange outside South Korea and then selling the position on a South Korean exchange where Bitcoin's price is higher. However, South Korean traders, would first have to exchange their local currency (Korean won) for another currency, such as U.S. dollars, to purchase bitcoins on an international cryptocurrency exchange. From there, they could sell their bitcoins on a South Korean exchange for a higher price. The process for foreign investors is somewhat easier since they can purchase bitcoins abroad and sell their holdings on a South Korean exchange.


  History of Kimchi Premium  

The kimchi premium in the cryptocurrency market first appeared in 2016, according to a report by the University of Calgary. The findings show that between early 2016 to early 2018, the kimchi premium averaged nearly 4.80% and was as high as nearly 55% in January 2018.



South Korea has become a popular market for cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin trading. The popularity could be due to the country’s interest in technology, as well as gambling, which may have led to open-mindedness and early adoption of digital currencies.



Also leading to the popularity of cryptos is the potential security issues or threats that South Koreans face from North Korea and its leader Kim Jong-un. Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies tend to be favored in countries or regions of the world that face political uncertainty and geopolitical risks. The appeal centers around the decentralized nature of cryptos, meaning they're not owned or controlled by a government entity.



The popularity of Bitcoin has led, in part, to price premiums for the cryptocurrency in South Korea when compared to the price in other countries. A rise in the kimchi premium can be an indicator of increased retail investment in Bitcoin by Korean investors.


   Capital Controls and Kimchi Premium  

The kimchi premium could be eliminated by South Korean investors if they were able to quickly take advantage of the arbitrage opportunity. South Korean investors could buy bitcoins outside of the country on international exchanges and subsequently, sell those positions on local, South Korean exchanges. The result would be a lower price for Bitcoin in South Korea and an increased price on international exchanges leading to an elimination of the arbitrage opportunity.



However, capital controls, financial regulations, and anti-money laundering laws in South Korea make the process difficult. Capital controls are measures taken by central banks and regulatory agencies of governments to restrict the flow of capital—or money—in and out of a country. If a significant amount of capital flees a country due to a geopolitical event or economic upheaval, the result can be devastating to the local economy.  



Foreign investors may not want to hold their money in a country that's going through a challenging period. As foreign investors sell their holdings within that country, the result can lead to depressed real estate prices, a selloff in equity and bond markets, and exacerbate the economic conditions within the country. Capital controls are often put in place to prevent money from leaving the economy in an effort to prevent a massive selloff in domestic assets.


  Capital Controls of South Korea  

The government of South Korea implemented capital controls in 2010 stemming from the global financial crisis and the European debt crisis. The measures were designed to reduce the wild fluctuations or volatility in capital flows that may hurt the economy.



The result is a time delay when sending money internationally due to additional administrative burdens. The amount of money that can move out of the country each year is capped, and the transfer must be approved by regulators.



Even if regulators approved the transfer, the process may take so much time that the arbitrage opportunity is no longer available. Capital controls also limit the inflow of cryptocurrencies by foreign investors, which has created a scenario in which South Koreans can only use digital currencies in their country.


  Impact on Cryptocurrency Trading  

South Koreans and South Korean firms are limited in their international purchases of Bitcoin. If a South Korean trader decided to exchange their currency for a foreign currency in order to purchase a bitcoin on a foreign exchange, the amount of the transaction would likely be capped or could be blocked altogether by regulators if there is suspicion of money laundering.



The impact of South Korean regulation on cryptocurrency trading, as well as the threats of a cryptocurrency ban in China, may have led to the massive sell-off of Bitcoin in January 2018 in which Bitcoin lost nearly 25% of its value in one week. Prices of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies plummeted as South Korea's government signaled that it planned to crack down on cryptocurrency trading. At that time, South Korea was the third-biggest market in the world for bitcoin trades behind Japan and the United States.



It's important to note that determining the volume of Bitcoin trading can be difficult considering that there is no centralized exchange that measures cryptocurrency trading volume. Although the South Korean government has threatened a complete ban, they have also considered alternatives to a complete ban, such as having investors pay capital gains taxes. They may also require investors to register investment accounts in their own names to combat money laundering. 


   Example of Kimchi Premium  

In January 2021, the kimchi premium resurfaced in which Bitcoin prices hit two-year highs on South Korean exchanges. It's estimated that the Bitcoin kimchi premium was approximately 4% in South Korea when comparing South Korea's Upbit exchange and Binance.



By timing a trade precisely, traders could have profited by 4% from the difference in Bitcoin prices by purchasing bitcoins on Binance and selling their position on South Korea's Upbit exchange. It was also reported by Cryptoquant that the price gap between Korean exchanges and international exchanges was more than 6% on January 4th, 2021.




Why Did a Premium on Crypto Emerge in S. Korea?
It is difficult to move large amounts of foreign money into and out of S. Korean exchanges, and banks have strict reporting requirements for moving funds in and out of the country. As a result of the high popularity of crypto in Korea, the prices of certain cryptocurrencies rose as high as 20% above prices elsewhere, a phenomenon that has lasted for several years.




Was the Kimchi Premium Associated with Illegal Money Transfers?
While it was usually assumed that the Kimchi premium was innocuous, caused by technical limitations of the Korean banking system and the popularity of crypto, a new investigation in the summer of 2022 suspects that more than $3.4 billion of illegal foreign transactions in the country stemmed from cryptocurrencies.




Is Bitcoin Banned in South Korea?
No, owning Bitcoin and trading it on regulated exchanges is legal in S. Korea.
What Is Kin?  

Kin is the cryptocurrency for the messaging service Kik. Kin has special uses within the Kik messenger platform. Users can earn Kin for making contributions to the broader Kik community, and then spend Kin on various goods and services within the Kik platform.





Key Takeaways

Kin is the cryptocurrency offered by the messaging service Kik, launched via an ICO in 2017.  The Kin ICO raised roughly $100 million. Kik had a key advantage over certain cryptocurrency competitors as it already had millions of active users through its messaging platform.


   Understanding Kin  

Kin first launched in September of 2017 via an initial coin offering (ICO), raising roughly $100 million in investor funds over a period of about two weeks. Upon its launch, the founders of Kin described the Kin Ecosystem as "designed specifically to bring people together in a new shared economy," with the cryptocurrency itself acting as a "foundation for a decentralized ecosystem of digital services."



While most companies that launch their own cryptocurrency don’t necessarily have a ready-made user base, Kik had a key advantage here with millions of active users through its messaging platform. As such, the platform helped drive consumer adoption of the Kin cryptocurrency. The Kik app can house many of the traditionally third-party services and features for the currency, including the Kin wallet.



Although Kin was officially launched late in 2017, it comes on the heels of a large experimental campaign done by Kik. Over a period of close to three years, Kik ran a project called Kik Points. This was very similar to Kin in that it offered Kik users the chance to earn and spend points within the app itself. At its highest levels, Kik Points reached transaction volumes equal to three times more than Bitcoin. 


  Kin Rewards Engine   

Perhaps even more notable about the launch of Kin is its Kin Rewards Engine. Through that, Kik launched Kin as a daily reward distributed among stakeholders by an algorithm based on the community's contribution to the ecosystem.



Ted Livingston—Kik CEO and founder—suggested that the Kin token is an opportunity to distribute value amongst developers. The idea is that Kik will give away value, incentivizing developers to "build an open and decentralized ecosystem of apps" on the Kik platform.


  The Kin Foundation  

The Kin Foundation focuses on the governance of Kin and focuses on "growing an open ecosystem of digital services." The ecosystem is not be based around advertising, as many social media platforms are, but rather on users being able to provide value to themselves and one another, and on those users being rewarded for that contribution.



Besides being a digital currency, the Kin website describes the token as "different from other digital currencies because it is a cryptocurrency." Kin is similar to Bitcoin in that it makes use of the public blockchain and has monetary value. The fact that Kin is part of a blockchain allows its developers to control the creation and flow of tokens to prevent a surge. Blockchain support also allows a token to be guaranteed over the long term.



 






As of July 12, 2021, Kin was ranked the 323rd cryptocurrency by market cap—per CoinMarketCap.


   Future of Kin   

In 2019, Kik announced it would shut down its messaging service to focus on Kin. However, shortly after the announcement, the company was purchased by MediaLab. The messaging service remained intact, but this came shortly after the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sued Kik for raising money in its Kin ICO without registering the offering. 



In 2020, the SEC ruled that Kik violated federal securities law by selling Kin in 2017 and was ordered to pay a $5 million fine. However, the messaging service was not required to shut down the Kin network, nor required to register Kin with the SEC. Thus, sales of Kin can still take place.
What Is a Kiosk?  

A kiosk refers to a small, temporary, stand-alone booth used in high-traffic areas for marketing purposes. A kiosk is usually manned by one or two individuals who help attract attention to the booth to get new customers. Retail kiosks are frequently located in shopping malls or on busy city streets with significant foot traffic and provide owners with a low-cost alternative to market their products or services.





Key Takeaways

A kiosk refers to a small, temporary, stand-alone booth used in high-traffic areas for marketing purposes.Kiosks may be manned by one or two individuals or may be electronic.These booths are considered to be low-cost marketing strategies that are great alternatives for new, emerging entrepreneurs.The different types of kiosks include employment kiosks, foodservice kiosks, healthcare kiosks, Bitcoin kiosks, and photo kiosks.Kiosks can help raise brand awareness and provide an interactive way for consumers to engage with a company. They can also be frustrating if they are not maintained properly thereby hurting a brand's image.


   Understanding Kiosks  

Kiosks are generally small booths set up in high-traffic areas. You may see them in the walkways of shopping centers. They may be manned by individuals who sell a product or service; anything from toys and hair care products to insurance or credit cards.



Kiosks are not always supervised by humans. Some, in fact, are electronic, providing consumers with a self-service-style experience. These kiosks normally complement an existing service already offered by the kiosk owner. For example, some provincial government agencies in Canada allow the general public to perform certain tasks like renewing car registration or updating personal information for health cards and driver's licenses using electronic kiosks that act much like automated teller machines (ATMs). This allows the consumer to execute these tasks on their own without having to wait in line at a provincial ministry.



Because of their small, temporary natures, kiosks can be low-cost marketing strategies. Malls and other lessors may charge a smaller amount of rent to kiosk owners who might not need or afford a larger retail space. Kiosks can be a great way for new, emerging entrepreneurs to give their businesses a kickstart without sacrificing cost. That's because they give companies a human face and provide customers with the opportunity to ask questions about their products. Electronic kiosks give consumers a hassle-free, convenient experience.


   History of Kiosks  

Kiosks in the form of simple stalls or booths have been around for hundreds of years in one form or another. The first vending machines date back to the 1880s, which is when the idea of self-service was first brought to the public. These vending machines sold simple items, such as gum and postcards.



ATMs first came into use in the 1960s and set the template for how kiosks are known today. These types of machines took a while to catch on as individuals still preferred conducting financial transactions in person.



In 1970, IBM partnered with American Airlines and American Express to create the first airline ticket self-service kiosk. In 1977, the first complete self-service interactive kiosk was established at the University of Illinois, providing campus information to students and visitors.



In 1985, the Florsheim Shoe Company established the first network of kiosks. It consisted of 600 kiosks where shoppers could search for shoes in other locations, pay for them, and have them directly shipped to their homes.


   Types of Kiosks  

Kiosks vary based on the nature of the business and whether the owner intends to make it electronic or man it with individuals. The location generally has a relation to the nature of the kiosk as well. A local newspaper might set up a kiosk at a grocery store to sign up new subscribers. Similarly, credit card companies often set up kiosks in airports to seek new customers for a credit card that offers frequent-flyer miles.


  Employment Kiosks  

In addition to kiosks that sell retail products or services, some companies set up employment kiosks where job seekers can apply for work. This type of kiosk is especially common in chain stores such as Walmart. Employment kiosks provide a way to quickly identify promising candidates, who will often receive an interview on the spot.



The kiosk may include a computer station at which the applicant can use a keyboard or touchscreen to input their employment history, education, and personal data. Some employment kiosks also administer assessment tests to help determine an applicant's strengths and weaknesses. Information collected at the kiosk is frequently available to the hiring manager almost immediately.


  Food Service Kiosks  

In an effort to streamline the process of taking food orders, some restaurants install self-service kiosks. Customers can follow interactive prompts to select their meal and customize their order. The kiosks usually accept credit or debit cards, eliminating the need for a human cashier. When restaurants use kiosks, the need for counter personnel is reduced, lowering payroll costs for the company.


  Healthcare Kiosks  

The healthcare industry is also starting to implement kiosks as a method for accepting bill payments, checking in patients for appointments, and patient record keeping. At some kiosks, patients can even take their own blood pressure or perform other non-invasive tests and then relay the results to their doctors. In some cases, medical kiosks also offer educational videos about medical conditions and their treatments.



Patient kiosks can reduce medical costs by cutting down on paperwork and eliminating some clerical staff positions. Critics of medical kiosks are primarily concerned with patient confidentiality in their arguments against their use.


  Bitcoin Kiosks  

A Bitcoin kiosk, also known as a Bitcoin ATM, is a kiosk connected to the Internet that allows individuals to purchase Bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies with cash they have deposited. The kiosk permits users to create a blockchain-based transaction that will send a cryptocurrency to the user's digital wallet. The Bitcoin kiosks are not actually ATMs in that they do not allow for the withdrawal or deposit of cash but rather function as a means to connect to the Internet to purchase cryptocurrencies.


  Photo Kiosks  

Although not as common as they once were, photo kiosks were popular in shopping centers in the 1980s and 1990s. For a small fee, people could pose in front of a camera lens that would take three to four photographs. Customers waited for a few moments while the booth developed and ejected the photos. Automatic photo kiosks also serve another purpose, allowing people to develop and print their own photographs from DVDs, portable hard drives, and memory sticks.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Kiosks  
  Advantages  

The primary advantage of a kiosk is that it improves the customer's shopping experience. Kiosks are easily accessible and the individuals working there are usually pleasant and ready to help, both of which make it simpler to provide the customer with detailed information on your product or service.



Another advantage is that because of their small size and ease of being built, kiosks can be strategically placed in a location that will receive a lot of foot traffic, thereby increasing your customer base. The more visible and accessible your business is, the likelier you will experience growth.



Kiosks can also reduce your business costs. The use of interactive kiosks removes the need for staff, thereby cutting down on employee wages and salaries. Kiosks also don't require the same costs of renting retail space in a shopping center or storefront, thereby reducing rental costs. The costs saved on labor and rent can be used in other aspects of growing your business, such as sales and marketing.



Kiosks also work as a branding tool and can help generate interest in your product. Uniquely designed kiosks, especially interactive ones, may attract new customers through sheer curiosity. A kiosk that provides a unique experience may generate goodwill with a consumer and raise awareness of your brand and product.


  Disadvantages  

Kiosks may keep those customers away that prefer to deal with actual people rather than machines. This is particularly true for self-service kiosks, which may sometimes be difficult to operate for those that are not tech-savvy and may increase their frustration.



Larger, built-out kiosks may be difficult to move if needed as they are established in one place. This would require increased costs of taking it down and moving it or the need to build a new kiosk in another location.



Kiosks that do not have actual staff working there may be subject to an increase in crime, such as shoplifting and vandalism. This would require incorporating security measures, whether that be security alarms, cameras, or guards.



Kiosks will always require maintenance. Those that break down or have technical issues without an employee on hand to fix them or assist the shopper could hurt business and leave customers with a bad user experience, hurting your brand.





Pros

Improves customer shopping experience
Can increase customer base
Can reduce business costs
Helps improve branding



Cons

Can deter customers that prefer interacting with humans
Large, hardware-heavy kiosks can be expensive and difficult to move
Subject to shoplifting and vandalism
Kiosks with technical difficulties can hurt a brand





   Kiosk FAQs  
  How Much Does It Cost to Rent a Kiosk at the Mall?  

The cost depends on the location of the mall, the season of the year, and the product being sold. The cost is at least $800 per month but can reach the thousands. Some malls also ask for a percentage of sales.


  What Is a Global Entry Kiosk at the Airport?  

Global Entry is a program by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agency that allows for expedited clearance for pre-approved travelers when they enter the U.S. There are self-service Global Entry kiosks at international airports in the U.S. that allow for entry after a quick approval.


  What Can You Do at a USPS Self-Service Kiosk?  

The USPS self-service kiosks allow for the purchase of stamps, the weighing of packages, the printing of Priority shipping labels, and the shipping of items.


  What Is Kiosk Mode?  

Kiosk mode is a mode that is offered by different web browsers. This allows the browser to be viewed in full screen without any other interface, such as a toolbar or menu. The purpose is to run the content on the entire screen and prevent the user from using the screen or kiosk for any other purpose.


   The Bottom Line  

Kiosks are small, temporary booths placed in areas with high foot traffic that are used by businesses to reach their customers in a more simple and informal manner. Kiosks are primarily used for marketing purposes and can be staffed by individuals or self-service. They are typically low-cost and help brands raise awareness of their products and services as well as allowing for an interactive way for consumers to engage with the company.
What Is Kiting?  

Kiting is the fraudulent use of a financial instrument to obtain additional credit that is not authorized. Kiting encompasses two main types of fraud:



Issuing or altering a check or bank draft, for which there are insufficient funds.
Misrepresenting the value of a financial instrument for the purpose of extending credit obligations or increasing financial leverage.





Key Takeaways

Kiting involves the illegal use of financial instruments to fraudulently obtain additional credit.Securities firms "kite" if they fail to follow SEC rules around obtaining securities in a timely way.Check kiting targets banks or retailers through a series of bad checks, sometimes drawn on multiple accounts.


   Check Kiting Involving Banks  

Carried out within the banking system, kiting typically involves passing a series of checks at two or more banking institutions, using accounts that have insufficient funds. Relying on the float time required for a check deposited at one bank to clear at another, the kiter typically writes a check at the first bank against an account at the other.



Before that check clears, they then withdraw the funds from the second bank account and deposit the funds back into the first. The process may then be repeated in the opposite order, sometimes repeatedly. The net result is a series of fraudulent withdrawals that rely on being a step ahead of the fraudulent check on which they are based having cleared.



Reduced times for checks to clear has helped reduce the incidence of check kiting involving banks, as have such practices as banks placing holds on deposited funds and charging for returned checks.


   Retail Kiting  

A variant of check kiting is known as "retail kiting." This relies on cashing a bad check (number one) at a retailer to purchase an item. Then, before that check has cleared, the kiter writes another check (number two), which may include (or entirely comprise) a cashback payment. While cashback is now most often associated with debit cards, some retailers still offer this convenience with checks.



The cash from check number two is then deposited into the account, to allow check number one to clear. The fraud is then repeated in order to cover check number two and may be sustained in order to stay ahead of the float and fraudulently obtain a series of items and cash withdrawals.


   Kiting With Securities  

Kiting that involves misrepresenting securities generally occurs when securities firms flout SEC regulations regarding the timely delivery of buy-and-sell transactions, which must be completed within a three-day settlement period. If a firm fails to receive the securities within that timeframe, it is required to purchase the shortage on the open market and charge the delinquent firm for any associated fees.



The delinquent firm is considered to be practicing the fraudulent act of kiting if it fails to purchase the securities on the open market and maintains a short position, delays delivery, or takes part in transactions contrary to the proper settlement of trades.
What Is the NZD (New Zealand Dollar)?  

The New Zealand dollar (NZD) is the official currency of New Zealand. NZD is made up of 100 cents and is often represented by the symbol $ or NZ$ to set it apart from other currencies based on dollars. NZD also sees use in the Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau, and the Pitcairn Islands.





Key Takeaways

The New Zealand currency is known as the New Zealand dollar (NZD).New Zealand used to use the British monetary format, which was pounds, shilling, and pence, until 1967, when it switched to dollar-based money.The New Zealand dollar went through a series of changes in a fixed exchange rate with the U.S. dollar until March of 1985 when the currency was allowed to float freely.Since 1999, the New Zealand government has produced polymer or plastic versions of the New Zealand dollar, which has made the note more secure against counterfeiting.


   Understanding the NZD (New Zealand Dollar)  

Decimalization of the NZD (division into 100 cents) took place in 1967 when the New Zealand dollar replaced the New Zealand pound at a rate of two dollars to one pound. Initially pegged to the United States dollar, NZD went through a series of changes in the fixed exchange rate until March of 1985, when the currency was allowed to float freely.



New Zealand currency has had a long history of over 160 years. In fact, during the 1800s, New Zealand used its coins and banknotes before British currency was even legal currency. However, nothing was made official until 1933, when New Zealand issued their first official coins, based on the British pound, shilling, and pence.



The first coins had pictures of the native birds of New Zealand on the “tails” side, a tradition that has continued, with the British monarch on the head side.






The NZD is affectionately referred to as the 'Kiwi,' in honor of a flightless bird called a kiwi, which is pictured on one side of the country's $1 coin.



In 1934, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand was established, becoming the only supplier of banknotes. The original notes had a variety of designs, including that of a kiwi, the nation’s Coat of Arms, Maori King Tawhiao, and Fiordland's Mitre Peak.



It took another 30 years before the Reserve Bank replaced the currency of pounds, shillings, and pence with actual dollars and cents. In the year 1967 alone, the Bank printed 27 million new banknotes and 165 million new coins.



The NZD currency has a long history of colorful and vibrant money and, since its first issuing, has changed its printed design several times. In 1992, the images of Queen Elizabeth on all of the banknotes were altered to reflect prominent citizens of New Zealand such as Edmund Hillary, Kate Sheppard, Apirana Ngata, and Ernest Rutherford, along with local birds and plants on the backs of the notes.



Since 1999, the New Zealand government has produced polymer or plastic versions of the New Zealand dollar, which has made the note more secure against counterfeiting. In addition, the new polymer composition has increased the longevity of the note.



It is estimated that the polymer note lasts four times longer than regular linen or paper notes. Interestingly, the polymer note can go through a washing machine without suffering any material damage. In 2016, the currency had its most recent update, with even more bright colors and updated security features.


   NZD/USD  

The value of the NZD/USD pair is quoted as 1 New Zealand dollar per X U.S. dollars. For example, if the pair is trading at 1.50, it means that it takes 1.5 U.S. dollars to buy 1 New Zealand dollar.



NZD/USD is affected by factors that influence the value of the New Zealand dollar and/or the U.S. dollar in relation to each other and other currencies. For this reason, the interest rate differential between the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) and the Federal Reserve (Fed) will affect the value of these currencies when compared to each other.



When the Fed intervenes in open market activities to make the U.S. dollar stronger, for example, the value of the NZD/USD cross could decline, due to a strengthening of the U.S. dollar when compared to the New Zealand dollar.






The NZD/USD tends to have a positive correlation to its neighbor, the Australian dollar (AUD/USD).



The New Zealand dollar is considered a carry-trade currency in that it is relatively high-yielding so investors will often buy the NZD and fund it with a lower-yielding currency such as the Japanese yen or the Swiss franc.



Evidence of this was prevalent during the financial crisis when the NZD was one of many high-yielding currencies that fell during 2008 and 2009. Margin trading positions on the NZD/Japanese yen exchange rate rose steadily during 2007-08, as Japanese investors took advantage of the wide differential between New Zealand and Japanese interest rates.



During the turbulence in global financial markets during mid to late 2008, the cumulative net long positions held by Japanese margin traders in the NZD fell by nearly 90%.



Other factors affecting the NZD are dairy prices and tourism numbers. New Zealand is one of the world's biggest exporters of whole milk powder. This means that if milk prices are on the rise the New Zealand economy is likely to be doing well, which will push up the currency.



Tourism is another staple of the New Zealand economy. So as the number of visitors to New Zealand rises, the economy does well and the currency appreciates.




What Is the Abbreviation for New Zealand Currency?
The abbreviation for the New Zealand currency is "NZD."




Why Is the NZD So Strong?
The strength of a currency tends to fluctuate so the strength of the NZD may not always be so strong. However, overall, NZD is considered a stable currency due to the strength of the New Zealand economy and its outlook. Tourism is a strong economic driving force for New Zealand, so when tourism is doing well in the country, the currency will tend to be stronger. Other economic factors, such as growth rate, GDP, unemployment, and inflation are strong and, therefore, lead to a strong currency.




Are New Zealand Dollars One of the Best Currencies To Trade?
NZD is one of the most traded currencies in the world, making it a liquid currency in forex markets. New Zealand has a high FX turnover when compared to GDP due to international traders seeking yield, New Zealand having many companies and banks that are owned by international companies, resulting in currency swaps to minimize FX risk, export and imports being a large part of the New Zealand economy, and because New Zealand companies and organizations borrow heavily from international markets.




What Does New Zealand’s Currency Look Like?
Each banknote and coin of New Zealand's currency looks different. The currency usually has a bird on one side of a banknote or coin as well as an important historical figure of New Zealand. The currency also comes in very bright colors.
What Is Kiwi Bond?  

The term Kiwi Bond refers to a type of fixed income security offered and backed by the government of New Zealand. Kiwi Bonds provide investors with a fixed rate of interest for a set period of time—anywhere from six months to four years—and may be purchased for as little as NZ$1,000 up a maximum of NZ$500,000. These securities are only available to residents of New Zealand.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A kiwi bond is a type of security offered directly to the public and available only to New Zealand residents.Kiwi bonds are denominated in New Zealand dollars with a fixed interest rate that is paid quarterly in arrears.Maturity dates for bonds are six-months, one-year, two-years, and four-years.Investors can purchase bonds for as little as NZ$1,000, with a maximum investment of NZ$500,000 on any single issue.


   How Kiwi Bonds Work  

It may seem like an exotic and whimsical name for an investment security, but it actually makes sense that they're called Kiwi Bonds when you consider the history and culture of the region where they originate. New Zealanders are often referred to as Kiwis, which is viewed as a term of endearment. A kiwi is a bird that is native to the region. The country’s national rugby league team is also called the Kiwis.



Kiwi bonds are the main investment option available to individual investors living in New Zealand. As noted above, they are fully backed and secured by the country's government, which means they provide a higher degree of security for investors than bank-issued and corporate bonds. That's because there is little to no chance that the government will default on its obligations. The downside, though, is that Kiwi Bonds offer much lower interest rates than other bonds.



Kiwi bonds are denominated in New Zealand dollars (NZD) and mature in six months, one year, two years, and four years. Bonds may be redeemed upon maturity or whenever the bondholder chooses to do so. The government of New Zealand requires a minimum investment of NZ$1,000 with a maximum investment of NZ$500,000 for any single issue.


  Interest  

Interest is paid at a fixed rate quarterly in arrears. Interest rates for Kiwi bonds are set periodically by the New Zealand Debt Management Office based on moving averages of domestic wholesale rates. As of February 2021, six-month and one-year bonds offered a return of 0.25% while two-year and four-year bonds offered a 0.50% return.



Application forms and investment statements are available from the New Zealand Debt Management Office Registry. Interested investors may also get information on these bonds as domestic registered banks, investment firms, brokerage companies, chartered accountants (CAs), solicitors, and investment advisors.


   Special Considerations  

The New Zealand government limits who is eligible to purchase Kiwi Bonds. In fact, they are only available to residents of New Zealand. This means foreign investors are not able to purchase these bonds. Similarly, citizens of New Zealand who live abroad are also ineligible to invest in them.






Since Kiwi Bonds are only open to New Zealand residents, citizens who live abroad are excluded from purchasing them.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Kiwi Bonds  

Financial experts and advisors frequently tout the advantages of investing in Kiwi Bonds. They often paint them as a sort of sleeper hit since they seemed to quietly fly under the radar of many investors. But they are known for offering attractive potential rewards to those investors savvy enough to appreciate their benefits.



While markets and national financial systems in other parts of the world grappled with an assortment of natural and economic disasters causing unpredictable fluctuations in investing activities, New Zealand’s economy remained stable and steady, quietly enjoying positive growth and few disruptions.



Their relatively low level of risk, combined with the fact that New Zealand has a central bank that has earned the trust of the global financial community, created the perfect scenario for those seeking an appealing investment option. At least, for those investors observant enough to be paying attention. New Zealand was ahead of the curve in dealing with the 2020 crisis that has ravaged the global economy, which should further bolster confidence in that nation's debt instruments going forward.



Although they provide a guaranteed investment return as well as security, there is a downside to investing in these bonds. As mentioned above, they do provide a very low rate of return (RoR). This means investors who want to make a decent profit off their investments in a short period of time—and those who can tolerate a greater degree of risk—likely won't want to put their money in these bonds. Other bonds, such as those offered by banks and large corporations, will likely be a better fit for these kinds of investors.
What Is the Klinger Oscillator?  

The Klinger oscillator was developed by Stephen Klinger to determine the long-term trend of money flow while remaining sensitive enough to detect short-term fluctuations. The indicator compares the volume flowing through securities with the security's price movements and then converts the result into an oscillator. The Klinger oscillator shows the difference between two moving averages which are based on more than price. Traders watch for divergence on the indicator to signal potential price reversals. Like other oscillators, a signal line can be added to provide additional trade signals.



Traders will use tools such as trendlines, moving averages, and other indicators to confirm trade signals. In addition, traders may use the oscillator in conjunction with chart patterns, such as price channels or triangles, as a way to confirm a breakout or breakdown. Crossovers occur frequently, as do divergences, so the indicator is best used in conjunction with these other technical trading methods.


   Formula for the Klinger Oscillator  

﻿















K


O


=


3


4


 Period 


E


M


A


 of 


V


F


−


5


5


 Period EMA of 


V


F
















where:
















KO


=


 Klinger Oscillator
















VF


=


 Volume Force
















Volume Force 


=


V


×


[


2


×


(


(


d


m


/


c


m


)


−


1


)


]


×


T


×


1


0


0
















V


=


 Volume
















T


=


 Trend
















Trend


=


+


1


 if 


(


H


+


L


+


C


)


>


(



H



−


1




+



L



−


1




+


C



v



−


1




)
















Trend


=


−


1


 if Above is 


<


 or 


=
















H


=


 High
















L


=


 Low
















C


=


 Close
















d


m


=


H


−


L
















c


m


=


c



m



−


1




+


d


m


 if Trend 


=



 Trend



−


1










\begin{aligned} &KO = 34 \text{ Period }EMA\text{ of }VF - 55\text{ Period EMA of }VF\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{KO} =\text{ Klinger Oscillator}\\ &\text{VF} =\text{ Volume Force}\\ &\text{Volume Force }= V \times [2 \times ((dm/cm) - 1)] \times T \times 100\\ &V =\text{ Volume}\\ &T =\text{ Trend}\\ & \text{Trend} =+1\text{ if }(H + L + C) > (H_{-1} + L_{-1} + Cv_{-1})\\ &\text{Trend} =-1 \text{ if Above is }<\text{ or }=\\ &H =\text{ High}\\ &L =\text{ Low}\\ &C =\text{ Close}\\ &dm = H-L\\ &cm =cm_{-1} +dm\text{ if Trend }=\text{ Trend}_{-1}\\ &cm = dm_{-1} + dm\text{ if Trend }=/= \text{ Trend}_{-1} \end{aligned}


​KO=34 Period EMA of VF−55 Period EMA of VFwhere:KO= Klinger OscillatorVF= Volume ForceVolume Force =V×[2×((dm/cm)−1)]×T×100V= VolumeT= TrendTrend=+1 if (H+L+C)>(H−1​+L−1​+Cv−1​)Trend=−1 if Above is < or =H= HighL= LowC= Closedm=H−Lcm=cm−1​+dm if Trend = Trend−1​​﻿


   Calculating the Klinger Oscillator  

Note volume for the period, as well as the high, low and close prices.Compare this to the prior period to determine if Trend is positive to negative.Calculate dm using the current period's high and low.Calculate cm using dm and the prior cm value. For the first calculation use dm in place of the prior cm value if necessary.Calculate for volume force (VF).Calculate the 34- and 55-period EMAs of VF.Klinger used the following formula for the EMA:



﻿















E


M


A


=


(


C


×


A


)


+


(


E


×


B


)
















where:
















C


=


 Current period’s VF





















A


=


 









2


/


(


X


+


1


)


, where 


X


 is the moving average





















E


=


Prior period’s 


E


M


A








\begin{aligned} &EMA = (C \times A) + (E \times B)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &C=\text{ Current period's VF}\\ &\begin{aligned} A =\ &2/(X+1)\text{, where }X\text{ is the moving average}\\ &\text{ period (34 or 55)}\end{aligned}\\ &E = \text{Prior period's }EMA\\ &B=1-A \end{aligned}


​EMA=(C×A)+(E×B)where:C= Current period’s VFA= ​2/(X+1), where X is the moving average​E=Prior period’s EMA​﻿


   Interpretations for Price Direction  

The Klinger Oscillator is fairly complex to calculate, but it's based on the idea of force volume, which accounts for volume, trend (positive or negative), and temp (based on multiple inputs and if/then statements). Using this data, the oscillator is created by looking at the difference between two exponential moving averages of force volume involving different time frames (typically 34 and 55). The idea is to show how the volume flowing through the securities is impacting its long-term and short-term price direction.


  The Signal Line  

A signal line (13-period moving average) is used to trigger buy or sell signals. This technique is very similar to signals that are created with other indicators such as the moving average convergence divergence (MACD). While these are the basic signals generated by these indicators, it's important to note that these techniques may generate a lot of trading signals that may not be as effective in sideways markets.


  The Uptrend  

When an asset is in an overall uptrend—such as when it is above its 100-period moving average and the Klinger is above zero or moving above zero—traders could buy when the Klinger oscillator moves above the signal line from below.



Klinger noted that when a stock was in an uptrend, and then dropped to unusually low levels below zero, and then moved above its signal line, this was a favorable long position to take.


  The Downtrend  

When an asset is in an overall downtrend, traders could sell or short-sell when the Klinger oscillator moves below the signal line from above. Klinger noted this was especially noteworthy when the indicator had seen an uncharacteristic spike above zero.



The zero line is also used by some traders to mark the transition from an uptrend to downtrend, or vice versa. While such signals won't always agree with price movements, a move above zero helps confirm a rising price, while a drop below zero helps confirm a falling price.


  Klinger Oscillator and Divergence  

The Klinger oscillator also uses divergence to identify when the indicator's inputs are not confirming the direction of the price move. It's a bullish sign when the value of the indicator is heading upward while the price of the security continues to fall. It is a bearish signal when the price is rising but the indicator is falling. Divergence can be coupled with signal line crossovers to generate trades. For example, if a bearish divergence forms, a sell or short-sell could be initiated the next time the Klinger crosses below the signal line.


   Klinger Oscillator vs. On Balance Volume  

The Klinger oscillator uses price and volume to create two EMAs. The indicator then shows the difference between these two EMAs. A signal line is then added to provide additional trade signals. On balance volume is simpler in that it is a running total of positive or negative volume. Positive volume is added to the running total if the current close is above the prior close, or volume is subtracted from the running total if the current close is below the prior close.


   Klinger Oscillator Limitations  

Crossovers and divergence, the two main functions of the oscillator, are prone to providing many false signals.



Signal line crossovers are so frequent that it is hard to filter out which ones are worth trading and which ones aren't. Zero line crossovers also have issues, as the indicator may criss-cross the zero line multiple times before moving in a sustained direction, or the indicator may fail to move with the price resulting in a missed trading opportunity.



Divergence can be useful, but often occurs too early, resulting in the trader missing a large chunk of the trend, or the divergence fails to result in a price reversal at all. Also, divergence is not present at all price reversals, so it is not a reliable tool for spotting all possible price reversals.



Use the Klinger oscillator only in conjunction with other technical indicators or price action analysis.
What Is the Comorian Franc (KMF)?  

The term Comorian franc (KMF) refers to the official national currency of Comoros, a sovereign African island nation located in the Indian Ocean. It is maintained and issued by the country's central bank, la Banque Centrale des Comores. It is represented by the symbol KMF on global currency exchanges. The Comorian franc was pegged to the euro as of 1999 at a rate of 491.96775 Comorian francs to one euro. As of January 2022, $1 U.S. is equal to roughly 437 KMF.





Key Takeaways

The Comorian franc is the official currency of the African island nation of Comoros.The Comoros franc is pegged to the euro at an effective rate of about 492 KMF to 1 EUR.One franc is divided into 100 centimes, although no centimes have ever been issued.Comoros is one of the poorest countries in the world, with high unemployment and low levels of education.


   Understanding the Comorian Franc (KMF)  

The franc is the official national currency of the island archipelago of Comoros. The country's central bank is responsible for maintaining its value and is in charge of its circulation. The bank, called la Banque Centrale des Comores, was established in 1981, six years after the country gained its independence. The central bank is located in the capital of Moroni.



Banknotes are printed in various denominations ranging from the 500, 1000, 2000, 5000, and 10,000 franc notes. The country also uses coins, which are minted in 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, 50, 100 franc denominations. A single franc is divided into 100 centimes, although no centimes have ever been issued or used.



The KMF is pegged to the euro. This relationship was established when the European Union adopted the euro in 1999. The exchange rate was fixed—and remains as such—at 491.96775 francs to one euro. Prior to this, the Comorian franc was pegged to the French franc at a rate of 50 KMF to 1 French franc. Currency rankings show that the KMF is most often exchanged with the United States dollar (USD).






Although the Comorian franc is pegged to the euro, it is most often exchanged with the U.S. dollar.



Cash is predominantly used in the island nation. Larger establishments, such as hotels, may take credit cards. Transactions are executed in the local currency, although there are some merchants who accept both the U.S. dollar and the euro along with the Comoros franc. Change, however, is given in the KMF.


   Special Considerations  

Comoros has one of the poorest and smallest economies in the world. The island’s workforce has a low level of education, and there are not enough natural resources available either for residents or to use as exports.



The primary industries of the nation, fishing, and tourism, are vulnerable to the region’s extreme weather conditions and sporadic volcanic activity. As a result, despite a relatively low rate of unemployment of 8.4% in 2020, approximately 42% of its 864,335 citizens live below the poverty line. The population of Comoros is largely young—approximately 37% of residents are 14 years old or younger.



Agriculture is crucial to the local economy of Comoros, as is the income generated by its three major exports, vanilla, cloves, and a perfume essence known as ylang-ylang. Despite the archipelago’s arable land, fertile soil, and large fishing industry, the country still imports around 70% of its food. For 2020, Comoros saw real GDP growth of 3.1% with inflation at -0.9%.


  History of Comoros  

Comoros was initially part of a French colony, which included Madagascar, when the island of Mayotte was purchased in 1841, but the first Europeans to discover the archipelago were Portuguese in the year 1505. As a French colony, the money used was the French franc.



In 1920, Comorian currency was first printed on an emergency basis on a series of Madagascar postage stamps that had been altered to become legal tender and circulate as money in exchange. The Comorian franc was first formally issued in the 1960s and has appeared in both coin and bill form in various denominations. Coins dedicated specifically to Comoros were issued in the early 1960s, and Arabic printing has been stamped on them since 1975.



The Union of Comoros is made of three islands: Anjouan, Moheli, and Grande Comore. A fourth island, Mayotte, was part of the archipelago union until 1975, when the Comoros Union declared its independence from France. However, France did not recognize the independence of Mayotte, and the island remains under French administration to this day.
What is a Knock-In Option?  

A knock-in option is a latent option contract that begins to function as a normal option ("knocks in") only once a certain price level is reached before expiration. Knock-ins are a type of barrier option that are classified as either a down-and-in or an up-and-in. A barrier option is a type of contract in which the payoff depends on the underlying security's price and whether it hits a certain price within a specified period.





Key Takeaways

A knock-in option is a type of barrier option which is triggered only after the underlying asset's price reaches a certain specified barrier.There are two types of knock-in options: down-and-in and up-and-in. In the former, the option is triggered only if the underlying asset's price falls below a certain level. The latter type of option is triggered only after an underlying asset's price rises to a certain level.


   Understanding Knock-In Options  

Knock-in options are one of the two main types of barrier options, with the other type being knock-out options.



A knock-in option is a type of contract that is not an option until a certain price is met. So if the price is never reached, it is as if the contract never existed. However, if the underlying asset reaches a specified barrier, the knock-in option comes into existence. The difference between a knock-in and knock-out option is that a knock-in option comes into existence only when the underlying security reaches a barrier, while a knock-out option ceases to exist when the underlying security reaches a barrier.



Barrier options typically have cheaper premiums than traditional vanilla options, primarily because the barrier increases the chances of the option expiring worthless. A trader may choose the cheaper (relative to a comparable vanilla) barrier option if they feel it is quite likely the underlying will hit the barrier.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 


   Down-and-In Knock-In Option  

Assume an investor purchases a down-and-in put option with a barrier price of $90 and a strike price of $100. The underlying security is trading at $110, and the option expires in three months. If the price of the underlying security reaches $90, the option comes into existence and becomes a vanilla option with a strike price of $100. Thereafter, the holder of the option has the right to sell the underlying asset at the strike price of $100, even though it is trading below $90. It is this right that gives the option value.



The put option remains active until the expiration date, even if the underlying security rebounds back above $90. However, if the underlying asset does not fall below the barrier price during the life of the contract, the down-and-in option expires worthless. Just because the barrier is reached does not assure a profit on the trade since the underlying would need to stay below $100 (after triggering the barrier) in order for the option to have value.


   Up-and-In Knock-In Option  

Contrary to a down-and-in option, an up-and-in option comes into existence only if the underlying reaches a barrier price that is above the current underlying's price. For example, assume a trader purchases a one-month up-and-in call option on an underlying asset when it is trading at $40 per share. The up-and-in call option contract has a strike price of $50 and a barrier of $55. If the underlying asset does not reach $55 during the life of the option contract, it expires worthless. However, if the underlying asset rises to $55 or above, the call option would come into existence and the trader would be in the money.
What Is a Knock-Out Option?  

A knock-out option is an option with a built-in mechanism to expire worthless if a specified price level in the underlying asset is reached. A knock-out option sets a cap on the level an option can reach in the holder's favor.



As knock-out options limit the profit potential for the option buyer, they can be purchased for a smaller premium than an equivalent option without a knock-out stipulation.



A knock-out can be compared with a knock-in option.





Key Takeaways

Knock-out options are a type of barrier option, which expire worthless if the underlying asset's price exceeds or falls below a specified price.The two types of knock-out options are up-and-out barrier options and down-and-out options.Knock-out options limit losses, but also potential profits.


   Understanding a Knock-Out Option  

A knock-out option is a type of barrier option. Barrier options are typically classified as either knock-out or knock-in. A knock-out option ceases to exist if the underlying asset reaches a predetermined barrier during its life. A knock-in option is effectively the opposite of the knock-out. Here, the option is activated only if the underlying asset reaches a predetermined barrier price.



Knock-out options are considered to be exotic options, and they are primarily used in commodity and currency markets by large institutions. They also may be traded in the over-the-counter (OTC) market.


   Types of Knock-Out Options  

Knock-out options come in two basic types:


  Down-and-Out Option  

A down-and-out option is one variety. It gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell an underlying asset at a predetermined strike price—if the underlying asset's price does not go below a specified barrier during the option's life. Should the underlying asset's price fall below the barrier at any point in the option's life, the option expires worthless.



For example, assume an investor purchases a down-and-out call option on a stock that is trading at $60, with a strike price of $55 and a barrier of $50. If the stock trades below $50, at any time, before the call option expires then the down-and-out call option promptly ceases to exist. 


  Up-and-Out Option  

Contrary to a down-and-out barrier option, an up-and-out barrier option gives the holder the right to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specified strike price if the asset has not exceeded a specified barrier during the option's life. An up-and-out option is only knocked out if the price of the underlying asset moves above the barrier.



Assume an investor purchases an up-and-out put option on a stock trading at $40, with a strike price of $30 and a barrier of $45. Over the life of the option, the stock hits a high of $46 but then drops to $20 per share. Too bad: the option still would automatically expire because the barrier of $45 had been breached. Now, if the stock hadn't gone above $45 and eventually sold off to $20, then the option would remain in place and have value to the holder.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Knock-Out Options  

A knock-out option may be used for several different reasons. As mentioned, the premiums on these options are typically cheaper than a non-knock-out counterpart. A trader may also feel that the odds of the underlying asset hitting the barrier price is remote and conclude that the cheaper option is worth the risk of unlikely being knocked out of the trade. 



Finally, these types of options may also be beneficial to institutions that are only interested in hedging up or down to very specific prices or have very narrow tolerances for risk.





Pros

Have lower premiums
Limit losses
Good for specific hedge/risk-management strategies



Cons

Vulnerable in volatile markets
Limit profits
Exotic options often less accessible to investors






Knock-out options limit losses. However, as is often the case, buffers on the downside also limit profits on the upside. Moreover, the knock-out feature is triggered even if the designated level is breached only briefly. That can prove dangerous in volatile markets.


   Knock-Out Option Example  

Let's say an investor is interested in Levi Strauss & Co., which went public on March 21, 2019, at $17 a share. By May 2, it closed at $22.92 per share. Say our investor is bullish on the historic jeans maker, but still cautious.



The investor may write a call option at $23 per share with a strike price of $33 and a knock-out level of $43. This option only allows the option holder (buyer) to profit as the underlying stock moves up to $43, at which point the option expires worthless, thus limiting the loss potential for the option writer (seller).
What Is the Know Sure Thing (KST)?  

The Know Sure Thing (KST) is a momentum oscillator developed by Martin Pring to make rate-of-change readings easier for traders to interpret.





Key Takeaways

The Know Sure Thing (KST) is a momentum oscillator intended to interpret rate-of-change price data.Trading signals are generated when the KST crosses over the signal line, but traders also look for overbought or oversold conditions.Traders also combine the KST with other technical analysis to maximize their odds of a successful trade.


   Calculating the Know Sure Thing (KST)  

The KST is calculated by taking the simple moving average (SMA) of four different rate-of-change (ROC) periods, adding them together to come up with the KST, and creating a signal line by taking the 9-period SMA of the KST.



The KST is calculated with the following equation:


















KST


=


(


RCMA #1


×


1


)


+


(


RCMA #2


×


2


)


 


+

















KST


=



(


RCMA #3


×


3


)


+


(


RCMA #4


×


4


)
















where:
















RCMA #1


=


10-period SMA of 10-period ROC
















RCMA #2


=


10-period SMA of 15-period ROC
















RCMA #3


=


10-period SMA of 20-period ROC
















RCMA #4


=


15-period SMA of 30-period ROC







\begin{aligned} &\text{KST} = ( \text{RCMA \#1} \times 1 ) + ( \text{RCMA \#2} \times 2 ) \ + \\ &\phantom { \text{KST} = } (\text{RCMA \#3} \times 3 ) + ( \text{RCMA \#4} \times 4) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{RCMA \#1} = \text{10-period SMA of 10-period ROC} \\ &\text{RCMA \#2} = \text{10-period SMA of 15-period ROC} \\ &\text{RCMA \#3} = \text{10-period SMA of 20-period ROC} \\ &\text{RCMA \#4} = \text{15-period SMA of 30-period ROC} \\ \end{aligned}


​KST=(RCMA #1×1)+(RCMA #2×2) +KST=(RCMA #3×3)+(RCMA #4×4)where:RCMA #1=10-period SMA of 10-period ROCRCMA #2=10-period SMA of 15-period ROCRCMA #3=10-period SMA of 20-period ROCRCMA #4=15-period SMA of 30-period ROC​



Finally, the signal line is calculated by taking the 9-period SMA of the KST value.


   Understanding the Know Sure Thing (KST)  

The KST indicator can be used in the same manner as many other momentum oscillators, such as the well-known relative strength index (RSI). Trading signals are generated when the KST crosses over the signal line, but traders may also look for convergence and divergence with the price, overbought or oversold conditions, or crossovers of the center line.



Many traders combine the KST indicator with other forms of technical analysis to maximize their odds of success. For example, traders may look at other non-momentum indicators, chart patterns, or candlestick patterns to help in their decision-making.






In a 1992 Stocks and Commodities article, Pring referred to the indicator as "Summed Rate of Change (KST)," but the KST term stuck with technical analysts.


   Example of the Know Sure Thing (KST)  

Let's take a look at an example chart:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In the example above, the KST indicator reached highly overbought conditions in early February and eventually experienced a crossover, which generated a well-timed sell signal. The indicator also crossed over in late February, mid-March, and mid-April with limited success, but the key is looking for both overbought or oversold conditions, as well as a crossover to signal the trade.



Traders may have also looked at other forms of technical analysis to maximize their odds of a successful trade. For example, traders looking at the above chart may have considered the significant bearish volume on the day that the signal occurred or the candlestick patterns leading up to the trading signal when making their decision. These insights could also be used to avoid making less profitable trades suggested by the KST indicator.
What Is Know Your Client (KYC)?  

Know Your Client (KYC) is a standard in the investment industry that ensures advisors can verify a client's identity and know their client's investment knowledge and financial profile.



Three components of KYC include the customer identification program (CIP), imposed under the USA Patriot Act in 2001, customer due diligence (CDD), and ongoing monitoring or enhanced due diligence (EDD) of a customer's account once it is established.





Key Takeaways

Know Your Client (KYC) are standards used in the investment and financial services industry to verify customers and know their risk and financial profiles.Three components of KYC include the customer identification program (CIP), customer due diligence (CDD), and enhanced due diligence (EDD).The SEC requires that each new customer provide detailed financial information before opening an investment or banking account.


   Understanding Know Your Client (KYC)  

The Know Your Client (KYC) rule is an ethical requirement for those in the securities industry dealing with customers during the opening and ongoing maintenance of accounts.



It is implemented at the onset of the customer-broker relationship to establish the essential personal profile of each customer before any financial recommendations are made. The customer is also made aware of the need to comply with all the laws, regulations, and rules of the securities industry.


   KYC Requirements  
  Customer Identification Program  

CIP requires that financial firms must obtain four pieces of identifying information about a client, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number.


  Customer Due Diligence  

CDD is a process in which all of a customer’s credentials are collected to verify their identity and evaluate their risk profile for suspicious account activity.


  Enhanced Due Diligence  

EDD is used for customers that are at a higher risk of infiltration, terrorism financing, or money laundering and additional information collection is often necessary. 


   KYC Compliance  

Two rules governing KYC include Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Rule 2090 (Know Your Customer) and FINRA Rule 2111 (Suitability).



FINRA Rule 2090 states that every broker-dealer uses reasonable effort when opening and maintaining client accounts and are required to know and keep records on the profile of each customer, as well as identify each person who has authority to act on the customer’s behalf.



FINRA Rule 2111 notes that a broker-dealer must have a reasonable belief that a recommendation is suitable for a customer based on the client’s financial situation and needs. This rule assumes that the broker-dealer has completed a review of the current facts and profile of the customer, including the customer’s other securities and investments before making any purchase, sale, or exchange of a security on the client's behalf.


   AML and KYC  

The U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) requires both customers and financial institutions to comply with KYC standards to prevent illegal activity, specifically money laundering. AML, anti-money laundering, is a term for the range of measures and processes used to achieve regulatory compliance. KYC is a component of AML.



FinCEN requires financial institutions to understand the type and purpose of the customer relationship and develop a customer risk profile, used as a baseline for detecting suspicious customer activities.



Financial institutions must also maintain current and accurate customer information and continue to monitor accounts for suspicious and illegal activities. When detected, they are required to promptly report their findings.


   KYC and Cryptocurrency  

The cryptocurrency market is praised for providing a decentralized medium of exchange that promotes confidentiality. However, these benefits also present challenges in preventing money laundering. Criminals see cryptocurrency as a vehicle to launder money and as a result, governing bodies are looking for ways to impose KYC on cryptocurrency markets.



Requiring cryptocurrency platforms to verify their customers would aline with financial institutions, and although not yet required, many crypto platforms have implemented KYC practices.



Fiat-to-crypto exchanges facilitate transactions involving fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies. Since fiat currency is the official currency of a nation, most of these exchanges employ a measure of KYC and financial institutions would have vetted their customers according to KYC requirements.





$60 million

The penalty assessed against Bitcoin mixer Larry Dean Harmon for violating anti-money laundering laws.



In early 2021, FinCEN proposed that cryptocurrency and digital asset market participants submit, maintain, and verify customers' identities. This proposal would classify certain cryptocurrencies as monetary instruments, subjecting them to KYC requirements.




What Is KYC Verification?
The Know Your Client (KYC) verification is a set of standards and requirements used in the investment and financial services industries to ensure brokers have sufficient information about their clients, their risk profiles, and their financial position.




What Is KYC in the Banking Sector?
KYC in the banking sector requires bankers and advisors to identify their customers, beneficial owners of businesses, and the nature and purpose of customer relationships. Banks must also review customer accounts for suspicious and illegal activity and maintain and ensure the accuracy of the customer accounts.




What Are KYC Documents?
Account owners generally must provide a government-issued ID as proof of identity. Some institutions require two forms of ID, such as a driver's license, birth certificate, social security card, or passport. In addition to confirming identity, the address must be confirmed. This can be done with proof of ID or with an accompanying document confirming the address of the client.


   The Bottom Line  

Know Your Client (KYC) are a set of standards and requirements investment and financial services companies use to verify the identity of their customers and any associated risks with the customer relationship. KYC requires customers to provide a personal identification profile and KYC ensures investment advisors are aware of their client's risk tolerance and financial position.
What Is Knowledge Capital?  

The term knowledge capital refers to the intangible value of an organization made up of its knowledge, relationships, learned techniques, procedures, and innovations. In other words, knowledge capital is the full body of knowledge an organization possesses. A company's knowledge capital depends on the skills and talents of its workers, which is what makes it an intangible asset. Knowledge capital provides companies with a comparative advantage over their competitors.





Key Takeaways

Knowledge capital is the value of an organization made up of its knowledge, relationships, learned techniques, procedures, and innovations. Knowledge capita is intangible, provides great value for a company, and gives it a competitive edge over rivals.Human capital, relational capital, and structural capital are three components of knowledge capital.Knowledge capital requires a great investment of time and money because it depreciates.Companies can invest in knowledge capital through training, education, and innovation.


   Understanding Knowledge Capital  

When people hear the word capital, they tend to think of money. While that may be true to some degree, the term means more than just dollars and cents. The term capital is a broad one that is used to describe anything that provides value to the owner. This includes cash as well as physical property (real estate, machinery, precious metals), and assets like knowledge.



Knowledge capital, which is also called intellectual or knowledge-based capital, is anything of value that results from people's experience, skills, knowledge, and learning within an organization. Therefore, it doesn't rely on the physical effort of its machines or other equipment. As such, this form of capital has immeasurable value and cannot be quantified. This is why it's considered an intangible asset, which is one whose value cannot be touched or measured.



As noted above, knowledge capital largely depends on the skills and talents of individuals. This gives companies an edge over their competition. Organizations with high knowledge capital may be more profitable or productive compared to those with lower knowledge capital. Businesses develop knowledge capital by encouraging employees to share information through white papers, seminars, and person-to-person communication. When this capital is pooled together and shared, the results can be worth a great deal.



Knowledge capital is important because it reduces the odds that a company will have to reinvent the wheel each time a particular process is undertaken. This is because its employees have access to documents detailing the necessary steps, along with access to personnel who have undertaken similar activities.






Companies must encourage their employees to share their skills and talent in order to fully exploit their knowledge capital.


   Special Considerations  

Even though it may not be a physical asset, knowledge capital still requires a significant amount of investment. This means that companies may need to invest in the following in order to improve their knowledge capital:



Hiring a diverse pool of individuals with different educational and professional backgrounds
Employee development, including training and continuing education
Research and development (R&D)
Innovation
Incentives and other benefits, such as scholarships, family assistance, and bonuses
Work-life balance
Ways to encourage and foster collaboration



Keep in mind this isn't an exhaustive list and that organizations can take many other steps to invest in and improve their knowledge capital.


   Knowledge Capital Components  

Knowledge capital has three main components: human capital, relational capital, and structural capital. Each category is highlighted below in more detail.


  Human Capital  

Human capital represents the contributions made to an organization by its employees utilizing their talents, skills, and expertise. Possessed only by individuals. human capital can be harnessed and exploited by an organization. It is not owned outright.



Human capital can disappear when an employee leaves. As such, quality organizations focus on retaining creative and innovative workers as well as working toward creating a setting where such intelligence can be taught and learned. 



It is not uncommon, though, for companies to enter into an employment contract with their employees, especially senior-level management, to protect against the loss of knowledge capital through non-competes. In the event an employee leaves the company, a non-compete agreement or clause would typically prohibit that employee from working for a competitor for a specified period of time".


  Relational Capital  

Relational capital is defined as the relationships between coworkers. It also includes the relationships between workers and vendors, customers, suppliers, partners, and collaborators. Relationship capital also includes franchises, licenses, and trademarks as they have value only in the context of the relationship they have with customers.



Strong relationships help corporations and other organizations boost their competitive advantage. As such, it allows them to access information (and eases the flow of that information between individuals) and may reduce risk and the chance of error. It also gives them the opportunity to expand their customer, supplier, and resource bases.


  Structural Capital  

This type of capital represents the non-physical capital possessed by an organization, such as processes, methods, and techniques, that allow it to operate and enable it to leverage its capabilities. Structural capital may also include intellectual property such as databases, code, patents, proprietary processes, trademarks, software, and more. 



An organization's structural capital allows it to integrate and weave everything together into a solid, cohesive unit. As such, it encourages and promotes efficiency among all of its participants.






Knowledge capital is unlike different physical factors of production, such as land, labor, and capital. That's because it is based on the skills that employees share with each other to improve efficiencies rather than physical items.


   Knowledge Capital Uses  

For any business to be successful, it must effectively and efficiently harness and exploit the potential of its knowledge capital. This requires management to be aware of and work toward efficient knowledge management which is the act of creating, disseminating, managing, and utilizing the talents and knowledge that exist in an organization.



Another important caveat for companies with respect to their knowledge capital: It's an asset in need of constant investment of both money and time because, like everything else, knowledge capital depreciates and is not finite. People need to be given the opportunity to continually improve and upgrade their skills in order to maintain their talents. The more a company invests in its knowledge capital, the more value it holds.



By continuing to invest in knowledge capital, companies can expand their R&D operations, create new business models, increase their patents and designs, and continue to innovate.


   Examples of Knowledge Capital  

Although it may not be a physical asset, we can still determine the forms that knowledge capital takes. It may take shape through the leadership of an executive or management team member. Having the confidence and drive to keep people moving toward a common goal is a very valuable asset for any company.



Another common form of knowledge capital is practical knowledge. Having someone who is well versed in coding and programming, for instance, may be valuable to a small internet startup.



Knowledge capital leads to some of the biggest innovations we know today. Consider the intellectual prowess and know-how that went into developing some of the world's famous logos such as McDonald's golden arches, the Nike swoosh, or even the Apple logo—an apple with a bite out of it. Considerable knowledge also went into some of the food we eat and the tools we have at our disposal, such as the formula for Coke or the invention of the smartphone.
What Is the Knowledge Economy?  

The knowledge economy is a system of consumption and production that is based on intellectual capital. In particular, it refers to the ability to capitalize on scientific discoveries and applied research.



The knowledge economy represents a large share of the activity in most highly developed economies. In a knowledge economy, a significant component of value may consist of intangible assets such as the value of its workers' knowledge or intellectual property.





Key Takeaways

The knowledge economy describes the contemporary commercialization of science and academic scholarship.In the knowledge economy, innovation based on research is commodified via patents and other forms of intellectual property.The knowledge economy lies at the intersection of private entrepreneurship, academia, and government-sponsored research.Knowledge-related industries represent a large share of the activity in most highly developed countries.A knowledge economy depends on skilled labor and education, strong communications networks, and institutional structures that incentivize innovation.


   Understanding the Knowledge Economy  

Developing economies tend to be heavily focused on agriculture and manufacturing, while highly developed countries have a larger share of service-related activities. This includes knowledge-based economic activities such as research, technical support, and consulting.



The knowledge economy is the marketplace for the production and sale of scientific and engineering discoveries. This knowledge can be commodified in the form of patents or other intellectual property protections. The producers of such information, such as scientific experts and research labs, are also considered part of the knowledge economy.






The Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 was a major turning point in the treatment of intellectual property in the U.S. because it allowed universities to retain title to inventions or discoveries made with federal R&D funding and to negotiate exclusive licenses.



Thanks to globalization, the world economy has become more knowledge-based, bringing with it the best practices from each country's economy. Also, knowledge-based factors create an interconnected and global economy where human expertise and trade secrets are considered important economic resources.



However, it is important to note that generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) do not allow companies to include these assets on their balance sheets.






The modern commercialization of academic research and basic science has its roots in governments seeking military advantage.


   Knowledge Economy and Human Capital  

The knowledge economy addresses how education and knowledge—that is, "human capital"— can serve as a productive asset or business product to be sold and exported to yield profits for individuals, businesses, and the economy.



This component of the economy relies greatly on intellectual capabilities instead of natural resources or physical contributions. In the knowledge economy, products, and services that are based on intellectual expertise advance technical and scientific fields, encouraging innovation in the economy as a whole.



The World Bank defines knowledge economies according to four pillars:



Institutional structures that provide incentives for entrepreneurship and the use of knowledgeAvailability of skilled labor and a good education systemAccess to information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructuresA vibrant innovation landscape that includes academia, the private sector, and civil society.


   Example of a Knowledge Economy  

Academic institutions, companies engaging in research and development (R&D), programmers developing new software and search engines for data, and health workers using digital data to improve treatments are all components of a knowledge economy.



These economy brokers pass on the results of their research to workers in more traditional fields, such as farmers who use software applications and digital solutions to manage their crops better, advanced technological-based medical procedures such as robot-assistant surgeries, or schools that provide digital study aids and online courses for students.




How Big Is the Knowledge Economy?
Because it is not a clearly-defined category such as manufacturing, it is difficult to put an exact price tag on the global knowledge economy. However, it is possible to gain a rough estimate by gauging some of the major components of the knowledge economy. In the United States, the total intellectual property market is worth $6.6 trillion, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and IP-intensive industries account for over a third of GDP. The market size of the country's higher education institutions accounts for an additional $568 billion.




What Are the Most Valuable Skills in the Knowledge Economy?
While higher education and technical training are obvious assets, communication and teamwork are also essential skills for a knowledge-based economy, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Since it is unlikely that any single knowledge worker can generate groundbreaking innovations alone, these interpersonal and workplace competencies are essential to surviving in a knowledge-based workplace.




Which Country Has the Biggest Knowledge Economy?
The factors of a knowledge economy are measured by the United Nations Development Program's Global Knowledge Index, which replaced the World Bank Knowledge Economy Index after 2012. This metric scores each country based on "enabling factors" for the knowledge economy, such as education levels, technical and vocational training, innovation, and communications technology. According to the latest issue, Switzerland is the top-ranked knowledge economy with a total score of 71.5%. The next two are Sweden and the United States with scores of 70.0 each.
What Is Knowledge Engineering?  

Knowledge engineering is a field of artificial intelligence (AI) that creates rules to apply to data to imitate the thought process of a human expert. It looks at the structure of a task or a decision to identify how a conclusion is reached.



A library of problem-solving methods and the collateral knowledge used for each can then be created and served up as problems to be diagnosed by the system. The resulting software could then assist in diagnosis, trouble-shooting, and solving issues either on its own or in a support role to a human agent. 





Key Takeaways

Knowledge engineering is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) that develops rules that are applied to data in order to imitate the thought process of a human that is an expert on a specific topic.In its initial form, knowledge engineering focused on the transfer process; transferring the expertise of a problem-solving human into a program that could take the same data and make the same conclusions.It was determined that transfer processing had its limitations, as it did not accurately reflect how humans make decisions. It did not consider intuition and gut feeling, known as analogous reasoning and nonlinear thinking, that often may not be logical.Today, knowledge engineering uses a modeling process that creates a system that touches upon the same results as the expert without following the same path or using the same information sources.The goal of knowledge engineering is for it to be implemented into software that will make decisions that human experts would, such as financial advisors.Knowledge engineering is already being used in decision support software and it is expected that at some point it will be used to make better decisions than human experts.


   Understanding Knowledge Engineering  

Knowledge engineering sought to transfer the expertise of problem-solving human experts into a program that could take in the same data and come to the same conclusion. This approach is referred to as the transfer process, and it dominated early knowledge engineering attempts.



It fell out of favor, however, as scientists and programmers realized that the knowledge being used by humans in decision-making is not always explicit. While many decisions can be traced back to previous experience on what worked, humans draw on parallel pools of knowledge that don’t always appear logically connected to the task at hand.



Some of what CEOs and star investors refer to as gut feeling or intuitive leaps is better described as analogous reasoning and nonlinear thinking. These modes of thought don’t lend themselves to direct, step-by-step decision trees and may require pulling in sources of data that appear to cost more to bring in and process than it is worth. 



The transfer process has been left behind in favor of a modeling process. Instead of attempting to follow the step-by-step process of a decision, knowledge engineering is focused on creating a system that will hit upon the same results as the expert without following the same path or tapping the same information sources.



This eliminates some of the issues of tracking down the knowledge being used for nonlinear thinking, as the people doing it are often not aware of the information they are pulling on. As long as the conclusions are comparable, the model works. Once a model is consistently coming close to the human expert, it can then be refined. Bad conclusions can be traced back and debugged, and processes that are creating equivalent or improved conclusions can be encouraged. 


   Knowledge Engineering to Exceed Human Experts  

Knowledge engineering is already integrated into decision support software. Specialized knowledge engineers are employed in diverse fields that are advancing human-like functions, including the ability of machines to recognize a face or parse what a person says for meaning.



As the complexity of the model grows, the knowledge engineers may not fully understand how conclusions are being reached. Eventually, the field of knowledge engineering will go from creating systems that solve problems as well as a human to one that does it quantitatively better than humans.



Coupling these knowledge engineering models with other abilities like natural language processing (NLP) and facial recognition, artificial intelligence could be the best server, financial adviser, or travel agent that the world has ever seen.
What Is Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO)?  

Knowledge process outsourcing (KPO) is the outsourcing of core, information-related business activities. KPO involves contracting out work to individuals that typically have advanced degrees and expertise in a specialized area.



The information-related work can be carried out by workers in a different company or by a subsidiary of the same organization. The subsidiary may be in the same country or in an offshore location to save costs or other resources.





Key Takeaways

Knowledge process outsourcing (KPO) contracts out knowledge-based work to qualified subject matter experts.Companies utilize KPO when they are looking for specialized knowledge and expertise and when they have a shortage of skilled professionals on staff.Ideally, companies look to KPO to simultaneously obtain a highly skilled workforce at a lower cost.


   Understanding Knowledge Process Outsourcing  

Knowledge process outsourcing is the purposeful allocation of relatively high-level tasks involving specialized knowledge or problem-solving to an outside organization or third party that has a high level of subject matter expertise, often located in a different geographic region than the company itself.



KPO is different from business process outsourcing (BPO), which involves the outsourcing of labor and other operational work to a third party to save money. Although KPO is a subset of BPO, KPO involves far more specialized, analytical, and knowledge-based work.



Companies that engage in KPO look to obtain highly educated and skilled individuals without having the cost of training and developing those workers to execute one-off or special projects that are not part of recurring activities. Through KPO, a company can quickly add experts in specific fields to boost competitiveness and increase earnings or to accomplish special tasks for which there is no need to internally hire subject matter experts for permanent roles on a full-time basis.


   Types of KPO Services  

Some common example of KPO outsourcing domains include:



Financial consultants
Research and development (R&D)
Business operations (management consulting)
Technical analysis
Investments
Legal
Medical & healthcare
Data analysis and interpretation


   Reasons for Knowledge Process Outsourcing  

Companies utilize KPO when they are looking for specialized knowledge and expertise where that knowledge base or skills cannot be found in-house. However, companies that engage in KPO offshore also typically do so in order to reduce costs by hiring skilled workers earning lower wages in another location instead of hiring one directly as an employee. Ideally, companies look to KPO to simultaneously obtain a highly skilled workforce at a lower cost.



For example, a manufacturer might use raw materials, add value to those materials through various processes, and then sell the result as a final product. The company might look to KPO to determine how to improve efficiency in its production process so that it can deliver maximum value for the lowest possible total cost. The result of KPO might also help the company create a competitive advantage.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of KPO  

KPO can help companies reduce operational or production costs by creating new processes or streamlining efficiency. KPO also fills the gap or need for skilled employees in a particular field. KPO also frees up existing staff, including management, to do other work, boosting efficiency and productivity.



The flexibility that comes with KPO allows a company to increase or reduce staff easily. For example, if economic conditions worsen, a company can easily reduce its KPO staff to cut costs. Conversely, a company can quickly hire specialized staff to boost profits or revenue. KPO helps a company to be more nimble and adapt to the changes in its industry and competitive landscape.



However, disadvantages do exist with KPO. Privacy of intellectual property and business security can be compromised if classified or proprietary information is lost, copied, or brought to a competitor. Companies have less control over the hiring process of outsourced workers. As a result, a company might not be able to ensure the character of its outsourced employees or the quality of their work. 



Implementing KPO can be time- and resource-intensive to establish a successful operation. Moreover, communication can be a concern and a challenge, due to legal, language, and cultural barriers. Another disadvantage might be that existing employees might feel threatened by the hiring of outsourced workers and feel their jobs are at risk.
What is a Knuckle-Buster  

Knuckle-buster is a slang term for a manual credit card imprinter, a device merchants used to record credit card transactions before the advent of electronic point-of-sale terminals.


   BREAKING DOWN Knuckle-Buster  

A knuckle-buster is a colloquial term used to describe early manual credit card imprinting devices. Also sometimes known as zip-zap machines, the imprinters became known as knuckle-busters because frequent users of these devices would often skin their knuckles and develop calluses as a result of repeated use.



Knuckle-busters were ubiquitous for retailers and businesses from the the beginnings of the credit card industry until electronic point-of-sale terminals began to become popular in the 1980’s. 



The device works by placing the customer’s credit card into a bed in the machine, then layering carbon paper forms over the card. By sliding a bar back and forth over the paper to create an impression from the embossed card data, multiple copies of the transaction are created. Customers sign these paper forms to authenticate the transactions. Copies of these forms would serve as customer receipts, and the the remaining copies would  then be used by the business and its bank and credit card company to process and record the transactions.



Some manual imprinters would come equipped include a plate with the merchant’s name, address, and other identifying information. Other merchants would purchase carbon transaction forms pre-printed with their business information.


   The Effect of Technological Advancements on Knuckle-Busters  

Electronic point-of-sale terminals began to become available in 1979, and provided many advantages over knuckle-busters. For one thing, terminals offered faster verification and approval for transactions on a credit card account. They also tended to be easier on the knuckles of all involved parties.



Carbon copies also tend to be fragile records, and transaction receipts could frequently become illegible, especially over time.



Nevertheless, knuckle-busters remain an advantageous backup plan for businesses that would like to continue to run transactions when electricity or computer networks become unavailable. They also remain useful for merchants, such as fair vendors, who require a portable method of recording transactions.



Even so, the ongoing utility of knuckle-busters is compromised by a number of factors. The availability of carbon forms is diminishing, making forms more expensive and inaccessible, and employees are often not trained in the use of manual imprinters even whey they are available. For merchants, manual entry of credit card transactions is more time-consuming, and each entry is at risk of not being authenticated. Additionally, credit card companies more and more frequently issue cards which are not embossed with customer data, making the knuckle-buster entirely useless in capturing customer data even when running a manual transaction.
What Is the KOF Economic Barometer?  

The KOF Economic Barometer is a composite indicator that provides a reliable reading on the direction of GDP growth for the Swiss economy compared with the same quarter a year earlier. The KOF Economic Barometer is based on a multi-sectoral design with three modules: core GDP, construction, and banking.



The barometer has a complex structure because it bundles over 500 individual indicators in several steps. It is published monthly by the KOF Swiss Economic Institute.





Key Takeaways

The KOF Economic Barometer is a composite leading indicator of Swiss GDP growth.The current version of the Barometer is constructed of an aggregate of over 200 economic variables related to the Swiss economy.Investors and financial traders use the KO Economic Barometer to inform decisions regarding Swiss investments.


   Understanding the KOF Economic Barometer  

The concept of the barometer is to indicate the status of the Swiss business cycle, as captured by a reference series that reflects the Swiss GDP monthly growth rate, as early as possible. Movements in the KOF Economic Barometer on average lead movements in the reference series by one month. The KOF Economic Barometer demonstrates leading indicator properties with respect to both the synthetic reference time series and with actual quarterly growth rates of Swiss GDP.



Although the KOF Institute cautions that no conclusions can be drawn about the level of the GDP growth rate on the basis of the KOF Economic Barometer, the barometer is closely followed by participants in the financial markets. Barometer readings that are higher than expected may have the effect of strengthening the Swiss franc, while lower than anticipated readings may weaken the Swiss franc.



The calculation of the KOF Economic Barometer comprises two main stages. First the variables are selected, and then these variables are combined into one leading indicator. 



The first step consists of identifying variables that have theoretically valid relationships to the Swiss economy and empirically established leading relationship with the reference series based on monthly Swiss GDP growth (interpolated from quarterly data). The present pool of possible factors consists of more than 500 variables, the particular mix of which changes from year to year based on a standardized set of statistical criteria.﻿﻿ 



The second step is the aggregation of the selected variables into a composite indicator by principal component analysis. The KOF Economic Barometer is generated by extracting the first principle component of the selected panel of variables to capture the co-movement in the data, which should reflect the Swiss business cycle.


   History of the KOF Economic Barometer  

The KOF Swiss Economic Institute has published the KOF Economic Barometer since the 1970s. The methodology was changed in 1998 and in 2006. The most recent revisions were made in 2014. In older versions of the KOF Economic Barometer six to 25 variables were included, based on data from the Swiss Federal Statistical Office. In the current version, adopted in 2014, over 200 variables enter the second stage. The large number of component variables allows for a stable and robust final indicator. The latest version of the Barometer is also intended to be more transparent and less prone to frequent revision than past versions.
What Is a Kondratieff Wave?  

Kondratieff Wave, named after Russian economist Nikolai Kondratieff, refers to cycles, lasting about 40 to 60 years, experienced by capitalist economies. Also known as "Kondratiev waves," "super-cycles," "K-waves," "surges," and/or "long waves."





Key Takeaways

Kondratieff Wave - also known as super-cycles, K-waves, surges, and long waves - refers to cycles, lasting about 40 to 60 years, experienced by capitalist economies.A Kondratieff Wave is a long-term economic cycle, indicated by periods of evolution and self-correction, brought about by technological innovation that results in a long period of prosperity.Kondratieff Waves, a theory rejected in Kondratieff's home country, are relegated to a branch of economics called "heterodox economics," meaning that it does not conform to the widely accepted, orthodox theories espoused by economists.


   Understanding Kondratieff Waves  

A Kondratieff Wave is a long-term economic cycle believed to be born out of technological innovation, which results in a long period of prosperity. This theory was founded by Nikolai D. Kondratieff (also spelled "Kondratiev"), a communist Russia-era economist who noticed agricultural commodity and copper prices experienced long-term cycles. Kondratieff believed that these cycles involved periods of evolution and self-correction.



Economists have identified the following Kondratieff Waves since the 18th century.



The first resulted from the invention of the steam engine and ran from 1780 to 1830.The second cycle arose because of the steel industry and the spread of railroads and ran from 1830 to 1880.The third cycle resulted from electrification and innovation in the chemical industry and ran from 1880 to 1930.The fourth cycle was fueled by autos and petrochemicals and lasted from 1930 to 1970.The fifth cycle was based on information technology and began in 1970 and ran through the present, though some economists believe we are at the start of a sixth wave that will be driven by biotechnology and healthcare.



Additionally, each cycle can have four sub-cycles, or phases, that have been dubbed after seasons.



Spring: Increase in productivity, along with inflation, signifying an economic boom.
Summer: Increase in the general affluence level leads to changing attitudes toward work that results in a deceleration of economic growth.
Autumn: Stagnating economic conditions give rise to a deflationary growth spiral that gives rise to isolationist policies, further curtailing growth prospects.
Winter: Economy in the throes of a debilitating depression that tears the social fabric of society, as the gulf between the dwindling number of "haves" and the expanding number of "have-nots" increases dramatically.


   Nikolai D. Kondratieff's Fate  

Kondratieff Waves are relegated to a branch of economics called "heterodox economics," in that it does not conform to the widely accepted, orthodox theories espoused by economists. The theory was also not welcomed in Kondratieff's Russia. His views were anathema to communist officials, especially Josef Stalin, because they suggested that capitalist nations were not on an inevitable path to destruction but, rather, that they experienced ups and downs. As a result, he ended up in a concentration camp in Siberia and was shot by a firing squad in 1938.
What Is a Kondratiev Wave?  

A Kondratiev Wave is a long-term economic cycle in commodity prices and other prices, believed to result from technological innovation, that produces a long period of prosperity alternating with economic decline. This theory was founded by Nikolai D. Kondratiev (also spelled "Kondratieff"), an agricultural economist who noticed agricultural commodity and copper prices experienced long-term cycles. Kondratiev believed that these cycles involved periods of evolution and self-correction.



Also known as "Kondratieff Wave," "supercycle," "K-Wave," "surge" or "long wave."





Key Takeaway

Kondratiev Waves are apparent long-term (~50 year) wave-like patterns in certain statistically-transformed economic time series data.Kondratiev Waves were originally described by agricultural economist Nicolai Kondratiev and have since been studied by other economists and financial commentators.  Kondratiev’s theory is not generally accepted by economists and can easily be explained as a statistical illusion created by his transformations of the raw data. 


   Understanding Kondratiev Waves  

Kondratiev’s research into the pricing of agricultural commodities led him to investigate historical prices of wheat and other crops in major European grain markets where price records had been maintained. He managed to collect almost 150 years worth of data on commodity prices from various markets. Kondratiev combined these data sets of reported market prices together to make long time series of price data. He then transformed the resulting data series from raw price data into moving averages as well as the rates-of-change of prices and their respective moving averages. Kondratiev hoped to explore the long-term characteristics and trends in prices by doing this to the data. 



In this way, Kondratiev was able to identify what he believed to be a regular wave-like pattern in commodity prices with a period of approximately 50 years. He asserted that two full cycles could be observed in his data, the first running from 1790-1849 and a second from 1850-1896, and that world commodity markets were about mid-way through a third wave. He hoped to use insights gained from the patterns he observed to help with Soviet planning of prices and production in the economy of the U.S.S.R.



However, Kondratiev’s theory was not welcomed. His views were disliked by Communist officials because they suggested that capitalist nations were not on an inevitable path to destruction, but that they instead only experienced ups and downs. Kondratiev was also an enthusiastic proponent of Lenin’s New Economic Policy, which reintroduced markets for some goods and services after the early disastrous failures of economic central planning in the Soviet economy, but was anathematized with Stalin’s rise to power. As a result of his economic ideas, Kondratiev was sentenced to 8 years in a prison near Moscow. Upon completion of his sentence he was retried and sentenced to a further 10 years, but instead of being imprisoned, he was shot to death by NKVD (Soviet secret police) agents at the Kommunarka execution grounds in Moscow.


   Later Application of Kondratiev’s Theory  

Some later economists have taken interest in Kondratiev’s theory, though it remains more popular with non-economically trained investors that economists. Various proponents of these ideas often disagree on the timing, direction, and causal factors involved. Some financial and economic forecasters have attempted to make use of Kondratiev Waves and similar theories in their predictive models. 



In his book Economic Cycles, Joseph Schumpeter argued that a series of wave-like patterns of different lengths, including Kondratiev Waves (in addition to other shorter waves), could explain historical and cyclical trends in the economy. He attributed technological innovation as the primary driver of Kondratiev Waves. 


   Do Kondratiev Waves Really Exist?  

The existence of Kondratiev Waves is not generally accepted by economists. The somewhat arbitrary and often conflicting views on the timing and nature of Kondratiev’s theory leads to a lack of consensus even among it’s proponents as to what a Kondratiev Wave actually is, and where the economy is on the supposed wave at any given point in time. The relatively long period of the waves compared to the length of the data available (only a few full waves in length) makes firm conclusions on their characteristics inherently murky.



Moreover, a well-known mathematical property of random time series data, known as the Slutsky-Yule Effect, shows that transforming the data by taking successive moving averages and rates-of-change between data points (as Kondratiev did with his raw price data) creates spurious wave-like patterns that do not reflect any underlying trend in the data themselves. This can easily be demonstrated with any series of random numbers. It means that results like Kondratiev’s are almost certainly inadvertent artifacts of statistical massaging of the data, with no actual explanatory or predictive power outside the transformed data (which are necessarily backward looking by the definition of a moving average).
What Is the Korea Investment Corporation (KIC)?  

The Korea Investment Corporation (KIC) is a government-owned investment organization that manages the sovereign wealth fund (SWF) for the Government of South Korea. The KIC was established by law in 2005 and funded in 2006. The KIC received initial deposits of $17 billion from the Bank of Korea and $3 billion from the Korean Ministry of Strategy and Finance.



The KIC has approximately USD$183.1 billion in assets under management as of the end of 2020 and ranks 15th in size among sovereign wealth funds according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute's rankings.





Key Takeaways

The Korea Investment Fund (KIC) is the sovereign wealth fund for the nation of South Korea.The fund was established in 2005 and has grown to be among the top 15 largest sovereign wealth funds in the world.The KIC has the initiative to increase its allocation to sustainable investments by 2035.


   Understanding the Korea Investment Corporation (KIC)  

The KIC is restricted to investing only in assets that fall under the guidelines provided by the Korea Investment Corporation Act. The KIC also is involved in managing the nation's currency and but remains a separate entity from its currency reserves.



The KIC's objectives are to enhance Korea's sovereign wealth and to contribute to the development of the Korean financial industry. The KIC is governed by a steering committee consisting of nine members plus the chair.



The fund now has a "sustainable growth vision" with a target date of the year 2035. This includes increasing exposure to sustainable and socially responsible investments.


   KIC Investments  

The KIC manages a portfolio made up of 85% traditional assets (e.g., stocks, bonds, and money instruments) and 15% alternative assets, including private equity, real estate, infrastructure projects, and hedge funds. As part of increasing its portfolio diversification, the KIC increased its exposure to emerging markets since 2010. KIC’s return on total assets in 2020 stood at 13.7%, with a five-year annualized return of 9% and annualized returns since inception of 5.22%. 



Regarding its investment philosophy, it states that "KIC strives to increase returns while (1) minimizing the risks from individual markets and assets through portfolio diversification; and (2) exercising flexibility to seize investment opportunities." KIC pursues benchmark returns (beta) by diversifying investments in the range of currencies and countries, as outlined in its investment management guidelines. KIC also strives to generate excess returns over the benchmarks (alpha) through active management within an appropriate level of risk.



Decisions related to strategic asset allocation are subject to evaluation by a steering committee. Regarding traditional assets, the fund manages risk using the ex-ante tracking error from active investing relative to the benchmark. If the weighting of an asset class deviates from a set range compared to the benchmark, adjustments are made so that exposure falls within the set range. The portfolio is rebalanced at pre-determined times to maintain policy weightings for each asset class.



Any agreements signed between KIC and third-party portfolio managers will specify available asset classes and benchmark targets, and these serve as the basis for risk management and performance evaluation.
What Is the Korea Stock Exchange (KRX)?  

The Korea Stock Exchange is a division of the much larger Korea Exchange (KRX, or the Exchange). Previously, Korea's stock market was a standalone entity. In 2005, the Korea Stock Exchange merged with the Korea Futures Exchange and the electronic market, KOSDAQ, to form the Korea Exchange.



The exchange is the only securities exchange operator in South Korea, making markets in equities, bonds, stock index futures, stock index options, and equity options. KRX's headquarters are in Busan, and it has an office for cash markets and oversight in Seoul.





Key Takeaways

Previously a standalone stock market, today, the Korea Stock Exchange is a division of the much larger Korea Exchange (KRX).KRX's electronic trading platform is KOSDAQ, which is similar to the Nasdaq in the U.S.; the KOSPI, like the S&P 500, tracks the health of the exchange.South Korea's economy is attractive to some because of its stability and rapid growth rates.However, there are many risks that investors should consider before committing capital to the region.The easiest way to invest in Korea is via exchange traded funds.


   The Korea Stock Exchange: Background  

Since its inception in 1956, the Korea Stock Exchange had operated independently. Prior to its 2005 merger to form KRX, the Korea Stock Exchange created the Korean Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (KOSDAQ)—a trading platform similar to its American counterpart, Nasdaq, of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD).



In addition to launching electronic trading, some of the exchange's milestones include establishing a stock index futures and options market from 1996 to 1997, trading warrants in 2000, and equity options and exchange traded funds (ETFs) in 2002.



Today, investors can trade various instruments on the exchange including stocks, bonds, ETFs, and real estate investment trusts (REITs). KOSDAQ lists more than 1,000 high-profile companies including Korea New Network, Imagine Asia, Macrogen, Daewon Media, FNC Entertainment, Genie Music, and SK Broadband.


   How Does the Korea Stock Exchange Work?  

In 2021, the KRX listed 2,448 companies with a combined market capitalization (market cap) of $2.6 trillion. Normal trading sessions look the same as those of other major stock markets around the world. Trading opens at 9:00 a.m. and closes at 3:30 p.m. The market is open every day of the week except Saturday, Sunday, and holidays (of which there are 11 in 2021). As with the S&P 500 in the United States, an index, the Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) tracks the health of the exchange.


   The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI)  

The KOPSI contains all of the common stocks that are traded on the exchange. The KOSPI was introduced in 1983 with a base value of $100 and in May 2021 the index trades at around $3,188. As with other major indexes, KOPSI is calculated based on market cap and boasts daily trading volume in excess of multiple hundreds of million shares.



Several offshoots of the index track specific sectors, factor strategies, and market caps. The KOSPI 200 Index, for example, consists of 200 large companies in the stock market division. As of 2021, among the biggest holdings in the KOPSI include tech giant Samsung Electronics, automotive maker Hyundai Motor, and LG Chemical.


   Korea Stock Exchange: Trading Considerations  

The easiest way to invest in South Korea is with exchange traded funds that provide instant diversification in a single security traded on a U.S. stock exchange. Three key ETFs track the South Korean market. In addition to the iShares MSCI South Korea ETF (EWY) are the Korea KOSPI 200 ETF (HKOR) and the Franklin FTSE South Korea ETF (FLKR). This targeted access to Korean stocks extends to large- and mid-sized companies.


   Benefits of Investing in South Korea  

With its rare combination of stability and rapid growth rates, South Korea's economy is attractive for international investors.



Rapidly growing: South Korea's economy is expected to continue growing at a rate of between 2.3% and 3.6% from 2021 to 2026.
Stable economy: South Korea's economy is a member of the G20 as an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), with annual per capita income of more than $30,000, which means that it is very stable.


   Risks of Investing in South Korea  

However, there are also many risks that investors should consider before committing capital to the region. For example, three of Korea's largest industry sectors—automakers, financial services, and technology—could potentially experience setbacks that, in turn, would lead to market volatility.



Geopolitical risk: South Korea is situated in one of the most militarized regions in the world, with a very unstable neighbor in North Korea.
Reliance on exports: South Korea's economy relies heavily on exports, which can be detrimental during a global economic downturn.
What are the Korean Composite Stock Price Indexes?  

Korean Composite Stock Price Indexes (KOSPI) refers to a series of indexes that track the overall Korean Stock Exchange and its components. Each of the KOSPI indexes are capitalization-weighted market averages. 



The best-known of these indexes is the KOSPI 200, which comprises the 200 largest publicly-traded common stocks traded in Korea, tracking roughly 70% of the market value of the overall Korean Stock Exchange.﻿﻿ The KOSPI 200 is used as a rough benchmark when investors or traders refer to the performance of the Korean Exchange. For this reason, and because its components are large-cap stocks, people compare the KOSPI 200 to the S&P 500 in the United States.



As of 2021, major KOSPI 200 components included consumer product maker Samsung Electronics, Hyundai Motor, semiconductor manufacturer SK Hynix, utility provider Korea Electric Power, and Shinhan Bank.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Korean Composite Stock Price Indexes  

The Korean Composite Stock Price Indexes (KOSPI) first debuted in the early 1980s, with several variants rolled out in subsequent years, including the KOSPI 100 which focused on mid-caps, and the KOSPI 50 which represents small caps. The KOSPI also refers to a family of indices tracking specific industries including chemicals and banks, and the KODI index, which specializes in dividend stocks. Also, the KOSPI appears on several other products that track the prices of futures, options, and sovereign bonds.



Note that while KOSPI refers to the entire family of indexes, many market participants call the KOSPI 200 simply the KOSPI.


   History of the KOSPI 200  

The KOSPI 200 began trading at the start of January in 1983 at a value of 122.52.﻿﻿ Its base value, indexed to January 4, 1980, is 100. The KOSPI 200 rose more than 8-fold to a value of more than 1,000 by April of 1989, roughly two years following the Asian financial crisis. The index value surged to 1,997.06 by its 30th birthday at the end of 2012, trailing only the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Taiwan Stock Exchange over the same time frame. The KOSPI 200 index stood at roughly 2,470 by mid-2018, up more than 20-fold since its introduction.﻿﻿



Notable dates for the KOSPI include June 17, 1988, when it gained about 8.5%, its largest one-day percentage gain. It also fell more than 12% on September 12, 2001, the day following the 9/11 terrorist attack in the U.S. The index closed above 2,000 for the first time on July 24, 2007.﻿﻿



Analysts, market participants, and the international financial news media all follow the KOSPI 200 to varying degrees. U.S.-based news outlets such as The Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg, as well as London-based Reuters, owned by Canada-based Thomson Reuters, often quote the index and use its values when reporting on market events in Korea.
What Are Krugerrands?  

Krugerrands are gold coins that were minted by the Republic of South Africa in 1967 to help promote South African gold to the international markets and to make it possible for individuals to own gold. Krugerrands are among the most frequently traded gold coins in the world market.



The coins have legal tender status in South Africa, although Krugerrands were never assigned a rand (ZAR) value. Krugerrands were designed to derive their value exclusively from the price of gold at the time they are traded. If the price of gold changes, so does the price of Krugerrands.





Key Takeaways

Krugerrands are South African gold coins that were minted in 1967.Krugerrands accounted for 90% of the world’s gold-coin market in 1980, at the peak of the gold market.Krugerrands remain popular among gold investors today, despite South Africa's slumping gold production.


   Krugerrands: The Gold Coin  

The face of a Krugerrand coin bears the image of Paul Kruger, who was president of the South African Republic from 1883 to 1900. The coin’s name comes from combining Paul Kruger’s surname with “rand,” South Africa’s national currency. The reverse of the coin portrays a galloping springbok antelope, which is one of South Africa’s national symbols. Paul Kruger held office when one of the world’s most profitable mines, Durban Deep, was founded in 1896. He also was president during the Witwatersrand Gold Rush, which led to the founding of Johannesburg, one of South Africa’s largest cities.



The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) trades in Krugerrands through a well-regulated secondary market in the same way as any listed equity market instrument, with quoted prices based on the weight of the coins. New Krugerrands are issued by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB), where they can be redeemed. Because of its legal tender status in South Africa, the Krugerrand was minted to be more resilient to wear than the 24-karat gold coins used for decoration medals. The Krugerrand is made of 22 karats, or 91.67%, gold, with 8.33% copper alloy.












 westphalia/iStock / Getty Images Plus


   History of Krugerrands  

When Krugerrands were minted in 1967, the United States did not permit its citizens to own gold bullion, but it did permit ownership of foreign coins, so the Krugerrand could be bought and sold in the U.S. As the consciousness of South Africa’s apartheid—that country's system of racial segregation—policies grew, the Krugerrand suffered from diminished interest.



During the 1970s and '80s, numerous Western countries banned the import of Krugerrands as part of enforced economic sanctions against South Africa because of apartheid. The United States banned the import of Krugerrands in 1985. These economic sanctions ended in the West in 1994 when apartheid was abandoned by South Africa. However, many U.S. investors did not realize that the ban had been lifted, which caused low volumes of U.S. imports of Krugerrands.



In 1970, South Africa was the largest gold producer in the world, holding more than 75% of the world’s gold reserves. Throughout the 1970s, Krugerrands quickly became the leading choice for gold investors. By 1980, at the peak of the gold market, the Krugerrand overwhelmingly dominated other gold investments, accounting for 90% of the world’s gold-coin market.


   Current Status  

In 1994, following the end of apartheid, production of the Krugerrand plummeted. Since then, South Africa's gold production bounced back, but it has never returned to its heyday levels of the 1970s and '80s. In 2016, the nation’s gold output had dropped by 85% since 1980, and South Africa produced just 6% percent of the world’s gold.



Today, Krugerrands continue to suffer. As the graph below displays, South Africa's gold production fell by more than 30% between December 2018–19, extending its longest run of contractions since the 2007–08 financial crisis.












Statistics South Africa / Carla Tardi / Investopedia


   Investing in Krugerrands  

Krugerrands remain a popular investment for gold investors in part because of their value and small size, which makes for easy storage. Krugerrands appeal to professional and private investors who wish to make a direct investment in gold bullion, hedge their portfolios against the U.S. dollar, or further diversify their portfolio.



Investors continue to buy gold because of the proven longevity of its value. Many gold investors consider this precious metal a safe investment that will retain its value even in an economic collapse. Owning a tangible asset appeals to some investors, who may put greater trust in physical coins or bars than in securities investments that exist only on paper. 



If you are interested in buying Krugerrands you should have a secure place in which to store them. You also should be wary of scammers, seek a reputable gold dealer, and brush up on your state’s tax laws, which could include a sales tax on gold. Here are some features of investing in gold that some investors could find attractive:



The gold market is very liquid.Your investment is in physical gold and is not dependent on the performance of a gold mine.Gold has a positive track record in terms of returns and has increased in value because it is a non-renewable natural resource.Gold has a low-to-negative correlation with other asset classes, making it an effective portfolio diversification tool.




Where Can I Buy a Krugerrand?
Krugerrands can be purchased from coin dealers in person or online. All Krugerrand coins, even ones minted during the time when international sanctions were imposed on South Africa, are now legal to own, buy, or sell.




How Much Gold Does a Krugerrand Contain?
A Krugerrand coin contains one ounce of gold, and weighs a total of 1.09 ounces due to the trace presence of copper alloy that makes the coins more durable.




How Much Does One Krugerrand Cost?
Since a Krugerrand contains one ounce of pure gold, the price of one of these coins closely follows the market price of gold, which is quoted per-ounce.
What Is KSOP?  

The term KSOP refers to a qualified retirement plan that combines an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) with a 401(k). It is essentially an ESOP that operates within a 401(k). As such, KSOPs are offered by employers to their employees. Companies that offer these plans match employee contributions with stock rather than cash. KSOPs are considered defined-benefit plans, as companies that offer them can reduce the administrative expenses of operating separate ESOPs and 401(k) plans.





Key Takeaways

A KSOP is a qualified retirement plan that combines an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) with a 401(k).Companies that offer these plans match employee contributions with stock rather than cash.KSOPs are defined-benefit plans as companies can reduce the administrative expenses of operating separate ESOPs and 401(k)s.There are lower upfront costs associated with KSOPs. KSOPs bring additional risk to plan holders above and beyond those associated with 401(k)s. 


   How a KSOP Works  

Individuals have several options available to them when it comes to retirement planning. If their employer doesn't offer a sponsored plan, they can choose to invest in accounts on their own, such as an individual retirement account (IRA). But most employers offer some type of retirement plans, such as 401(k)s or 403(b)s. Some companies may decide to offer what's called a KSOP, in which an ESOP operates within a 401(k).



ESOPs are benefit plans that give employees an ownership stake in the company for which they work. These plans come with certain benefits, including no upfront costs. 401(k)s, on the other hand, are plans that allow individuals to set aside money from their paycheck for retirement.



The KSOP provides the features and benefits of both plans by combining them into one. Employees make contributions by setting aside a certain amount of money from their wages through regular payroll deductions. Employers make matching contributions. But rather than contributing cash, the employer instead offers shares in the company.



A KSOP is a great option for companies that can help them create a market for their shares with sufficient liquidity, which measures how easily a stock can be bought or sold in the market. They also incentivize employees to ensure the company's profitability. This could boost the share price and generate additional value down the road. On the flip side, employees could lose value if the share price declines, leaving less incentive to outperform.






The benefits a retiree receives from a KSOP depend on how much they contribute, the employer contributions as well as the way the company's share perform in the market.


   Special Considerations  

KSOPs bring additional risk to plan holders above and beyond those associated with 401(k)s. Employees with traditional 401(k)s are generally offered several options of funds with various risk and reward profiles in which to invest. As employers gradually add to an employee’s 401(k), the employee has more money to distribute among these funds and diversify their assets.



There could be a variety of securities within a typical fund, including stocks, bonds, money market instruments, and cash. On the other hand, a KSOP concentrates employee assets in company stock, leaving less room for balance and spreading risk among different shares of stock and asset classes.


   KSOPs vs. Other Employer-Sponsored Plans  

There are other employer-sponsored retirement plans in addition to the KSOP, including the SEP IRA and the SIMPLE IRA.


  SEP IRA  

SEP-IRAs are available for self-employed individuals, such as freelance writers, consultants, and independent contractors. They can also be set up by proprietorships and partnerships. Participants may make tax-deductible contributions on behalf of eligible employees, including the business owner.



Employers that establish SEP IRAs are allowed to claim a tax deduction for any plan contributions that are not over the statutory limit. However, annual contributions are optional, and if an employer does contribute, they must contribute the same percentage to all eligible employees, up to the contribution limit.


  SIMPLE IRA  

The SIMPLE in the name SIMPLE IRA stands for Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees. This type of plan is geared toward slightly larger enterprises, including small businesses with 100 or fewer employees are eligible.



Employer contributions are mandatory. They have two options to help boost the retirement savings of their employees of either a 2% contribution or an optional matching contribution of up to 3%. In turn, employees can contribute a maximum of $13,500 in 2021 and $14,000 in 2022. Individuals 50 and over can contribute an additional catch-up contribution of $3,000 each year.
What Is the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE)?  

The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) is the former name of a Malaysian stock exchange located in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur. The KLSE dates back to 1930 and was specifically created to allow the trading of Malaysian securities. The exchange went through several name changes over the years but is now known as Bursa Malaysia.﻿﻿



KLSE is one of the largest exchanges in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), allowing traders to trade equities, exchange traded funds (ETFs), offshore Islamic assets, and other securities.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange is a Malaysian stock exchange now known as Bursa Malaysia.It is one of the largest exchanges in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and is fully automated.Equities, exchange traded funds, offshore Islamic assets, and other securities are listed on the exchange.The exchange's main index is the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI, which is composed of the top 30 companies on the Bursa Malaysia Exchange.


   Understanding the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE)  

As noted above, the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange is now known as Bursa Malaysia. The exchange is fully integrated and offers clearing, trading, listing, depository, and settlement services. It has a fully automated trading system which launched in late 2008.



According to the exchange's website, 900 companies are able to use it to raise capital through a number of different economic activities. Its main index is the Kuala Lumpur Composite Index (KLCI), now known as FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI, which is composed of the top 30 companies on the Bursa Malaysia Exchange.



A number of different financial securities are traded on Bursa Malaysia, including equities, bonds, derivatives, exchange-traded products (ETPs), and real estate investment trusts (REITs). There's also an Islamic market team that promotes Shariah-compliant capital markets to cater to the nation's Muslim majority. This market includes domestic and offshore Islamic assets as well as Islamic banking, the Shari'ah-compliant trading platform that was launched in 2009.



Companies that want to list on the exchange have three options available including the main or prime market for large, established corporations, as well as the ACE market for companies that have the potential for growth. The final option is known as the LEAP market, which is meant for up-and-coming small- and mid-sized companies.



Bursa Malaysia also works with other global corporations and exchanges to promote performance and transparency in global capital markets. For instance, it entered into a partnership with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) to offer derivatives. This agreement is valid until 2025.






If you want to invest in the Malaysian market, consider a mutual fund, exchange traded fund, or an American depositary receipt.


   Special Considerations  

Traders are only able to short-sell equity-based exchange traded funds, but that may change in the future. In July 2018, Bursa Malaysia released a consultation paper that sought public comment on a proposed amendment related to ETFs.﻿﻿ This call comes after a task force on ETFs, which included the Securities Commission Malaysia (SC), Bursa Malaysia, and other market participants made recommendations aimed at expanding investor interest in ETFs. Recommendations from the task force urged including ETFs, such as:



Futures-based ETFs
Leveraged ETFs
Inverse ETFs
Physically backed commodity ETFs
Synthetic ETFs



In service of these goals, the rule changes would loosen regulations on the short-selling framework to allow various short-selling types of ETF units.


   History of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE)  

The exchange dates back to 1930, when it was established as the Singapore Stockbrokers' Association. This was the first securities business developed in the Southeast Asian nation.﻿﻿ It went through a series of name changes including the Malayan Stock Exchange and the Stock Exchange of Malaysia.﻿﻿ Securities trading to the public began in 1960 and the exchange was incorporated as a company in 1976.﻿﻿



In a move to become more customer-focused, the exchange demutualized in 2004.﻿﻿ With demutualization, a business that has member ownership converts into one that has shareholders. With this change in ownership structure, the name changed to Bursa Malaysia.
What Is Kurtosis?  

Kurtosis is a statistical measure used to describe a characteristic of a dataset. When normally distributed data is plotted on a graph, it generally takes the form of a bell. This is called the bell curve. The plotted data that are furthest from the mean of the data usually form the tails on each side of the curve. Kurtosis indicates how much data resides in the tails.



Distributions with a large kurtosis have more tail data than normally distributed data, which appears to bring the tails in toward the mean. Distributions with low kurtosis have fewer tail data, which appears to push the tails of the bell curve away from the mean.



For investors, high kurtosis of the return distribution curve implies that there have been many price fluctuations in the past (positive or negative) away from the average returns for the investment. So, an investor might experience extreme price fluctuations with an investment with high kurtosis. This phenomenon is known as kurtosis risk.





Key Takeaways

Kurtosis describes the "fatness" of the tails found in probability distributions.There are three kurtosis categories—mesokurtic (normal), platykurtic (less than normal), and leptokurtic (more than normal).Kurtosis risk is a measurement of how often an investment's price moves dramatically.A curve's kurtosis characteristic tells you how much kurtosis risk the investment you're evaluating has.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Kurtosis  

Kurtosis is a measure of the combined weight of a distribution's tails relative to the center of the distribution curve (the mean). For example, when a set of approximately normal data is graphed via a histogram, it shows a bell peak, with most of the data residing within three standard deviations (plus or minus) of the mean. However, when high kurtosis is present, the tails extend farther than the three standard deviations of the normal bell-curved distribution.



Kurtosis is sometimes confused with a measure of the peakedness of a distribution. However, kurtosis is a measure that describes the shape of a distribution's tails in relation to its overall shape. A distribution can be sharply peaked with low kurtosis, and a distribution can have a lower peak with high kurtosis. Thus, kurtosis measures "tailedness," not "peakedness."


   Formula and Calculation of Kurtosis  
  Calculating With Spreadsheets  

There are several different methods for calculating kurtosis. The simplest way is to use the Excel or Google Sheets formula. For instance, assume you have the following sample data: 4, 5, 6, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 5, and 8 residing in cells A1 through A10 on your spreadsheet. The spreadsheets use this formula for calculating kurtosis:

















n


(


n


+


1


)




(


n


−


1


)


(


n


−


2


)


(


n


−


3


)




×


(


∑





x


i



−



x


ˉ




s




)


4



−




3


(


n


−


1



)


2





(


n


−


2


)


(


n


−


3


)









\begin{aligned}& \frac { n ( n + 1 ) }{ (n - 1)(n - 2)(n - 3) } \times \Big ( \sum \frac { x_i - \bar{x} }{ s } \Big ) ^ 4 - \frac { 3 (n - 1) ^ 2 }{ (n - 2)(n - 3)} \\\end{aligned}


​(n−1)(n−2)(n−3)n(n+1)​×(∑sxi​−xˉ​)4−(n−2)(n−3)3(n−1)2​​
However, we'll use the following formula in Google Sheets, which calculates it for us, assuming the data resides in cells A1 through A10:















=


KURT(A1:A10)







\begin{aligned}&= \text{KURT(A1:A10)} \\\end{aligned}


​=KURT(A1:A10)​
The result is a kurtosis of -0.1518, indicating the curve has lighter tails and is platykurtic.


  Calculating by Hand  

Calculating kurtosis by hand is a lengthy endeavor, and takes several steps to get to the results. We'll use new data points and limit their number to simplify the calculation. The new data points are 27, 13, 17, 57, 113, and 25.






It's important to note that a sample size should be much larger than this; we are using six numbers to reduce the calculation steps. A good rule of thumb is to use 30% of your data for populations under 1,000. For larger populations, you can use 10%.



First, you need to calculate the mean. Add up the numbers and divide by six to get 42. Next, use the following formulas to calculate two sums, s2 (the square of the deviation from the mean) and s4 (the square of the deviation from the mean squared). Note—these numbers do not represent standard deviation; they represent the variance of each data point.















s2


=


∑


(



y


i



−



y


ˉ




)


2

















s4


=


∑


(



y


i



−



y


ˉ




)


4

















where:

















y


i



=


ith variable of the sample

















y


ˉ



=


Mean of the sample







\begin{aligned}&\text{s2} = \sum ( y_i - \bar{y} ) ^ 2 \\&\text{s4} = \sum ( y_i - \bar{y} ) ^ 4 \\&\textbf{where:} \\&y_i = \text{ith variable of the sample} \\&\bar{y} = \text{Mean of the sample} \\\end{aligned}


​s2=∑(yi​−yˉ​)2s4=∑(yi​−yˉ​)4where:yi​=ith variable of the sampleyˉ​=Mean of the sample​
To get s2, use each variable, subtract the mean, and then square the result. Add all of the results together:















(


27


−


42



)


2



=


(


−


15



)


2



=


225
















(


13


−


42



)


2



=


(


−


29



)


2



=


841
















(


17


−


42



)


2



=


(


−


25



)


2



=


625
















(


57


−


42



)


2



=


(


15



)


2



=


225
















(


113


−


42



)


2



=


(


71



)


2



=


5


,


041
















(


25


−


42



)


2



=


(


−


17



)


2



=


289
















225


+


841


+


625


+


225


+


5


,


041


+


289


=


7


,


246







\begin{aligned}&(27 - 42) ^ 2 = (-15) ^ 2 = 225 \\&(13 - 42) ^ 2 = (-29) ^ 2 = 841 \\&(17 - 42) ^ 2 = (-25) ^ 2 = 625 \\&(57 - 42) ^ 2 = (15) ^ 2 = 225 \\&(113 - 42) ^ 2 = (71) ^ 2 = 5,041 \\&(25 - 42) ^ 2 = (-17) ^ 2 = 289 \\&225 + 841 + 625 + 225 + 5,041 + 289 = 7,246 \\\end{aligned}


​(27−42)2=(−15)2=225(13−42)2=(−29)2=841(17−42)2=(−25)2=625(57−42)2=(15)2=225(113−42)2=(71)2=5,041(25−42)2=(−17)2=289225+841+625+225+5,041+289=7,246​
To get s4, use each variable, subtract the mean, and raise the result to the fourth power. Add all of the results together:















(


27


−


42



)


4



=


(


−


15



)


4



=


50


,


625
















(


13


−


42



)


4



=


(


−


29



)


4



=


707


,


281
















(


17


−


42



)


4



=


(


−


25



)


4



=


390


,


625
















(


57


−


42



)


4



=


(


15



)


4



=


50


,


625
















(


113


−


42



)


4



=


(


71



)


4



=


25


,


411


,


681
















(


25


−


42



)


4



=


(


−


17



)


4



=


83


,


521
















50


,


625


+


707


,


281


+


390


,


625


+


50


,


625


+


25


,


411


,


681
















+


83


,


521


=


26


,


694


,


358







\begin{aligned}&(27 - 42) ^ 4 = (-15) ^ 4 = 50,625 \\&(13 - 42) ^ 4 = (-29) ^ 4 = 707,281 \\&(17 - 42) ^ 4 = (-25) ^ 4 = 390,625 \\&(57 - 42) ^ 4 = (15) ^ 4 = 50,625 \\&(113 - 42) ^ 4 = (71) ^ 4 = 25,411,681 \\&(25 - 42) ^ 4 = (-17) ^ 4 = 83,521 \\&50,625 + 707,281 + 390,625 + 50,625 + 25,411,681 \\&+ 83,521 = 26,694,358 \\\end{aligned}


​(27−42)4=(−15)4=50,625(13−42)4=(−29)4=707,281(17−42)4=(−25)4=390,625(57−42)4=(15)4=50,625(113−42)4=(71)4=25,411,681(25−42)4=(−17)4=83,52150,625+707,281+390,625+50,625+25,411,681+83,521=26,694,358​
So, our sums are:















s2


=


7


,


246
















s4


=


26


,


694


,


358







\begin{aligned}&\text{s2} = 7,246 \\&\text{s4} = 26,694,358 \\\end{aligned}


​s2=7,246s4=26,694,358​
Now, calculate m2 and m4, the second and fourth moments of the kurtosis formula:








m2








=



s2


n

















=




7


,


246



6

















=


1


,


207.67







\begin{aligned}\text{m2} &= \frac { \text{s2} }{ n } \\&= \frac { 7,246 }{ 6} \\& = 1,207.67 \\\end{aligned}


m2​=ns2​=67,246​=1,207.67​








m4








=



s4


n

















=




26


,


694


,


358



6

















=


4


,


449


,


059.67







\begin{aligned}\text{m4} &= \frac { \text{s4} }{ n } \\&= \frac { 26,694,358 }{ 6} \\& = 4,449,059.67 \\\end{aligned}


m4​=ns4​=626,694,358​=4,449,059.67​
We can now calculate kurtosis using a formula found in many statistics textbooks that assumes a perfectly normal distribution with kurtosis of zero:















k


=



m4



m2


2




−


3
















where:
















k


=


Kurtosis
















m4


=


Fourth moment
















m2


=


Second moment







\begin{aligned}&k = \frac { \text{m4} }{ \text{m2} ^ 2 } - 3 \\&\textbf{where:} \\&k = \text{Kurtosis} \\&\text{m4} = \text{Fourth moment} \\&\text{m2} = \text{Second moment} \\\end{aligned}


​k=m22m4​−3where:k=Kurtosism4=Fourth momentm2=Second moment​
So, the kurtosis for the sample variables is:

















4


,


449


,


059.67




1


,


458


,


466.83




−


3


=


.


05







\begin{aligned}&\frac { 4,449,059.67 }{ 1,458,466.83 } - 3 = .05 \\\end{aligned}


​1,458,466.834,449,059.67​−3=.05​


   Types of Kurtosis  

There are three categories of kurtosis that a set of data can display—mesokurtic, leptokurtic, and platykurtic. All measures of kurtosis are compared against a normal distribution curve.















Kurtosis.
Investopedia 


  Mesokurtic (Kurtosis = 3.0)  

The first category of kurtosis is mesokurtic distribution. This distribution has a kurtosis similar to that of the normal distribution, meaning the extreme value characteristic of the distribution is similar to that of a normal distribution. Therefore, a stock with a mesokurtic distribution generally depicts a moderate level of risk.


  Leptokurtic (Kurtosis > 3.0)  

The second category is leptokurtic distribution. Any distribution that is leptokurtic displays greater kurtosis than a mesokurtic distribution. This distribution appears as a curve one with long tails (outliers.) The "skinniness" of a leptokurtic distribution is a consequence of the outliers, which stretch the horizontal axis of the histogram graph, making the bulk of the data appear in a narrow ("skinny") vertical range.



A stock with a leptokurtic distribution generally depicts a high level of risk but the possibility of higher returns because the stock has typically demonstrated large price movements.






While a leptokurtic distribution may be "skinny" in the center, it also features "fat tails".


  Platykurtic (Kurtosis < 3.0)  

The final type of distribution is platykurtic distribution. These types of distributions have short tails (fewer outliers.). Platykurtic distributions have demonstrated more stability than other curves because extreme price movements rarely occurred in the past. This translates into a less-than-moderate level of risk.


   Using Kurtosis  

Kurtosis is used in financial analysis to measure an investment's risk of price volatility. Kurtosis measures the amount of volatility an investment's price has experienced regularly. High Kurtosis of the return distribution implies that an investment will yield occasional extreme returns. Be mindful that this can swing both ways, meaning high kurtosis indicates either large positive returns or extreme negative returns.



For example, imagine a stock had an average price of $25.85 per share. If the stock's price swung widely and often enough, the bell curve would have heavy tails (high kurtosis). This means that there is a lot of variation in the stock price—an investor should anticipate wide price swings often.



On the other hand, a portfolio with a low kurtosis value indicates a more stable and predictable return profile, which may indicate lower risk. In this light, investors may intentionally seek investments with lower kurtosis values when building safer, less volatile portfolios.



Kurtosis can also be used to strategically implement an investment allocation approach. For example, a portfolio manager who specializes in value investing may prefer to invest in assets with a negative kurtosis value, as a negative kurtosis value indicates a flatter distribution with more frequent small returns. Conversely, a portfolio manager who specializes in momentum investing may prefer to invest in assets with a positive kurtosis value with peaked distributions of less frequent but larger returns.


   Kurtosis vs. Other Commonly Used Measurements  

Kurtosis risk differs from more commonly used measurements. Alpha measures excess return relative to a benchmark index. While kurtosis measures the nature of the peak or flatness of the distribution, alpha measures the skewness or asymmetry of the distribution.



Beta measures the volatility a stock compared to the broader market. Each security or investment has a single beta that indicates whether or not that security is more or less volatile compared to a market benchmark. Again, beta measures the degree of asymmetry of the distribution, while kurtosis measures the peak or flatness of the distribution.



R-squared measures the percent of movement a portfolio or fund has that can be explained by a benchmark. Though r-squared is used in regression analysis to assess the goodness of fit of a regression model, kurtosis is used in descriptive statistics to describe the shape of a distribution.



Last, the Sharpe ratio compares return to risk. The Sharpe ratio is used by investors to better understand whether the level of returns they are receiving are commiserate with the level of risk incurred. While kurtosis analyzes the distribution of a dataset, the Sharpe ratio more commonly is used to evaluate investment performance.




Why Is Kurtosis Important?
Kurtosis explains how often observations in some data sets fall in the tails vs. the center of a probability distribution. In finance and investing, excess kurtosis is interpreted as a type of risk known as "tail risk," or the chance of a loss occurring due to a rare event, as predicted by a probability distribution. If such events are more common than predicted by a distribution, the tails are said to be "fat."




What Is Excess Kurtosis?
Excess kurtosis compares the kurtosis coefficient with that of a normal distribution. Most normal distributions are assumed to have a kurtosis of three, so excess kurtosis would be more or less than three; however, some models assume a normal distribution has a kurtosis of zero, so excess kurtosis would be more or less than zero.




Is Kurtosis the Same As Skewness?
No. Kurtosis measures how much of the data in a probability distribution are centered around the middle (mean) vs. the tails. Skewness instead measures the relative symmetry of a distribution around the mean.


   The Bottom Line  

Kurtosis describes how much of a probability distribution falls in the tails instead of its center. In a normal distribution, the kurtosis is equal to three (or zero in some models). Positive or negative excess kurtosis will then change the shape of the distribution accordingly. For investors, kurtosis is important in understanding tail risk, or how frequently "infrequent" events occur, given one's assumption about the distribution of price returns.
What Is the Kuwait Investment Authority?  

The term Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) refers to a government-owned corporation responsible for managing the sovereign wealth fund of Kuwait. Founded out of the Kuwait Investment Board in 1982, it was established to manage government revenue, derived primarily from the excess proceeds Kuwait earns from its oil reserves. The fund—the world's first and oldest—was created to lessen the country's dependence on oil.





Key Takeaways

The Kuwait Investment Authority is a government-owned corporation that manages the sovereign wealth fund of Kuwait.The KIA was established to manage government revenue, which primarily consists of the profits from Kuwait's oil reserves.The fund invests in private and public equity, real estate, fixed income, and alternative investment markets.It is divided into two segments: the General Reserve Fund and the Future Generations Fund.


   Understanding the Kuwait Investment Authority  

Crude oil was first discovered in Kuwait in 1938. The country exported its first shipment of the commodity in 1946, which put Kuwait on the map as one of the world's major crude oil producers. This boosted the country's economy, leading its leaders to look for ways to invest its excess revenue.



Sheikh Abdullah Al-Salem Al-Sabah created the Kuwait Investment Board in 1953—eight years before the country’s independence. The board was established to manage the nation's surplus oil revenue. It also aimed to decrease Kuwait's dependence on a single resource. This paved the road for the creation of the Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) in 1982 as an autonomous government body in charge of managing the assets of the country. The KIA is located in Kuwait City, with additional offices in London and Shanghai.






Interested in investing in Kuwait? Consider a mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund.



The KIA, which created the world's very first and oldest sovereign wealth fund, is managed by a board of directors. This board has the authority and independence over the fund's asset allocation strategy. It is also responsible for the fund's performance. The fund invests mostly in private and public equity, real estate, fixed income, and alternative investment markets. According to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, the KIA has a total of $750 billion in assets.



There are three different principles that make up the KIA's mission statement:



Managing parts of the Future Generations Fund
Preserving capital and achieving long-term returns by outperforming the benchmark
Promoting its reputation as a progressive institution that invests in the international market



The fund is one of the members of the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds and is among those that signed up to the Santiago Principles, which consists of 24 best practices for these types of funds. The principles aim to promote accountability and transparency, along with sound investment decisions among the world's sovereign wealth funds.


   Special Considerations  

The fund is divided into two segments—the General Reserve Fund (GRF) and the Future Generations Fund (FGF). The country’s oil revenues and any income earned from the fund's investments are held in the GRF. Its assets and income may be freely used by the national government. This segment invests in domestic companies, along with corporations in other Middle Eastern and Northern African countries. Ten percent of the country's revenue is transferred to the Future Generations Fund as well as 10% of the GRF's net income if there is a surplus and approved by the Minister.



The FGF is considered an intergenerational, long-term saving platform. This segment, established in 1976, was created with a 50% transfer from the GRF. The fund invests outside of Kuwait with strategic asset allocation. All income from FGF’s investments is reinvested. Any transfers from the fund require a specific legislation.
What Is the KWD (Kuwaiti Dinar)?  

The Kuwaiti Dinar (KWD) is the national currency of the State of Kuwait. The dinar name derives from the Roman denarius. The KWD subdivides into 1000 fils which is a coin used in many Arab countries.



Kuwait is a small nation located between Iraq and Saudi Arabia on the Persian Gulf. Its economy is heavily reliant on oil, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world as measured by GDP per capita.





Key Takeaways

The Kuwaiti dinar (KWD) is the currency of the State of Kuwait, and as of 2021 is the most valuable currency on Earth.The currency fluctuates in a relatively small range and is pegged to an undisclosed basket of currencies.The economy of Kuwait is heavily reliant on oil, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world.Since its official release in 1961, the KWD has gone through six different versions.As of December 2021, one Kuwaiti dinar is equal to approximately $3.3 U.S. dollars.


   Understanding the KWD (Kuwaiti Dinar)  

The introduction of the Kuwaiti dinar (KWD) in 1961 was a replacement for the Gulf rupee. The Gulf rupee was a currency pegged at parity to the Indian rupee. Issued in 1959 by the Indian government, the Gulf rupee was for use outside of India, particularly in the Persian Gulf region. Like the Indian rupee, the Gulf rupee was pegged to the British pound sterling (GBP). 



In 1961, Kuwait gained independence from the United Kingdom with the end of treaties put in place after the defeat of the Ottoman Empire. Kuwaiti Currency Law created the Kuwaiti Currency Board with the purpose of establishing a Kuwaiti currency. The Kuwaiti Currency Board introduced the Kuwaiti dinar as a replacement for the Gulf rupee. Until 1966, both currencies circulated, but the use of the rupee ended after its devaluation.



Between 1975 and 2003, the Kuwaiti dinar was pegged to a weighted currency basket. The content of the currency basket was mandated by the Kuwaiti Currency Board. In 2003, the KWD was pegged to the U.S. dollar (USD) at 0.29963 dinars to the dollar. This valuation continued until 2007 when it was formally re-pegged to an undisclosed basket of currencies.



As of December 2021, one Kuwaiti dinar is worth about USD 3.3, making it the most valuable money on Earth.



The State of Kuwait has a petroleum product-based economy with 80% of government revenues coming from the oil industry. The State of Kuwait is a tax-free country, with one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world.



The Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) is the oldest sovereign wealth fund in the world, and the investment industry of the country manages more assets than any other member of the Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC), a regional economic and political union.


   Issuance of the KWD (Kuwaiti Dinar)  

There have been six official issues of the Kuwaiti dinar banknotes since the first circulation in 1961. There have also been two commemorative sets circulated.



The third series, released in 1980 upon the crowning of Emir Jaber al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, was in use until Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. Upon invasion, the Iraqi government installed the Iraqi dinar as the official currency for the area.





$132 Billion

The GDP of Kuwait in 2021, which is expected to increase to $138 billion in 2022.



The invading Iraqi forces stole an enormous number of Kuwaiti dinar banknotes. With the liberation of Kuwait, the invalidation of the third dinar issue forced the replacement with the fourth issue of the currency in 1991.



The 1994 series implemented enhanced security features.



The sixth series came in 2014 with bills specially textured so blind and vision-impaired persons can identify them by touch.


   KWD (Kuwaiti Dinar) Exchange Rate  

Between December 2016 and December 2021, the Kuwaiti dinar fluctuated between $3.17 and $3.33. That means that it cost between $3.17 and $3.33 U.S. dollars to buy one Kuwaiti dinar. The higher rate, 3.33, means that the Kuwaiti dinar appreciated in value, or the U.S. dollar had fallen in value relative to the dinar. If the rate falls, that means that the Kuwaiti dinar is losing value, or that the U.S. dollar is gaining value relative to it.



Due to its relatively low volatility, and limited global trade, the Kuwaiti dinar is not typically used as a speculative trading instrument. If it were, a trader would attempt to buy near the lower end of its historical range, and try to sell near the top of it. Buying at $3.17 and selling at $3.33—the price range over five years—represents only a 5% profit, minus fees and commissions.



This is why most traders and investors stay away from trading this currency unless they feel a major fundamental shift may be forthcoming that could cause a major shift in the value of the currency.




How Is Kuwaiti Currency Pegged?
The Kuwaiti currency is pegged to a basket of currencies as opposed to one currency. The basket of currencies is not disclosed but is expected to be heavily weighted towards the U.S. dollar.




Why Is the KWD So Valuable?
The KWD is so valuable because the demand for the currency is very high. The economy of Kuwait is primarily dependent on oil, but not only that, it is a stable country that uses its oil revenue efficiently, unlike many oil-rich countries. In addition, it is a large exporter of oil. Because demand for global oil is high, the demand to pay for it in Kuwaiti currency is also high, making the KWD a very valuable currency.




Is Kuwait’s Currency More Valuable Than the U.S. Dollar?
Yes, Kuwait's currency is more valuable than the U.S. dollar because the demand for the KWD is high due to Kuwait being a large producer of oil. That being said, the U.S. dollar is the world's reserve currency and is accepted more widely.
What Is the Cayman Islands Dollar (KYD)?  

KYD is the currency abbreviation or currency symbol for the Cayman Islands dollar (KYD), the currency for the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands are a British Overseas Territory that includes Grand Cayman, Little Cayman, and Cayman Brac.



The Cayman Islands are a well-established offshore financial center. The Cayman Islands dollar comes in denominations of 1, 5, 10, 25, 50, and 100 dollars as well as coins. The Cayman Islands Monetary Authority manages the currency.





Key Takeaways

KYD is the currency abbreviation or currency symbol for the Cayman Islands dollar (KYD), the currency for the Cayman Islands.The currency relies on a fixed exchange rate pegged to the U.S. dollar at KYD $1 = USD $1.20KYD has two recognized symbols that are used locally: $ and CI$.


   Understanding the Cayman Islands Dollar (KYD)  

The Cayman Islands dollar was first seen in 1972, replacing the Jamaican dollar on a one-to-one basis. Both Jamaican and Cayman Island currency was used until 1972 when the Jamaican currency was discontinued.



KYD is the abbreviation of the Cayman Islands Dollar, which is the currency that replaced the former island currency, the Jamaican dollar, in 1972. The KYD in circulation is made up of coins minted by the World Coin Corporation, in denominations of 1 cent, 5 cents, 10 cents, and 25 cents. The banknotes, or paper currency, were originally produced by Thomas De La Rue and Company, in denominations of $1, $5, $10, and $25. The KYD has two recognized symbols, $ and CI$. The British Royal Mint was responsible for minting the currency in $40, $50, and $100 denominations.



In 1974, the 1971 Currency Law was updated to reflect the parity between the KYD and the US Dollar, which is KYD $1 = US $1.20. This law is called the 1974 Currency Law and it still stands today. Since 1997, the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority has been responsible for the issuing of all currency within the Cayman Islands.


   About the Cayman Islands  

The Cayman Islands are a group of island territories belonging to the United Kingdom. Located in the Caribbean Sea, the islands of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman make up the island chain. Christopher Columbus initially named the island chain Las Tortugas, due to the number of turtles in the region. The islands are mainly known for their tourist attractions and international financial services, thanks to picturesque beaches and very little regulatory oversight in the banking sector.



The Cayman Islands wrote their constitution into law in 2009, which states that an appointed governor is the head of the state acting on behalf of the monarch. The islands are still represented by the British monarchy.



The capital of the islands is George Town where the Cayman Islands National Museum can be found. There, visitors can learn all about the islands and their histories. Schooling on the islands is both free and mandatory at a primary level. The islands have three colleges available to residents looking to pursue higher education.



The islands were hit hard by Hurricane Ivan in 2004 and a national disaster was declared. With an economy that relies so heavily on tourism, the resulting damages limited their desirability as a tourist attraction. After a strong effort by the government to repair the damages, the island has regained most of its lost revenues over the ensuing years.






The Cayman Islands makes a substantial amount of money from fees associated with registering and renewing offshore companies and hedge funds. The financial services industry in the Cayman Islands generates roughly 55% of the nation’s economy.


   Example of KYD Exchange  

The KYD is pegged to the U.S. dollar whereby one Cayman dollar is equal to 1.20 U.S. dollars. For example, let's say you were sending a wire transfer to the Cayman Islands and wanted to convert $1,000 to KYD. The exchange would result in 833.60 in Cayman dollars ($1,000/1.20).
What Is the Kyoto Protocol?  

The Kyoto Protocol was an international agreement that aimed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and the presence of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The essential tenet of the Kyoto Protocol was that industrialized nations needed to lessen the amount of their CO2 emissions. The protocol was adopted in Kyoto, Japan in 1997, when greenhouse gases rapidly threatened the climate, life on the earth, and the planet. It was effectively replaced by the Paris Agreement, which went into effect in 2016.





Key Takeaways

The Kyoto Protocol was an international agreement that called for industrialized nations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions significantly.Other accords, like the Doha Amendment and the Paris Climate Agreement, also tried to curb the global warming crisis.The U.S. withdrew from the agreement on the grounds that the mandate was unfair and would hurt the U.S. economy.The Paris Climate Agreement of 2015 replaced the Kyoto Protocol and includes commitments from all major GHG-emitting countries to reduce their climate-altering pollution.


   Understanding the Kyoto Protocol  

The Kyoto Protocol mandated that industrialized nations cut their greenhouse gas emissions at a time when the threat of global warming was growing rapidly. The Protocol was linked to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It was adopted in Kyoto, Japan on Dec. 11, 1997, and became international law on Feb. 16, 2005.



Countries that ratified the Kyoto Protocol were assigned maximum carbon emission levels for specific periods and participated in carbon credit trading. If a country emitted more than its assigned limit, then it would be penalized by receiving a lower emissions limit in the following period.



Developed, industrialized countries made a promise under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce their annual hydrocarbon emissions by an average of 5.2% by the year 2012. Targets depended on the individual country. As a result, each nation had a different target to meet by that year. Members of the European Union (EU) pledged to cut emissions by 8%, while the U.S. and Canada promised to reduce their emissions by 7% and 6%, respectively, by 2012.





$100 billion

The amount of the Kyoto Protocol fund that was meant to aid developing countries in selecting non-greenhouse-emitting industrialized processes and technologies.


   Kyoto Protocol Mechanisms  

The Kyoto Protocol established three different mechanisms to enable countries additional ways to meet their emission-limitation target. The three mechanisms are:



The International Emissions Trading Mechanism: Countries that have excess emission units permitted to them but not used can engage in carbon trading and sell these units to countries over their target.
The Clean Development Mechanism: Countries with emission-reducing or limiting commitments may implement emission-reducing projects in developing countries to earn certified emission-reduction credits.
The Joint Implementation Mechanism: Countries with emission-reducing or limiting commitments to earn emission-reducing units from a project in another party.


  Responsibilities of Developed vs. Developing Nations  

The Kyoto Protocol recognized that developed countries are principally responsible for the high levels of GHG emissions in the atmosphere as a result of more than 150 years of industrial activity. As such, the protocol placed a heavier burden on developed nations compared to less-developed nations.



The Kyoto Protocol mandated that 37 industrialized nations plus the EU cut their GHG emissions. Developing nations were asked to comply voluntarily, and more than 100 developing countries, including China and India, were exempted from the Kyoto agreement altogether.


  A Particular Function for Developing Countries  

The protocol separated countries into two groups: Annex I contained developed nations, and Non-Annex I referred to developing countries. The protocol placed emission limitations on Annex I countries only. Non-Annex I nations participated by investing in projects designed to lower emissions in their countries.



For these projects, developing countries earned carbon credits, which they could trade or sell to developed countries, allowing the developed nations a higher level of maximum carbon emissions for that period. In effect, this function helped the developed countries to continue emitting GHG vigorously.


  The United States' Involvement  

The United States, which ratified the original Kyoto Protocol, dropped out of the protocol in 2001. The U.S. believed that the agreement was unfair because it called only for industrialized nations to limit emissions reductions, and it felt that doing so would hurt the U.S. economy.


   Additional Kyoto Protocol Changes  

Global emissions were still on the rise by 2005, the year the Kyoto Protocol became international law—even though it was adopted in 1997. The EU was able to exceed its initial target and said it was on track to meet its goals to continue reducing emissions in the future.



The United States and China, which are two of the world's biggest emitters, produced enough greenhouse gases to mitigate any of the progress made by nations that met their targets. In fact, there was an increase of about 40% in emissions globally between 1990 and 2009.


  The Doha Amendment Extended Kyoto Protocol to 2020  

In December 2012, after the first commitment period of the Protocol ended, parties to the Kyoto Protocol met in Doha, Qatar, to adopt an amendment to the original Kyoto agreement. This so-called Doha Amendment added new emission-reduction targets for the second commitment period, 2012–2020, for participating countries.



The Doha Amendment had a short life. In 2015, at the sustainable development summit held in Paris, all UNFCCC participants signed yet another pact, the Paris Climate Agreement, which effectively replaced the Kyoto Protocol.


  The Paris Climate Agreement  

The Paris Climate Agreement is a landmark environmental pact that was adopted by nearly every nation in 2015 to address climate change and its negative effects. The agreement includes commitments from all major GHG-emitting countries to cut their climate-altering pollution and to strengthen those commitments over time.



A major directive of the deal calls for reducing global GHG emissions to limit the earth's temperature increase in this century to 2 degrees (preferring a 1.5-degree increase) Celsius above preindustrial levels. The Paris Agreement also provides a way for developed nations to assist developing nations in their efforts to adapt climate control, and it creates a framework for monitoring and reporting countries’ climate goals transparently.






Every five years, countries engage in the Global Stocktake, which is an assessment of their progress under the Paris Climate Agreement.


   The Kyoto Protocol Today  

In 2016, when the Paris Climate Agreement went into force, the United States was one of the principal drivers of the agreement, and President Obama hailed it as “a tribute to American leadership.”



As a candidate for president at that time, Donald Trump criticized the agreement as a bad deal for the American people and pledged to withdraw the country from the agreement if elected. In 2017, then-President Trump announced that the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement, saying that it would undermine the U.S. economy.



The former president did not begin the formal withdrawal process until Nov. 4, 2019. The U.S. formally withdrew from the Paris Climate Agreement on Nov. 4, 2020, the day after the 2020 presidential election, in which Donald Trump lost his reelection bid to Joseph Biden.



On January 20, 2021, his first day in office, President Biden began the process of rejoining the Paris Climate Agreement, which officially took effect on Feb. 19, 2021.


  Biden Presidency  

Although the Kyoto Protocol no longer exists, many steps are currently being taken in the long-term preservation. Recent legislative action in support of climate change initiatives put forth under both the Kyoto Protocol and Paris Agreement include:



A $2.3 billion fund for its Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities program to support communities in increasing resilience to extreme weather.
Proposals to expand offshore wind energy opportunities with the potential of 700,000 acres of alternative energy to power over three million homes.
Reinvigorated reforestation efforts that will address a backlog of four million acres and plan more than one billion trees over the next decade.


   Kyoto Protocol Timeline  

Below are some relevant dates relating to the development, implementation, and revisions to the Kyoto Protocol:



Dec. 11, 1997: The Kyoto Protocol was adopted at the Conference of the Parties in Kyoto, Japan.Nov. 14, 1998: As a result of a two-week meeting that concluded on the 14th, 170 governments adopted a two-year plan titled the Buenos Aires Plan of Action to reduce the risk of global climate change.March 16, 1998: The Kyoto Protocol becomes open for signatures.March 15, 1999: One year after being open for signatures, the Kyoto Protocol had received 84 signatures.Feb. 16, 2005: The Kyoto Protocol goes into force.Dec. 8, 2012: The Doha Amendment was adopted for a second commitment period.March 25, 2013: Afghanistan becomes the 192nd signatory of the Kyoto Protocol. As of August 2023, there remained 192 signatories.Dec. 12, 2015: The Paris Agreement was adopted by 196 parties at COP21 in Paris, largely superseding the Kyoto Protocol.Nov. 4, 2016: The Paris Agreement went into effect.Dec. 31, 2020: After obtaining acceptance by 147 parties and meeting the minimum threshold of acceptance requirement, the Doha Amendment was officially adopted.




What Was the Primary Purpose of the Kyoto Protocol?
The Kyoto Protocol was an agreement among developed nations to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and greenhouse gases in an effort to minimize the impacts of climate change.




Why Didn’t the U.S. Sign the Kyoto Protocol?
The United States backed out of the Kyoto Protocol agreement in 2001 on the basis that it unfairly burdened developed nations. The treaty called only for developed nations to reduce emissions, which the U.S. believed would unfairly stifle its economy.




How Many Countries Signed the Kyoto Protocol?
After becoming a signatory in 2013, Afghanistan became the 192nd and last signatory of the Kyoto Protocol.




Why Was the Kyoto Protocol Created?
The Kyoto Protocol was created in response to concerns surrounding climate change. The treat was an agreement between developed nations to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and greenhouse gases. The framework implemented the United Nation's target of reducing global warming consequences including a general rise in seal levels, disappearance of some island states, melting of glaciers, and increase in extreme climate-related events.


   The Bottom Line  

The Kyoto Protocol is largely considered a landmark legislative achievement as one of the more prominent international treaties in regards to climate change. Though the treaty has been superseded by the Paris Agreement, the Kyoto Protocol remains an important part of environmental and conservation history.
