What Is a Baby Bond?  

A baby bond is a fixed income security that is issued in small-dollar denominations, with a par value of less than $1,000. The small denominations enhance the attraction of baby bonds to average retail investors.





Key Takeaways

A baby bond is one that has a face value of less than $1,000.These small-denomination bonds are intended to attract ordinary investors who may not have large amounts to invest in traditional bonds.Baby bonds are most common among municipal issuers, or as government-issued savings bonds.


   Understanding Baby Bonds  

Baby bonds are issued mainly by municipalities, counties, and states to fund expensive infrastructure projects and capital expenditures. These tax-exempt municipal bonds are generally structured as zero-coupon bonds with a maturity of between eight and 15 years. The muni bonds are usually rated A or better in the bond market.



Baby bonds are also issued by businesses as corporate bonds. Corporate issuers of these debt securities include utility companies, investment banks, telecom companies, and business development companies (BDCs) involved in funding small- and mid-sized businesses. The price of the corporate bonds is determined by the issuer’s financial health, credit rating, and available market data for the company. A company that cannot or does not want to issue a large debt offering may issue baby bonds as a way to generate demand and liquidity for the bonds. Another reason that a company may issue baby bonds is to attract small or retail investors who may not have the funds to purchase the standard $1,000 par value bond.


   Example  

For example, an entity that wanted to borrow money by issuing $4 million worth of bonds might not garner much interest from institutional investors for such a relatively small issue. In addition, with a $1,000 par value, the issuer will be able to sell only 4,000 bond certificates on the markets. However, if the company issues baby bonds instead for a $400 face value, retail investors will be able to affordably access these securities, and the company will have the capacity to issue 10,000 bonds in the capital markets.


   Additional Considerations  

Baby bonds are typically categorized as unsecured debt, meaning the issuer or borrower does not pledge any collateral to guarantee interest payments and principal repayments in the event of default. Therefore, if the issuer defaults on its payment obligations, baby bondholders would get paid only after the claims of secured debt holders were met. However, following the standard structure of debt instruments, baby bonds are senior to a company’s preferred shares and common stock.



One feature of baby bonds is that they are callable. A callable bond is one that can be redeemed early, that is, before maturity, by the issuer. When bonds are called, the interest payments also stop being paid by the issuer. To compensate baby bondholders for the risk of calling a bond prior to its maturity date, these bonds have relatively high coupon rates, ranging from around 5 percent to 8 percent.


   Other Baby Bonds  

Baby bonds may also refer to a series of small denomination savings bonds with face value ranging from $75 to $1,000, issued by the U.S. government from 1935 to 1941. These tax-exempt bonds were sold at 75% of face value and had a maturity of 10 years.



In the UK, baby bonds refer to a type of bond launched in the late 1990s with the objective of encouraging savings for children by their parents. Parents had to make small monthly contributions for at least 10 years and in return, the child received a guaranteed minimum amount tax-free upon turning 18.
What Is a Baby Boomer?  

"Baby boomer" is a term used to describe a person born between 1946 and 1964. The baby boomer generation makes up a substantial portion of the world's population, especially in developed nations. As the largest generational group in U.S. history (until the millennial generation slightly surpassed them), baby boomers have had—and continue to have—a significant impact on the economy.





Key Takeaways

"Baby boomer" refers to a member of the generation born between the end of World War II and the mid-1960s.Because of their large numbers and the relative prosperity of the U.S. economy during their working careers, baby boomers as a group remain economically and politically influential.But as more and more baby boomers reach retirement age, many are facing serious financial challenges.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Baby Boomer Facts and Figures  

The generation of baby boomers emerged after the end of World War II when birth rates across the world spiked. The explosion of new infants became known as the baby boom. During the boom, 76 million babies were born in the United States alone.



While several million baby boomers have died in the decades since, immigration to the U.S. has helped replenish the supply. As of late 2019, U.S. Census Bureau estimates put the baby boom population at 71.6 million.



Most historians say the baby boomer phenomenon most likely involved a combination of factors: people wanting to start the families that they put off during World War II and the Great Depression before it, and a sense of confidence that the coming era would be peaceful and prosperous. Indeed, the late 1940s and 1950s generally saw increases in wages, thriving businesses, and an increase in the variety and quantity of products for consumers.



Accompanying this new economic prosperity was a migration of young families from the cities to the suburbs. The G.I. Bill allowed many returning veterans (though not Blacks) to buy affordable homes in tracts around the edges of cities. This led to a suburban ethos of the ideal family consisting of the husband as the provider, the wife as a stay-at-home housekeeper, plus their children.



As suburban families began to use new forms of credit to purchase consumer goods such as cars, home appliances, and television sets, businesses also targeted their children, the growing boomers, with their advertising and marketing efforts. As the boomers approached adolescence, many became dissatisfied with this ethos and the consumer culture associated with it, which fueled the youth counterculture movement of the 1960s.



As the longest-living generation in history so far, boomers are at the forefront of what's been called a longevity economy. According to a 2021 report from the Brookings Institution, baby boomers spent about $8.7 trillion in 2020 on goods and services—a figure that's expected to increase to $15 trillion by 2030.





53.2%

Amount of personal net worth that belonged to baby boomers in early 2023—evidence that they continue to hold substantial economic and political power, even as they get older.


   What Baby Boomer Retirement Is Looking Like  

The first members of the baby boom generation reached the traditional retirement age of 65 in 2011. By 2029, every baby boomer will be 65 or older.



In many ways, their retirement experience will be very different from that of their parents, members of the so-called Greatest Generation. These are some of the key differences:


  The likelihood of a longer retirement  

Increasing life expectancy has made it likely that baby boomers will spend more time in retirement than their parents did. The average life expectancy for a 65-year-old American today is 18.3 years, 16.9 years for men and 19.6 years for women. In other words, a 65-year-old man today can reasonably expect to live to age 82 and a 65-year-old woman to age 85. And many Americans, as we're seeing, now live into their 90s or even 100s.



Greater longevity, coupled with good health and an accommodating job market, also opens up the possibility for baby boomers to remain in the workforce longer. Doing so will not only provide them with more current income and more time to plump up their retirement accounts, but all else being equal it will reduce the period of time that their savings will need to support them.


  The decline of traditional pensions  

During their working years baby boomers witnessed the decline of traditional defined-benefit pensions, where the employer promises workers a certain amount of regular income upon retirement. The employer was responsible for funding the pension plan as well as choosing and managing its investments. Many of the baby boomers' parents had retired comfortably on such pensions.



In their place came defined-contribution plans, such as 401(k) plans, largely funded by the employees themselves out of each paycheck, often with some form of matching contribution from the employer. Employees were given a choice of investments, such as an assortment of mutual funds, making it their responsibility to contribute enough money and invest it wisely—and it was their tough luck if they failed to do so.



In 1975, 27.2 million private sector workers participated in defined-benefit pension plans. By 2019, that number had dropped to 12.6 million. Meanwhile, the number of defined-contribution plan participants rose from 11.2 million to 85.5 million over that same period.



The result has not been pretty for a large part of the baby boomer population. As of 2020, only 58.1% of baby boomers between age 56 and 64 had any type of retirement account.



Among baby boomer households with retirement savings, the Transamerica Center for Retirement Studies estimates their median value at $289,000. The center also reports that 41% of boomers expect their primary source of retirement income will be Social Security benefits. That brings us to another important difference.


  Concern over the viability of Social Security  

The money to pay Social Security retirement benefits comes from two sources: a Social Security trust fund (known as the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance, or OASI, trust fund) and out of the income that's being paid into the system by current workers.



The latest estimates from Social Security's trustees are that the trust fund will run out of money in 2033, at which point the income from current workers will be able to cover only 77% of current retirement benefits.



Part of the problem is the size of the baby boom retiree cohort vs. the number of current workers. In 1955, for example, there were 8.6 active workers for every retiree. By 2022, that number had dropped to 2.8 workers per retiree, according to Social Security Administration estimates, and by 2035 it may be down to 2.3.



So, obviously, something has to give, with higher worker contributions, lower retiree benefits, and/or an increase in the retirement age being among the possibilities. Fortunately for baby boomers, Social Security has long been considered the "third rail" of American politics and any politicians who vote to reduce benefits on current or near-term retirees will do so at considerable risk to their careers.




Who Named the Baby Boom?
The term "baby boom" goes back to at least the years immediately following the First World War, when England apparently experienced one. It began to appear in U.S. newspapers toward the end of World War II and may have been given greater currency when the widely read financial columnist Sylvia Porter used it in a 1950 article on the boom's economic impact. The term "baby boomer" is more recent but also dates back to at least the 1970s. It got a boost in 1980, when author Landon Y. Jones published his bestselling book Great Expectations: America & the Baby Boom Generation, and it has remained with us ever since.




What Are Echo Boomers?
Echo boomers are the children of baby boomers, generally born between 1976 and 2001, a period of rising birth rates. In terms of other generations, the earliest echo boomers could be considered members of Gen X, while later ones are either millennials or part of Gen Z.




What Is Generation Jones?
Generation Jones, or GenJones, refers to baby boomers born in the U.S. between 1954 and 1965. The term was coined by the writer Jonathan Pontell, who maintains that these later boomers are different enough from their early boomer counterparts to constitute their own generation.


   The Bottom Line  

The generation of baby boomers, now moving into retirement, remains a powerful force in the U.S, economy and will most likely continue to be one for years to come.
What Is the Back-End Ratio?  

The back-end ratio, also known as the debt-to-income ratio, is a ratio that indicates what portion of a person's monthly income goes toward paying debts. Total monthly debt includes expenses, such as mortgage payments (principal, interest, taxes, and insurance), credit card payments, child support, and other loan payments.



Back-End Ratio = (Total monthly debt expense / Gross monthly income) x 100



Lenders use this ratio in conjunction with the front-end ratio to approve mortgages. The lower your back-end ratio, the lower risk you are.





Key Takeaways

Back-end ratios show the percentage of income a borrower is allotting to other lenders.To calculate a back-end ratio, divide total monthly debt expenses by gross monthly income and divide by 100.Mortgage underwriters use back-end ratios to help assess a borrower's risk.Lenders usually require long-term debt and housing expenses equate to less than 33% to 36% of a borrower's gross income.


   How Back-End Ratio Works  

The back-end ratio represents one of several metrics that mortgage underwriters use to assess the level of risk associated with lending money to a prospective borrower. It is important because it denotes how much of the borrower's income is owed to someone else or another company.



A back-end ratio is also called a total fixed payments to effective income ratio.






Lenders usually require long-term debt and housing expenses equate to less than 33% to 36% of a borrower's gross income.



If a high percentage of an applicant's paycheck goes to debt payments every month, the applicant is considered a high-risk borrower. For these borrowers, a job loss or income reduction could more easily result in financial strain and missed payments.


   How to Calculate a Back-End Ratio  

The back-end ratio is calculated by adding together all of a borrower's monthly debt payments and dividing the sum by the borrower's monthly income and multiplying by 100.



Consider a borrower whose monthly income is $5,000 ($60,000 annually divided by 12) and who has total monthly debt payments of $2,000. This borrower's back-end ratio is 40% ($2,000 / $5,000 * 100). 



Generally, lenders like to see a back-end ratio that does not exceed 36%. However, some lenders make exceptions for ratios of up to 50% for borrowers with good credit. Some lenders consider only use this ratio when approving mortgages, while others use it in conjunction with the front-end ratio.


   Back-End vs. Front-End Ratio  

Like the back-end ratio, the front-end ratio is another debt-to-income comparison used by mortgage underwriters, the only difference being the front-end ratio considers no debt other than the mortgage payment. Therefore, the front-end ratio is calculated by dividing only the borrower's mortgage payment by his or her monthly income. Returning to the example above, assume that out of the borrower's $2,000 monthly debt obligation, their mortgage payment comprises $1,200 of that amount.



The borrower's front-end ratio, then, is ($1,200 / $5,000), or 24%. A front-end ratio of 28% is a common upper limit imposed by mortgage companies. Like with the back-end ratio, certain lenders offer greater flexibility on front-end ratio, especially if a borrower has other mitigating factors, such as good credit, reliable income, or large cash reserves.


   How to Improve a Back-End Ratio  

Paying off credit cards and selling a financed car are two ways a borrower can lower their back-end ratio. If the mortgage loan being applied for is a refinance and the home has enough equity, consolidating other debt with a cash-out refinance can lower the back-end ratio.



However, because lenders incur greater risk on a cash-out refinance, the interest rate is often slightly higher versus a standard rate-term refinance to compensate for the higher risk. In addition, many lenders require a borrower paying off the revolving debt in a cash-out refinance to close the debt accounts being paid off, lest they run the balance back up.




What Are the Back-End Ratio Requirements?
Typically, lenders want to see a back-end ratio of at least 36%, although some lenders may allow for a higher back-end ratio. For example, some lenders may allow for a maximum back-end ratio of 43%.




What Is a Front-End Ratio?
A front-end ratio is the percentage of your housing expenses in proportion to your total income. To calculate a front-end ratio, divide your total housing expenses, including your mortgage payment, property taxes, mortgage insurance, and homeowner's association fees by your total income.




What Is a Good Front-End Ratio?
Many lenders require a minimum front-end ratio of 28% to approve you for a mortgage. The lower your front-end and back-end ratios, the more likely you are to qualify for a mortgage.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding your back-end ratio is key to preparing for getting a mortgage and other types of loans, as lender use this ratio among other factors to assess how risky you are. You can improve your back-end ratio by minimizing debt and increasing income. Consider consulting a professional financial advisor to review how your back-end ratio fits into your financial picture.
What Is Back Office?  

The back office is the portion of a company made up of administration and support personnel who are not client-facing. Back-office functions include settlements, clearances, record maintenance, regulatory compliance, accounting, and IT services. For example, a financial services firm is segmented into three parts: the front office (e.g., sales, marketing, and customer support), the middle office (risk management), and the back office (administrative and support services).





Key Takeaways

The back office is the portion of a financial company made up of administration and support personnel, who are not client-facing.Back-office functions include settlements, clearances, record maintenance, regulatory compliance, accounting, and IT services.The term "back office" originated when early companies designed their offices so that the front portion contained the associates who interact with customers, and the back portion of the office contained associates who have no interaction with customers, such as accounting clerks.


   How the Back Office Works  

The back office can be thought of as the part of a company responsible for providing all business functions related to its operations. Despite their seemingly invisible presence, back-office personnel provide essential functions to the business. The back office is an essential part of any firm and associated job titles are often classified under "Operations." Their roles enable and equip front-office personnel to perform their client-facing duties. The back office is sometimes used to describe all jobs that do not directly generate revenue.






The term "back office" originated when early companies designed their offices so that the front portion contained the associates who interact with customers, and the back portion of the office contained associates who have no interaction with customers, such as accounting clerks.






   Example of Back-Office  

Today, most back-office positions are located away from the company headquarters. Many are located in cities where commercial leases are inexpensive, labor costs are lower, and an adequate labor pool is available. 



Alternatively, many companies have chosen to outsource and/or offshore back-office roles to further reduce costs. Technology has afforded many companies the opportunity to allow remote-work arrangements, in which associates work from home. Benefits include rent savings and increased productivity. Additionally, remotely employing back-office staff allows companies to access talent in various areas and attract a diverse pool of applicants.



Some firms offer incentives to employees and applicants who accept remote positions. For example, a financial services firm that requires high-level accounting could offer a $500-per-month housing subsidy to experienced CPAs to work from home. If it costs $1,000 per month to secure office space per individual, a housing subsidy of $500 per month would result in an overall savings of $6,000 per year. The cost savings can be significant when employing many remote professionals.



Though this saves money for the company, the employee may also have to accept a lower salary if they are moving from a Front Office position in a central location to a more remote location or even a work-at-home arrangement.


   Back Office Interaction with Front Office  

Although back-office staff members do not interact with customers, they tend to actively interact with front-office staff. For example, a manufacturing equipment salesperson may enlist the help of back-office staff to provide accurate information on inventory and pricing structures. Real estate marketing professionals frequently interact with sales agents to create attractive and relevant marketing materials. And IT professionals regularly interact with all divisions within the company to ensure proper functioning systems.



Many business school students from non-target colleges and universities see Back Office work as a way to gain experience within a firm and potentially network up into the Front Office roles. Though it varies from one firm to another, the work in the Back Office roles is significantly different from the Front Office and, with the exception of corporate credit risk roles, may not provide a Front Office hopeful with the needed experience to make such a transition.




How is the Front Office different from the Back Office?
The front office is responsible for attracting new clients and servicing existing clients; in short, they're the client-facing team. The back office, on the other hand, exists to service the transactions conducted by the front office and has no interaction with the firm's clients. However, it could be said that the back office's client is the front office.




What are the back office's main responsibilities?
In short, the back office exists to finalize the transactions conducted by the front office. This includes confirming transactions and settlement instructions with the back office of the counterparty. The back office is also responsible for trade clearances, record maintenance, accounting, and IT services.




Where are back offices physically located?
Back offices used to be located literally behind the front office or trading desk. These days, many financial corporations have moved their back office locations to lower cost sites, such as Florida or North Carolina, where rents and salaries are generally lower than big cities like New York or Chicago.


   The Bottom Line  

The back office plays a crucial role in supporting the front office (think sales/trading desk) by processing the trades made by customers of the bank or for the banks' own proprietary trading operations. Some of the functions of the back office are confirming trades and settlement instructions, clearances, record maintenance, regulatory compliance, accounting, and IT services. It goes without saying, then, that the front office activities could not be processed without the back office, and the back office would not exist were it not for the front offices sales and trading activities, making teamwork essential.



While frequently unseen, the back office performs critical duties stemming from front desk activities. By the same token, back office operations are a cost-center, leading many financial firms to locate their back office or operations teams in lower cost locations like Florida or North Carolina, where real estate and labor costs are lower than the city where the head office may be located, e.g. New York or Chicago.
What Is a Back Stop?  

In corporate finance and investment banking, a back stop (or backstop) is to provide last-resort support or to make a bid in a securities offering for the unsubscribed portion of shares.



When a company is trying to raise capital through an issuance—and wants to guarantee the amount received through the issue—it may get a back stop from an underwriter or a major shareholder, such as an investment bank, to buy any of its unsubscribed shares.





Key Takeaways

A back stop is the act of providing last-resort support or security in a securities offering for the unsubscribed portion of shares.When a company is trying to raise capital through an issuance, it may get a back stop from an underwriter or a major shareholder, such as an investment bank, to buy any of its unsubscribed shares.Back stops function as a type of "insurance" and support for the overall offering, ensuring that the offering does not fail if all shares are not subscribed.


   How a Back Stop Works  

A back stop functions as a form of insurance. While not an actual insurance plan, a company can guarantee that a certain amount of its offering will be purchased by particular organizations, usually investment banking firms, if the open market does not produce enough investors and a portion of the offering goes unsold.



If the organization providing the back stop is an investment banking firm, sub-underwriters representing the investment firm will enter into an agreement with the company. This agreement is referred to as a firm-commitment underwriting deal or contract, and it provides overall support for the offering by committing to purchase a specific number of unsold shares.



By entering into a firm-commitment underwriting agreement, the associated organization has claimed full responsibility for the quantity of shares specified if they initially go unsold, and promises to provide the associated capital in exchange for the available shares.



This gives assurance to the issuer that the minimum capital can be raised regardless of the open market activity. Additionally, all risk associated with the specified shares is effectively transferred to the underwritten organization.



If all of the offering is purchased through regular investment vehicles, the contract obligating the organization to purchase any unsold shares is rendered void, as the conditions surrounding the promise to purchase no longer exist.






The contracts between an issuer and the underwriting organization can take various forms. For example, the underwriting organization can provide the issuer with a revolving credit loan to boost credit ratings for the issuer. They may also issue letters of credit as guarantees to the entity raising capital through offerings.


   Special Considerations  

If the underwriting organization takes possession of any shares, as specified in the agreement, the shares belong to the organization to manage as it sees fit. The shares are treated the same way as any other investment purchased through normal market activity. The issuing company can impose no restrictions on how the shares are traded.



The underwriting organization may subsequently hold or sell the associated securities per the regulations that govern the activity overall.


   Example of a Back Stop  

In a rights offering, you may see a statement to this effect: "ABC Company will provide a 100 percent back stop of up to $100 million for any unsubscribed portion of the XYZ Company rights offering." If XYZ is trying to raise $200 million, but only raises $100 million through investors, then ABC Company purchases the remainder.




What Is a Back Stop in a Bond Issue?
Similar to the back stop in an equity placement, a back stop for a bond issue is a type of guarantee whereby the underwriting bank or syndicate will fix a price at which to purchase any unsold or unsubscribed bonds.




Who Are Backstop Purchasers?
If the underwriting bank or investment banking syndicate cannot or do not want to back stop a new issue, third-party backstop purchasers may be called upon to step in and buy any unsubscribed portion of a securities issue. These purchasers may provide a bid substantially below the issue price and/or may demand fees as compensation. They would then often try to sell off the holdings over time at a profit.




What Are Volcker Rule Backstop Provisions?
The Volcker Rule is a set of financial regulations that separates the commercial and investment banking activities of a firm. Its purpose is to prevent conflicts of interest and unfair practices to the detriment of a bank's customers. One provision of the Rule is to prevent the backstopping of a securities issue by an underwriting bank if it will create a conflict of interest. Moreover, a back stop would be prohibited if it would "result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States."
What Are Back-to-Back Letters of Credit?  

Back-to-back letters of credit are two letters of credit (LoCs) used together to finance a transaction. These are used primarily in international transactions. The first letter of credit serves as collateral for the second letter of credit. Back-to-back letters of credit are usually used in a transaction involving an intermediary between the buyer and seller, such as a broker.





Key Takeaways

A back-to-back letter of credit involves two letters of credit that are used to secure financing for a single transaction.These are usually used as a form of financial protection during international transactions.The first letter of credit is issued to an intermediary by the buyer's bank. The second letter of credit is issued by the intermediary's bank to the seller.Back-to-back letters of credit are useful in situations when it may be difficult for a buyer and seller to verify each other's creditworthiness.


   How Back-to-Back Letters of Credit Work  

Back-to-back letters of credit are made up of two different letters of credit, with a first one spurring the creation of the second.



With a back-to-back letter of credit, the buyer's bank issues one letter of credit to the intermediary or broker. The intermediary's bank issues the other letter of credit to the seller. With the original letter of credit from the buyer's bank in place, the broker goes to his own bank and has a second LoC issued, with the seller as the beneficiary.



The seller is ensured of payment upon fulfilling the terms of the contract and presenting the appropriate documentation to the intermediary's bank. In some cases, the buyer and seller may not even have knowledge of each other's identities. Depending on the type of transaction, this could be valuable to the parties involved.






In general, letters of credit (LoCs) are one of the most secure instruments available to international traders, according to the U.S. International Trade Administration. While gathering a foreign buyer's credit information is challenging, the exporter can be satisfied with the buyer's foreign bank's creditworthiness. The importer or buyer is protected as well, as the goods must be shipped before payment is sent.



Back-to-back LoCs essentially substitute the two issuing banks' credit for the buyer's credit and the intermediary's credit. The two letters of credit used in a back-to-back transaction typically have:



Different amounts or valuesDifferent expiration, shipping, and presentation datesInvoices allowed as substitutesOther terms in common


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Back-to-Back Letter of Credit  

A back-to-back letter of credit can offer privacy to a buyer and seller. They may be used as a substitute if a transferable letter of credit isn't available. They can also help facilitate trade between parties who may be negotiating internationally and cannot verify one another's credit.



However, fees and other charges may apply to a back-to-back letter of credit, and the process involves multiple steps and letters where terms may get murky or vary. As a result, banks tend to discourage using back-to-back letters of credit. If the beneficiary doesn't achieve the terms laid out, there could be a risk to the bank issuing the second letter of credit.


   Example of a Back-to-Back Letter of Credit Transaction  

Company XYZ is in the U.S. and sells heavy machinery. Company ABC is in China and wants to purchase heavy machinery from XYZ. However, XYZ does not want to take on the risk of defaulted payment by ABC. A London-based trading firm agrees to broker a deal between the two companies. The London firm wants to ensure that the trade is made and that it receives a commission for the deal.



Back-to-back letters of credit can be used to make sure the transaction goes through. So, ABC will request a letter of credit from an established Chinese bank, with the London-based firm as beneficiary. In turn, the London firm will use that letter of credit to go to its own established bank in the U.K. and have it issue a letter of credit to XYZ. Because the creditworthiness of the two banks is already established, it stands in for the creditworthiness of the other companies.



XYZ can now ship its heavy machinery, knowing that once the transaction is complete, it will be paid by the U.K. bank. The broker is also assured of being paid. The credit risk has been removed from the transaction.




What Is the Risk of a Back-to-Back Letter of Credit?
The primary risk is for the bank issuing the second letter of credit if the original beneficiary doesn't meet the terms and conditions or if there are issues with the settlement date's expiration. As a result, banks don't encourage their use. Generally, a letter of credit is a more secure form of payment for an exporter and less so for the importer.




Is a Back-to-Back Letter of Credit and Transferable Letter of Credit the Same?
A back-to-back letter of credit is not the same as a transferable letter of credit. With a transferable letter of credit, the beneficiary can transfer the letter of credit's rights and protection to another party. The transferable letter of credit must be either issued as transferable or amended to make it transferable. A back-to-back letter of credit comprises two different letters of credit that are not transferrable.




Are Back-to-Back Letters of Credit Irrevocable?
Typically, both letters of credit are irrevocable letters of credit. Each letter can't be canceled or modified without all participants' explicit agreement. Amendments can be complicated with a back-to-back letter of credit situation, as the second letter depends on the first.


   The Bottom Line  

The term back-to-back letter of credit describes a transaction involving two separate letters of credit, issued by banks on behalf of clients. These are often used to finance international transactions by companies that want to avoid the risk of doing business with an unknown trading partner.



Relying on this process while engaged in international trade can offer benefits and disadvantages, particularly if the letters are not structured well. Consult with a financial professional or your banker to discuss the potential risks and rewards of a back-to-back letter of credit.
What Is a Backdoor Roth IRA?  

A backdoor Roth IRA is a strategy rather than an official type of individual retirement account. It is a technique used by high-income earners—who exceed Roth IRA income limits—to convert their traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.



The backdoor Roth IRA strategy is not a tax dodge. When you transfer the assets of a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, you owe taxes on any funds—the principal, earnings, and appreciation—that have not been taxed previously.



If the IRA has been funded solely with tax-deductible contributions, then the entire value of the transferred assets will be taxed; however, as with any Roth IRA, if you follow the rules, you should owe no further taxes when you make withdrawals.





Key Takeaways


The backdoor Roth IRA is a strategy used by high earners for converting a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
Using this strategy, you can contribute to an IRA and roll them over to a Roth IRA or convert an entire IRA to a Roth.
The backdoor Roth IRA strategy is a legal way to get around the income limits that usually prevent high earners from owning Roth IRAs.
The backdoor Roth IRA strategy is not a tax dodge—in fact, it may incur higher taxes when it’s established—but you'll get the future tax savings of a Roth account.
The backdoor Roth IRA strategy is also beneficial for someone who anticipates having funds leftover in their traditional IRA because they can pass the money on to their heirs in a Roth IRA.



   Understanding Backdoor Roth IRAs  

A Roth IRA allows taxpayers to set aside a few thousand dollars from their annual earnings in a retirement savings account. The contributed money is after-tax dollars—meaning the funds are earnings that have been taxed in the year when they are contributed to the Roth IRA.


  Roth vs. Traditional  

A Roth IRA differs from a traditional IRA. The traditional IRA gives the earner an immediate tax break because they can take a tax deduction for their contributions in the year they are made, and no taxes are due until the money is withdrawn. When withdrawals are made, usually after retirement, the account holder will owe taxes on both the dollars invested and their earnings.



The problem for high-income taxpayers is that individuals who earn above a certain amount aren’t allowed to open or fund Roth IRAs. If your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) exceeds statutory ceilings, then the law starts phasing out the amount that you can contribute—between $129,000 and $144,000 for single filers and $204,000 and $214,000 for joint filers in 2022.



For 2023, the ranges are between $138,000 and $153,000 for single filers and $218,000 and $228,000 for joint filers. Once your annual income exceeds a specified threshold, you cannot participate at all—$214,000 ($228,000 in 2023) for joint filers and $144,000 ($153,000 in 2023) for single filers.



Traditional IRAs don’t have income ceilings for participation. And, since 2010, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) hasn’t had income limits that restrict who can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. As a result, the backdoor Roth IRA has become a tax-planning opportunity for higher-income taxpayers who ordinarily couldn’t contribute to a Roth IRA.



The way that backdoor Roth IRAs work has changed over the years. Although IRA funds that were transferred to Roth IRAs in pre-2018 conversions could be recharacterized as traditional IRA contributions before 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 banned the strategy of recharacterizing converted funds in a Roth IRA back to a traditional IRA contribution in conversions enacted after Dec. 31, 2017.






Some taxpayers who are ineligible to deduct IRA contributions use after-tax dollars to fund a traditional IRA and pay taxes again when withdrawing from the account just to have an IRA.


   How to Create a Backdoor Roth IRA  

You can create a backdoor Roth IRA in one of three ways:



Contribute money to an existing traditional IRA and then roll over the funds to a Roth IRA. Or you can roll over existing traditional IRA money into a Roth—as much as you want at one time, even if it’s more than the annual contribution limit.
Convert your entire traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
If your company 401(k) plan allows conversions, you can roll your 401(k) account over to a Roth IRA.



The custodial bank or brokerage for your IRA should be able to help you with the mechanics. If you have an employer-managed plan, you can contact the financial services firm that manages it to learn if your plan provides this opportunity.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more wealth-building advice.


   Tax Implications of a Backdoor Roth IRA  

Remember that in an IRA transfer or conversion to a Roth IRA, you still need to pay taxes on any money in your traditional IRA that hasn’t been taxed.



For example, if you contribute $6,000 to a traditional IRA, claim a deduction for the $6,000 on your tax return, and then convert that money to a Roth IRA, you’ll owe taxes on the $6,000.



You’ll also owe taxes on whatever money that IRA contribution earned between the date when it was contributed to the traditional IRA and the date when you converted it to a Roth IRA.



If you make after-tax contributions to a traditional IRA—that is, contribute funds that are nondeductible and taxable that year—these amounts will not be taxed on their transfer to the Roth IRA.



But if most of your IRA contributions were deducted from your income, and if your IRA has accumulated earnings or made investments that have appreciated over a long period, then most of the funds and investments that you convert to a Roth IRA likely will count as taxable income at the time of the conversion. That could kick you into a higher tax bracket that year; however, you may not have to pay tax on all the money; a pro-rata rule applies to prevent taxing the amounts attributable to after-tax contributions.



Also, the funds that you put into the Roth are considered converted funds, not contributions. That means you must wait five years for penalty-free access to your funds in your backdoor Roth IRA if you’re under age 59½. These converted funds differ from regular Roth IRA contributions, which can be withdrawn anytime without taxes or penalties.



On the positive side, a backdoor Roth IRA lets you get around the income and contribution limits that apply to traditional Roth IRAs:



Roth IRA Income Limits: For 2022, if your MAGI is $144,000 ($153,000 in 2023) or higher and you’re single (or $214,000 [$228,000 in 2023] or higher and you’re married filing jointly or a qualifying widow or widower), then you can’t contribute to a traditional Roth IRA. These limits don’t apply to backdoor Roth IRA conversions.
Roth IRA Contribution Limits: For 2022, you can contribute $6,000 yearly (or $7,000 if you are 50 or older) to a traditional Roth IRA. For 2023, you can contribute $6,500 yearly (or $7,500 if you are 50 or older).



With a backdoor Roth IRA conversion, these limits don’t apply.


   Benefits of a Backdoor Roth IRA  

Aside from getting around the limits, why would taxpayers want to take the extra steps involved in doing the backdoor Roth IRA dance? There are several good reasons.



For one thing, Roth IRAs don’t have required minimum distributions (RMDs), which means that account balances can create tax-deferred growth for as long as the account holder is alive. You can take out as much or as little as you want, whenever you want, or you can leave it all for your heirs.



Another reason is that a backdoor Roth contribution can mean significant tax savings over decades because Roth IRA distributions, unlike traditional IRA distributions, are not taxable.



The main advantage of a backdoor Roth IRA—as with Roth IRAs in general—is that you pay taxes upfront on your converted pretax funds, and everything after that is tax-free. This tax benefit is greatest if you think that tax rates will rise in the future or that your taxable income will be higher in the years after your backdoor Roth IRA is established than it is now—especially if you plan to withdraw after a distant retirement date.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Is a Backdoor Roth Still Allowed in 2022?
Under present law, a backdoor Roth individual retirement account (IRA) is legally permissible and respected by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), provided that tax law requirements are met.




Is a Backdoor Roth a Good Idea?
The backdoor Roth strategy can be beneficial if you earn too much to contribute to a Roth IRA or if you've determined that a Roth IRA is better for your retirement.




Do You Pay Taxes Twice on a Backdoor Roth IRA?
Traditional IRA contributions are tax-deferred until withdrawals are taken. When you convert your IRA to a Roth IRA, you pay taxes on your contributions and capital gains. When you withdraw from your Roth, there are no taxes because you've already paid them. So you only pay taxes once using the backdoor Roth IRA strategy.


   The Bottom Line  

If you’re thinking of using the backdoor Roth IRA strategy, crunch the numbers and consider the tax implications, especially if you are converting the entire balance of a traditional IRA. The amount of tax you owe could be huge.



Even given that, the backdoor Roth IRA strategy can have advantages—especially for high earners. Roth IRAs don’t have RMDs, so you can hold them forever and pass them on to your heirs. Another reason is that a backdoor Roth contribution can mean significant tax savings over the decades because Roth IRA distributions, unlike traditional IRA distributions, are not taxable.



Correction—Sept. 21, 2022: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the one-year rollover rule applied to a Roth conversion when such transactions are exempted from this rule.
What Is Backflush Costing?  

Backflush costing is a product costing system generally used in a just-in-time (JIT) inventory system. In short, it is an accounting method that records the costs associated with producing a good or service only after they are produced, completed, or sold. Backflush costing is also commonly referred to as backflush accounting.





Key Takeaways

Backflush costing is used by companies who generally have short production cycles, commoditized products, and a low or constant inventory.Backflush costing is an accounting method designed to record costs under specific conditions. Backflush accounting is another name for backflush costing. Backflush costing can be difficult to do and not every company meets the criteria to conduct backflush costing. 


   How Backflush Costing Works  

“Flushing” costs to the end of the production run eliminates the detailed tracking of expenses, such as raw material and labor costs, throughout the manufacturing process, which is a feature of traditional costing systems. This allows the company to simplify its expense tracking processes, thus saving accounting and process costs, but it may also limit the detail of information that the company retains related to individual costs for production and sales.



The total costs of a production run are recorded all at once, at the end of the process. Companies using backflush costing, therefore, primarily work backward, calculating the costs of products after they're sold, finished, or shipped. To do this, businesses assign standard charges to the goods they produce. Sometimes costs differ, so companies eventually need to recognize the variances in standard costs and actual costs.



Usually, the costs of products are calculated during various stages of the production cycle. By eliminating work-in-process (WIP) accounts, backflush costing is designed to simplify the accounting process and save businesses money.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Backflush Costing  

In theory, backflushing appears to be a sensible way to avoid the many complexities associated with assigning costs to products and inventory. Not logging costs during the various production stages enable companies to save time and reduce their expenses. Companies looking for ways to reduce their bottom lines may use backflush costing, but it isn't always an easy accounting method to implement.






The process of backflush costing makes it difficult for companies to audit because it doesn't always adhere to the basic fundamentals of accounting. 



However, backflushing can also be challenging to implement and is not an option available to all companies. Moreover, there are some other big caveats: businesses that do backflush costing lack a sequential audit trail and may not always conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). 


   Special Considerations  

Companies using backflush costing generally meet the following three conditions:



Short production cycles: Backflush costing shouldn’t be used for goods that take a long time to manufacture. As more time goes by, it becomes increasingly difficult to assign standard costs accurately.
Customized products: The process is not suitable for the fabrication of customized products since this requires the creation of a unique bill of materials for each item manufactured.
Material inventory levels are either low or constant: When inventories, the array of finished goods held by a company, are low, the bulk of manufacturing costs will flow into the costs of goods sold, and it is not deferred as inventory cost.
What Is a Backlog?  

A backlog is a buildup of work that needs to be completed. The term "backlog" has a number of uses in accounting and finance. It may, for example, refer to a company's sales orders waiting to be filled or a stack of financial paperwork, such as loan applications, that needs to be processed.



When a public company has a backlog, there can be implications for shareholders because the backlog may have an impact on the company's future earnings, as having a backlog could suggest the firm is unable to meet demand.





Key Takeaways

The term "backlog" refers to a buildup of work that has not been completed in a timely fashion.Backlogs may have an impact on a company's future earnings, as having a backlog could suggest the firm is unable to meet demand.An existing workload that exceeds current production capacity is a backlog.The presence of a backlog can have positive or negative implications depending on the specific situation.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding a Backlog  

The term backlog is used to indicate the existing workload that exceeds the production capacity of a firm or department, often used in construction or manufacturing.



The presence of a backlog can have positive or negative implications. For example, a rising backlog of product orders might indicate rising sales. On the other hand, companies generally want to avoid having a backlog as it could suggest increasing inefficiency in the production process. Likewise, a falling backlog might be a portentous sign of lagging demand but may also signify improving production efficiency. Naturally, unexpected backlogs can compromise forecasts and production schedules.



Backlogs may also apply to companies that develop products/services on a subscription basis, such as SaaS (software-as-a-service) providers. A backlog, in this case, is not due to the company being unable to meet demand but because the time for performance or provision of the service (i.e., future months of the subscription or contract) has not yet been reached.


   Example of a Backlog  

Consider a company that sells printed T-shirts. It has the capacity to print 1,000 T-shirts each day. Typically, this level of production is right in line with the demand for the company's shirts, as it receives approximately 1,000 daily orders.



One month, the company unveils a new T-shirt design that quickly catches on among college students. Suddenly, it is receiving 2,000 orders per day, but its production capacity remains at 1,000 shirts per day. Because the company is receiving more orders each day than it has the capacity to fill, its backlog grows by 1,000 shirts per day until it raises production to meet the increased demand.


   Real-World Examples  

When Apple (AAPL) debuted the iPhone X, a 10th-anniversary edition of the iPhone, in October 2017, overwhelming initial demand for the phone created a weeks-long backlog on pre-orders. Apple was forced to delay shipments to late November and then again to December for customers pre-ordering the phone upon launch. Many criticized the backlog as an example of poor sales forecasting by Apple, which saw a similar situation happen when the firm debuted its Apple Watch product in 2015.



The 2008 housing crisis resulted in a backlog of foreclosures in which lenders had large inventories of residential properties they needed to sell and get off the books. With homes going into foreclosure at a much faster rate than usual, lenders did not have the capacity to process all the foreclosures in a timely manner.



In many cases, these lender backlogs resulted in situations where delinquent borrowers were able to remain in their homes for several years without making any mortgage payments. The housing recovery did not begin in earnest until such backlogs were mostly cleared.
What Is a Backorder?  

A backorder is an order for a good or service that cannot be filled at the current time due to a lack of available supply. The item may not be held in the company's available inventory but could still be in production, or the company may need to still manufacture more of the product. Backorders are an indication that demand for a company's product outweighs its supply. They may also be known as the company's backlog.





Key Takeaways

A backorder is an order for a good or service that cannot be filled immediately because of a lack of available supply. Backorders give insight into a company's inventory management. A manageable backorder with a short turnaround is a net positive, but a large backorder with longer wait times can be problematic.Companies with manageable backorders tend to have high demand, while those that can't keep up may lose customers.However, backorders allow for a company to maintain lower levels of inventory, have lower risk of obsolesce and theft, and may result in natural marketing for its highly demanded product.Popular products in high demand (i.e. next generation gaming consoles or new iterations of cell phones) may experience backorders.


   Understanding Backorders  

The nature of the backorder and the number of items on backorder will affect the amount of time it takes before the customer eventually receives the ordered product. The higher the number of items back ordered, the higher the demand for the item. Backorders represent any amount of stock a company's customers have ordered but have not yet received because it currently isn't available in stock.



Just because they may lack a supply of inventory, that doesn't mean companies can't operate on backorder. In fact, companies can still do business even if they don't have inventory on the books. Keeping products on backorder helps boost demand, retain and increase the customer base, and creates value for their products.



A company's backorders are an important factor in its inventory management analysis. The number of items on backorder and how long it takes to fulfill these customer orders can provide insight into how well the company manages its inventory. A relatively manageable number of orders and a short turnaround time to fulfill orders generally mean the company is performing well. On the other hand, longer wait times and large backorders may be problematic.


   How to Account for Backorders  

Backorders or a company's backlog may be expressed as a dollar figure—as in the value of sales—or by the number of units ordered and/or sold.



Backorders often require special accounting. Companies normally inform customers that the product they've ordered is on backorder when the order is placed, and when delivery is expected.






Companies should keep in contact with customers when there is a problem with fulfilling their backorders as promised to ensure orders aren't canceled.



The sale is then recorded on the company's books as a backorder rather than a completed sale. If the customer decides to cancel the order, this doesn't affect the company's bottom line, and it won't have to reconcile its accounting records. The company will then place the order with its manufacturer to deliver the goods. Once the shipment is received, the company will then search for the purchase order and follow through with the delivery. The sale can be recorded and then checked off as complete.


   Advantages of Backorders  

The term backorder may conjure up negative images, but there can be positives to businesses that have these orders on the books.



Keeping a large supply of stock requires storage space, which, in turn, requires money. Companies that don't have their own storage centers have to pay for services to hold their inventory. By keeping a small amount of stock in supply and the rest on backorder alleviates the need for excess/extra storage, and therefore, reduces costs.



This cost reduction can be passed on to consumers, who will likely return because of a company's low prices. This is true when sales and demand for certain products is high, especially for new releases of highly popular goods.



Backorders also garner attention, and some may be enticed to know more about items that have sold out. Although this may conjure negative connotations to some, others will approach backordered goods as a good thing. Backordered goods are popular, in high demand, difficult to get, and may appear as a status symbol.


   Problems With Backorders  

If a company consistently sees items in backorder, this could be taken as a signal that the company's operations are far too lean. It may also mean the company is losing out on business by not providing the products demanded by its customers. If a customer sees products on backorder—and notices this frequently—they may decide to cancel orders, forcing the company to issue refunds and readjust their books.



When an item is on backorder, a customer may look elsewhere for a substitute product, especially if the expected wait time until the product becomes available is long. This can provide an opportunity for once loyal customers to try other companies' products and potentially switch their loyalties. Difficulties with proper inventory management can lead to the eventual loss of market share as customers become frustrated with the company's lack of product availability.



Backorders may require additional resources in managing pre-orders or clients that are waiting for their product. Instead of simply carrying inventory and selling it to customers, a company must incorporate receiving orders, managing obligations, coordinating logistics, and communicating to specific customers when their product is ready. The company may also require heavier use of public communication to monitor the situation and further inform the product's availability.






Some backorders are more important than others. When a drug is expected to not be available for a period of time, manufacturers must report anticipated shortages with the FDA. The FDA then broadcasts the expected timeline of availability.


   Example of Backorder  

When Apple, Inc. releases new products, they're often met with exuberant demand around the world. Early adopters often want to get their hands on the latest technology, and many users plan on upgrading their old technology for the newer product.



According to Apple's website, shipments will be sent when the items of order become available. Popular items that are not in stock will be noted with longer timeframes indicated on online orders. Some products may also not be eligible for deliveries with pre-selected time windows.



This is truly a natural part of Apple's business. In the company's 10-K, Apple mentions that "disruptions in the Company's supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting in interruptions of the supply of current products and delays in production ramps of new products."




How Long Does a Backorder Take?
A backorder is a specific situation relating to a direct company or product. There is no regulation or industry standards that stipulate how long a backorder will take. Some companies may publicly disclose when they believe their backorder will be resolved, while others will simply notify customers when their product is available.




What Does Backorder Mean?
An item on backorder is no longer is stock and often in high demand. The product availability is currently trying to be resolved. The company may be trying to manufacture more goods, resolve supply chain issues, or deliver final products to their storefronts.




What Is the Difference Between Backorder and Out of Stock?
A backorder and out-of-stock are similar. Whereas out-of-stock is an indicator that good is not available, a backorder often signifies that out-of-stock order may still be able to be ordered but is not available for immediate shipment. A company may keep a product as out-of-stock if it does not wish to further sell more units of that product. However, a backordered product is more likely to return due to a temporary delay in product availability.




Why Do Backorders Happen?
Backorders occur for several reasons. On the supply side, a company may simply run out of a good due to supply chain issues, underestimated manufacturing capabilities, or lack of delivery to physical storefronts. On the demand side, so many people may be interested in the product, especially if it is a new release of a popular product.




Are Backorders Bad for Business?
Backorders may be bad for business, as customers may search for alternatives instead of waiting for their product to arrive. However, there are a few things to consider. First, some back-ordered products like the next generation of video game consoles are not easily replaceable; loyal customers are often willing to wait. Second, back-ordered goods may garner headlines regarding the popularity of the product
What Is Backtesting?  

Backtesting is the general method for seeing how well a strategy or model would have done ex-post. Backtesting assesses the viability of a trading strategy by discovering how it would play out using historical data. If backtesting works, traders and analysts may have the confidence to employ it going forward.





Key Takeaways

Backtesting assesses the viability of a trading strategy or pricing model by discovering how it would have played out retrospectively using historical data.The underlying theory is that any strategy that worked well in the past is likely to work well in the future, and conversely, any strategy that performed poorly in the past is likely to perform poorly in the future.When testing an idea on historical data, it is beneficial to reserve a time period of historical data for testing purposes. If it is successful, testing it on alternate time periods or out-of-sample data can help confirm its potential viability.






   Understanding Backtesting  

Backtesting allows a trader to simulate a trading strategy using historical data to generate results and analyze risk and profitability before risking any actual capital.



A well-conducted backtest that yields positive results assures traders that the strategy is fundamentally sound and is likely to yield profits when implemented in reality. In contrast, a well-conducted backtest that yields suboptimal results will prompt traders to alter or reject the strategy.






Particularly complicated trading strategies, such as strategies implemented by automated trading systems, rely heavily on backtesting to prove their worth, as they are too arcane to evaluate otherwise.



As long as a trading idea can be quantified, it can be backtested. Some traders and investors may seek the expertise of a qualified programmer to develop the idea into a testable form. Typically, this involves a programmer coding the idea into the proprietary language hosted by the trading platform.



The programmer can incorporate user-defined input variables that allow the trader to "tweak" the system. An example of this would be in the simple moving average (SMA) crossover system. The trader would be able to input (or change) the lengths of the two moving averages used in the system. The trader could then backtest to determine which lengths of moving averages would have performed the best on the historical data.


   The Ideal Backtesting Scenario  

The ideal backtest chooses sample data from a relevant time period of a duration that reflects a variety of market conditions. In this way, one can better judge whether the results of the backtest represent a fluke or sound trading.



The historical data set must include a truly representative sample of stocks, including those of companies that eventually went bankrupt or were sold or liquidated. The alternative, including only data from historical stocks that are still around today, will produce artificially high returns in backtesting.



A backtest should consider all trading costs, however insignificant, as these can add up over the course of the backtesting period and drastically affect the appearance of a strategy’s profitability. Traders should ensure that their backtesting software accounts for these costs.



Out-of-sample testing and forward performance testing provide further confirmation regarding a system's effectiveness and can show a system's true colors before real cash is on the line. A strong correlation between backtesting, out-of-sample, and forward performance testing results is vital for determining the viability of a trading system. 


   Backtesting vs. Forward Performance Testing  

Forward performance testing, also known as paper trading, provides traders with another set of out-of-sample data on which to evaluate a system. Forward performance testing is a simulation of actual trading and involves following the system's logic in a live market. It is also called paper trading since all trades are executed on paper only; that is, trade entries and exits are documented along with any profit or loss for the system, but no real trades are executed.



An important aspect of forward performance testing is to follow the system's logic exactly; otherwise, it becomes difficult, if not impossible, to accurately evaluate this step of the process. Traders should be honest about any trade entries and exits and avoid behavior such as cherry-picking trades or not including a trade on paper rationalizing that "I would have never taken that trade." If the trade would have occurred following the system's logic, it should be documented and evaluated.


   Backtesting vs. Scenario Analysis  

While backtesting uses actual historical data to test for fit or success, scenario analysis makes use of hypothetical data that simulates various possible outcomes. For instance, scenario analysis will simulate specific changes in the values of the portfolio's securities or key factors that take place, such as a change in the interest rate.



Scenario analysis is commonly used to estimate changes to a portfolio's value in response to an unfavorable event and may be used to examine a theoretical worst-case scenario.


   Some Pitfalls of Backtesting  

For backtesting to provide meaningful results, traders must develop their strategies and test them in good faith, avoiding bias as much as possible. That means the strategy should be developed without relying on the data used in backtesting.



That’s harder than it seems. Traders generally build strategies based on historical data. They must be strict about testing with different data sets from those they train their models on. Otherwise, the backtest will produce glowing results that mean nothing.



Similarly, traders must avoid data dredging, in which they test a wide range of hypothetical strategies against the same set of data, which will also produce successes that fail in real-time markets because there are many invalid strategies that would beat the market over a specific time period by chance.



One way to compensate for the tendency to data dredge or cherry-pick is to use a strategy that succeeds in the relevant, or in-sample, time period and backtest it with data from a different, or out-of-sample, time period. If in-sample and out-of-sample backtests yield similar results, then they are more likely to be proved valid.
What Is Backup Withholding?  

Backup withholding is a tax that is levied on investment income, at an established tax rate, as the investor withdraws it. For payments not subject to withholding, payers are required to withhold the tax. Backup withholding helps to ensure that government tax-collecting agencies, such as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or Canada Revenue Agency, will be able to receive income taxes owed to them from investors’ earnings.



Backup withholding may be applied when an investor has not met rules regarding taxpayer identification numbers (TIN). At the time the investor withdraws his or her investment income, the amount mandated by the backup withholding tax is remitted to the government, immediately providing the tax-collecting body with the required funds but leaving the investor with less short-term cash flow.





Key Takeaways

Backup withholding are funds set aside for tax purposes for withdrawn investment income.Backup withholding is used by the IRS to make sure it collects taxes on income that an investor may have already spent before his their tax bill comes due.Backup withholding at a rate of 24% may be applied to taxpayers who provide an incorrect taxpayer identification number (TIN) or do not report certain types of income.Some payments subject to backup withholding are interest payments, dividends, and rents.Retirement benefits and unemployment compensation are exempt from backup withholding.


   How Backup Withholding Works  

Investors commonly earn income—for example, interest payments, dividends, and distributions—from assets in which they have invested. While this income is taxable at the time it is received, the taxes owed on a calendar year’s investment income only come due once every year, during tax season.



Thus, investors could potentially spend all of their investment income before the annual income taxes come due. This could render them unable to pay taxes, leaving the IRS with the difficult and expensive job of collecting the taxes owed. It is primarily this risk that motivates the government to sometimes require backup withholding taxes to be levied by financial institutions at the time investment income is earned.



Some taxpayers are exempt from backup withholding. If you've reported your name and SSN to the payer with Form W-9 and it matches the IRS documentation and if the IRS has not notified you that you are subject to mandatory backup withholding, you could be exempt.


   Payments Subject to Backup Withholding  

For those not exempt, the following are common payments types that could be subject to backup withholding:



InterestDividendsGovernment transfersRentsRoyaltiesCommissionsGambling winningsPatronagePayments from brokers on securities transactionsPayments from fishing boat operators


   Withholding Due to Incorrect Information  

Taxpayers may also be subject to backup withholding if they did not provide the correct TIN or if they did not report dividend, interest, or patronage dividend income to the IRS. Other types of payments also subject to backup withholding include rents, royalty payments, profits, commissions, fees, and other payment for work as an independent contractor. Gambling winnings may also be subject to backup withholding if they were not subject to standard gambling withholding.



If a contractor or investor does not provide the correct TIN to receive payments that are reportable on Form 1099, the payer is required to withhold at a rate of 24%. Payers might also be required to withhold at that rate if the IRS informs them that the payees underreported interest or dividends on their income tax returns. In such an instance, the tax filer will be notified four times over 120 days of the issue and the intent to institute backup withholding.



If a tax filer’s 1099 indicates backup withholding, that amount can be applied as a credit against any income tax filing for that year.


   Withholding Due to Unreported Investment Income  

The IRS may also require backup withholding if you or your broker have not reported dividend or interest income received from investments held. Today, this is less common due to automated reporting by most brokerage firms. In the case that you have failed to report or under-reported interest or dividends, the IRS will notify you via four notices mailed to your home address over a period of seven months regarding future backup withholding.






Backup withholding is used by the IRS to make sure it collects taxes on income that an investor may have already spent before his or her tax bill comes due.




Is Backup Withholding a Bad Thing?
It could be a bad thing since it ties up money with the IRS that could otherwise be used for investment purposes. If you are subject to backup withholding, however, you may receive some of that money back as a tax refund.




Who Is Exempt from Backup Withholding?
Most American citizens are exempted from backup withholding so long as their tax identification number (TIN) or social security number is on file with their broker, and corresponds with their legal name. Retirement accounts and unemployment income are also exempted.




Who Is Subject to Backup Withholding?
You may be subject to backup withholding if you are a foreign citizen, or are an American who has not provided your correct TIN/SSN, made the proper certifications, or reported all your taxable interest and dividends on your tax return to the IRS.


   The Bottom Line  

The IRS imposes backup withholding on certain investment income to prevent tax shortfalls, but the practice also ties up funds that could otherwise be invested. Thankfully, most Americans are exempted from backup withholding, so long as a social security number or taxpayer ID is on file and matches the personal information of the brokerage account holder.
What Is Backward Integration?  

Backward integration is a form of vertical integration in which a company expands its role to fulfill tasks formerly completed by businesses up the supply chain. In other words, backward integration is when a company buys another company that supplies the products or services needed for production. For example, a company might buy their supplier of inventory or raw materials. Companies often complete backward integration by acquiring or merging with these other businesses, but they can also establish their own subsidiary to accomplish the task. Complete vertical integration occurs when a company owns every stage of the production process, from raw materials to finished goods/services.





Key Takeaways

Backward integration is when a company expands its role to fulfill tasks formerly completed by businesses up the supply chain.Backward integration often involves is buying or merging with another company that supplies its products.Companies pursue backward integration when it is expected to result in improved efficiency and cost savings.Backward integration can be capital intensive, meaning it often requires large sums of money to purchase part of the supply chain.


   Understanding Backward Integration  

Companies often use integration as a means to take over a portion of the company's supply chain. A supply chain is the group of individuals, organizations, resources, activities, and technologies involved in the manufacturing and sale of a product. The supply chain starts with the delivery of raw materials from a supplier to a manufacturer and ends with the sale of a final product to an end-consumer.



Backward integration is a strategy that uses vertical integration to boost efficiency. Vertical integration is when a company encompasses multiple segments of the supply chain with the goal of controlling a portion, or all, of their production process. Vertical integration might lead a company to control its distributors that ship their product, the retail locations that sell their product, or in the case of backward integration, their suppliers of inventory and raw materials. In short, backward integration occurs when a company initiates a vertical integration by moving backward in its industry's supply chain.



An example of backward integration might be a bakery that purchases a wheat processor or a wheat farm. In this scenario, a retail supplier is purchasing one of its manufacturers, therefore cutting out the intermediary, and hindering competition. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Backward Integration vs. Forward Integration  

Forward integration is also a type of vertical integration, which involves the purchase or control of a company's distributors. An example of forward integration might be a clothing manufacturer that typically sells its clothes to retail department stores; instead, opens its own retail locations. Conversely, backward integration might involve the clothing manufacturer buying a textile company that produces the material for their clothing.



In short, backward integration involves buying part of the supply chain that occurs prior to the company's manufacturing process, while forward integration involves buying part of the process that occurs after the company's manufacturing process.






Netflix Inc., which started out as a DVD rental company supplying TV and film content, used backward integration to expand its business model by creating original content. 


   Advantages of Backward Integration  

Companies pursue backward integration when it is expected to result in improved efficiency and cost savings. For example, backward integration might cut transportation costs, improve profit margins, and make the firm more competitive. Costs can be controlled significantly from production through to the distribution process. Businesses can also gain more control over their value chain, increasing efficiency, and gaining direct access to the materials that they need. In addition, they can keep competitors at bay by gaining access to certain markets and resources, including technology or patents.


   Disadvantages of Backward Integration  

Backward integration can be capital intensive, meaning it often requires large sums of money to purchase part of the supply chain. If a company needs to purchase a supplier or production facility, it may need to take on large amounts of debt to accomplish backward integration. Although the company might realize cost savings, the cost of the additional debt might reduce any of the cost savings. Also, the added debt to the company's balance sheet might prevent them from getting approved for additional credit facilities from their bank in the future.



In some cases, it can be more efficient and cost-effective for companies to rely on independent distributors and suppliers. Backward integration would be undesirable if a supplier could achieve greater economies of scale–meaning lower costs as the number of units produced increases. Sometimes, the supplier might be able to provide input goods at a lower cost versus the manufacturer had it became the supplier as well as the producer.



Companies that engage in backward integration might become too large and difficult to manage. As a result, companies might stray away from their core strengths or what made the company so profitable. 


   A Real-World Example of Backward Integration  

Many large companies and conglomerates conduct backward integration, including Amazon.com Inc. Amazon began as an online book retailer in 1995, procuring books from publishers. In 2009, it opened its own dedicated publishing division, acquiring the rights to both older and new titles. It now has several imprints.



Although it still sells books produced by others, its own publishing efforts have boosted profits by attracting consumers to its own products, helped control distribution on its Kindle platform, and given it leverage over other publishing houses. In short, Amazon used backward integration to expand its business and become both a book retailer and a book publisher.
What Is Backwardation?  

Backwardation is when the current price, or spot price, of an underlying asset is higher than prices trading in the futures market.





Key Takeaways

Backwardation is when the current price of an underlying asset is higher than prices trading in the futures market.Backwardation can occur as a result of a higher demand for an asset currently than the contracts maturing in the coming months through the futures market.Traders use backwardation to make a profit by selling short at the current price and buying at the lower futures price.


   Understanding Backwardation  

The slope of the curve for futures prices is important because the curve is used as a sentiment indicator. The expected price of the underlying asset is always changing, in addition to the price of the future's contract, based on fundamentals, trading positioning, and supply and demand.



The spot price is a term that describes the current market price for an asset or investment, such as a security, commodity, or a currency. The spot price is the price at which the asset can be bought or sold currently and will change throughout a day or over time due to supply and demand forces.



Should a futures contract strike price be lower than today's spot price, it means there is the expectation that the current price is too high and the expected spot price will eventually fall in the future. This situation is called backwardation.



For example, when futures contracts have lower prices than the spot price, traders will sell short the asset at its spot price and buy the futures contracts for a profit. This drives the expected spot price lower over time until it eventually converges with the futures price.



For traders and investors, lower futures prices or backwardation is a signal that the current price is too high. As a result, they expect the spot price will eventually fall as the expiration dates of the futures contracts approaches.



Backwardation is sometimes confused with an inverted futures curve. In essence, a futures market expects higher prices at longer maturities and lower prices as you move closer to the present day when you converge at the present spot price. The opposite of backwardation is contango, where the futures contract price is higher than the expected price at some future expiration.



Backwardation can occur as a result of a higher demand for an asset currently than the contracts maturing in the future through the futures market. The primary cause of backwardation in the commodities' futures market is a shortage of the commodity in the spot market. Manipulation of supply is common in the crude oil market. For example, some countries attempt to keep oil prices at high levels to boost their revenues. Traders that find themselves on the losing end of this manipulation and can incur significant losses.



Since the futures contract price is below the current spot price, investors who are net long on the commodity benefit from the increase in futures prices over time, as the futures price and spot price converge. Additionally, a futures market experiencing backwardation is beneficial to speculators and short-term traders who wish to gain from arbitrage.



However, investors can lose money from backwardation if futures prices continue to fall, and the expected spot price does not change due to market events or a recession. Also, investors trading backwardation due to a commodity shortage can see their positions change rapidly if new suppliers come online and ramp up production.


   Futures Basics  

Futures contracts are financial contracts that obligate a buyer to purchase an underlying asset and a seller to sell an asset at a preset date in the future. A futures price is the price of an asset's futures contract that matures and settles in the future.



For example, a December futures contract matures in December. Futures allow investors to lock in a price, by either buying or selling the underlying security or commodity. Futures have expiration dates and preset prices. These contracts allow investors to take delivery of the underlying asset at maturity, or offset the contract with a trade. The net difference between the purchase and sale prices would be cash settled.





Pros

Backwardation can be beneficial to speculators and short-term traders wishing to gain from arbitrage.
Backwardation can be used as a leading indicator signaling that spot prices will fall in the future.



Cons

Investors can lose money from backwardation if futures prices continue to move lower.
Trading backwardation due to a commodity shortage can lead to losses if new suppliers come online to boost production.





   Backwardation vs. Contango  

If prices are higher with each successive maturity date in the futures market, it's described as an upward sloping forward curve. This upward slope—known as contango—is the opposite of backwardation. Another name for this upward sloping forward curve is forwardation.



In contango, the price of the November futures contract is higher than October's, which is higher than July's and so on. Under normal market conditions, it makes sense that prices of futures contracts increase the farther the maturity date since they include investment costs such as carrying costs or storage costs for a commodity.



When futures prices are higher than current prices, there's the expectation that the spot price will rise to converge with the futures price. For example, traders will sell or short futures contracts that have higher prices in the future and purchase at the lower spot prices. The result is more demand for the commodity driving the spot price higher. Over time, the spot price and the futures price converge.



A futures market can shift between contango and backwardation and remain in either state for a short or extended period.


   Backwardation Example  

For example, let's say the there was a crisis in the production of West Texas Intermediate crude oil due to poor weather. As a result, the current supply of oil falls dramatically. Traders and businesses rush in and buy the oil, which pushes the spot price to $150 per barrel.



However, traders expect the weather issues to be temporary. As a result, the prices of futures contracts for the end of the year remain relatively unchanged, at $90 per barrel. The oil markets would be in backwardation.



Over the course of the next few months, the weather issues are resolved, and crude oil production and supplies get back to normal levels. Over time, the increased production pushes down spot prices to converge with the end-of-year futures contracts.
What Is Bad Credit?  

Bad credit refers to a person's history of not paying bills on time and the likelihood that they will fail to make timely payments in the future. For individuals it is often reflected in a low credit score. Having bad credit makes it difficult to borrow money, especially at competitive interest rates. Businesses can also have bad credit.





Key Takeaways

A person or business is considered to have bad credit if they have a history of not paying their bills on time or owe too much money.Bad credit for individuals is often reflected in a low credit score, typically under 580 on a scale of 300 to 850.Would-be borrowers with bad credit will find it harder to get a loan or obtain a credit card.


   Understanding Bad Credit  

Most Americans who have ever borrowed money or signed up for a credit card will have a credit file at one or more of the three major credit bureaus, Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. The information in those files, including how much money they owe and whether they have paid their bills on time, is used to compute their credit score, a number that's intended as a guide to their creditworthiness. The most common credit score in the United States is the FICO score, named for the Fair Isaac Corporation, which devised it.



A FICO score is made up of five major elements, assigned different weights:



35%—payment history. This factor is given the greatest weight. It indicates whether the person has paid their credit bills on time. Missing by just a few days can count, although the more delinquent the payment, the worse it is considered.
30%—total amount owed. This includes mortgages, credit card balances, car loans, any bills in collections, court judgments, and other debts. What's especially important here is the person's credit utilization ratio, which compares how much money they have available to borrow (such as the total limits on their credit cards) to how much they owe at any given time. Having a high credit utilization ratio (say, above 20% or 30%) can be viewed as a danger signal and result in a lower credit score.
15%—length of credit history. Longer is better.
10%—mix of credit types. This can include mortgages, car loans, and credit cards. Having several types is a plus.
10%—new credit. This includes any credit the person has recently taken on or applied for. Lenders can consider it a red flag if you're applying for a lot of credit.


   Examples of Bad Credit  

FICO scores range from 300 to 850, and borrowers with scores of 579 or lower are generally considered to have bad credit. According to Experian, about 62% of people with scores at or below 579 are likely to become seriously delinquent on their loans in the future, making them poor risks for lenders.



Scores between 580 and 669 are labeled as "fair." These borrowers are substantially less likely to become seriously delinquent on loans, making them much less risky to lend to than those with bad credit scores. However, even borrowers within this range may be forced to pay higher interest rates or have trouble securing loans at all, compared with borrowers who are closer to that top 850 mark.


   How to Improve Bad Credit  

If you have bad credit (or fair credit), there are steps you can take to get your credit score above 669—and keep it there. Here are some tips for accomplishing that, straight from FICO.


  Set up Automatic Online Payments  

Do this for all of your credit cards and loans, or at least get on the email or text reminder lists provided by the lenders. This will help ensure that you remember to pay at least the minimum on time every month.






Beware of advertised "quick fixes" to your credit score. Experts warn that there's no such thing.


  Pay Down Credit Card Debt  

Make payments above the minimum amount due whenever possible. Set a realistic repayment goal and work toward it gradually. Having high total credit card debt damages your credit score and paying more than the minimum due can help raise it.


  Check Interest Rate Disclosures  

Credit card accounts provide these disclosures. Focus on paying off the highest-interest debt fastest. This will free up the most cash, which you can then begin to apply to other, lower-interest debts.﻿


  Keep Unused Credit Card Accounts Open  

Don't close credit card accounts that you no longer use. And don't open new accounts that you don't need. Either move can damage your credit score.



If bad credit has made it difficult for you to get a regular credit card, consider applying for a secured credit card. It is similar to a bank debit card, in that it allows you to spend only the amount you have on deposit. Having a secured card and making timely payments on it can help you rebuild a bad credit score and eventually qualify for a regular card. It also is a good way for young adults to begin to establish a credit history.




How Long Does It Take to Repair Bad Credit?
This depends on how bad your credit score is to start. If you're recovering from a bankruptcy, it can take years to build up a good credit score. However, paying down debt to decrease your credit utilization ratio can have an impact in as little as a couple of months. And be sure to keep paying your credit bills on time.




Can I Open Too Many Credit Cards?
There's no set limit on how many lines of credit you can have open at one time. However, applying for too many cards in a short period can hurt your credit score. Consider how much credit you actually need before opening a new card account.




What Is the Most Important Factor in My Credit Score?
Your payment history is the single most important factor in your credit score. Paying on time every month will have the biggest impact on your credit history. Missing payments can lower your score quickly and significantly.


   The Bottom Line  

Bad credit can be a major roadblock, especially if you're hoping to borrow money to purchase a home or a car. But it doesn't have to be permanent. If you have bad credit, paying your debts on time and paying down high balances can improve your credit score and make you more attractive to lenders. If you feel like you're drowning in debt, a nonprofit credit counselor may be able to help.
What Is Bad Debt?  

Bad debt is an amount of money that a creditor must write off if a borrower defaults on the loans. If a creditor has a bad debt on the books, it becomes uncollectible and is recorded as a charge-off. Bad debt is a contingency that must be accounted for by all businesses that extend credit to customers, as there is always a risk that payment won't be collected. These entities can estimate how much of their receivables may become uncollectible by using either the accounts receivable (AR) aging method or the percentage of sales method.





Key Takeaways

Bad debt refers to loans or outstanding balances owed that are no longer deemed recoverable and must be written off.Incurring bad debt is part of the cost of doing business with customers, as there is always some default risk associated with extending credit.To comply with the matching principle, bad debt expense must be estimated using the allowance method in the same period in which the sale occurs.There are two main ways to estimate an allowance for bad debts: the percentage sales method and the accounts receivable aging method.Bad debts can be written off on both business and individual tax returns.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Bad Debt  

Bad debt is any credit advanced by any lender to a debtor that shows no promise of ever being collected, either partially or in full. Any lender can have bad debt on their books, whether that's a bank or other financial institution, a supplier, or a vendor.



Bad debts end up as such because the debtor can't or refuses to pay because of bankruptcy, financial difficulty, or negligence. These entities may exhaust every possible avenue to collect on bad debts before deeming them uncollectible, including collection activity and legal action.



Businesses must account for bad debt expenses using one of two methods. The first is the direct write-off method, which involves writing off accounts when they are identified as uncollectible. While this method records the precise figure for accounts determined to be uncollectible, it fails to adhere to the matching principle used in accrual accounting and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



The second is the matching principle, which requires that expenses be matched to related revenues in the same accounting period they are generated. Bad debt expense must be estimated using the allowance method in the same period and appears on the income statement under the sales and general administrative expense section. Since a company can't predict which accounts will end up in default, it establishes an amount based on an anticipated figure. In this case, historical experience helps estimate the percentage of money expected to become bad debt.






The direct write-off method is used in the United States for income tax purposes.


   Special Considerations  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows businesses to write off bad debt on Schedule C of tax Form 1040 if they previously reported it as income. Bad debt may include loans to clients and suppliers, credit sales to customers, and business-loan guarantees. However, deductible bad debt does not typically include unpaid rents, salaries, or fees.



For example, a food distributor that delivers a shipment to a restaurant on credit in December will record the sale as income on its tax return for that year. But if the restaurant goes out of business in January and does not pay the invoice, the food distributor can write off the unpaid bill as a bad debt on its tax return in the following year.



Individuals are also able to deduct a bad debt from their taxable income if they previously included the amount in their income or loaned out cash and can prove that they intended to make a loan at the time of the transaction and not a gift. The IRS classifies non-business bad debt as short-term capital losses.






The term bad debt can also be used to describe debts that are taken to pay for goods that don't appreciate. In other words, bad debt is a form of borrowing that doesn't help your bottom line. In this sense, bad debt is in contrast to good debt, which an individual or company takes out to help generate income or increase their overall net worth.


   How to Record Bad Debts  

Recording bad debt involves a debit and a credit entry. Here's how it's done:



A debit entry is made to a bad debt expense
An offsetting credit entry is made to a contra asset account, which is also referred to as the allowance for doubtful accounts



The allowance for doubtful accounts nets against the total AR presented on the balance sheet to reflect only the amount estimated to be collectible. This allowance accumulates across accounting periods and may be adjusted based on the balance in the account.



Payments received later for bad debts that have already been written off are booked as bad debt recovery.


   Methods of Estimating Bad Debt  

We've established that bad debts must be recorded. But what amounts are listed on corporate financial statements? This involves estimating uncollectible balances using one of two methods. This can be done through statistical modeling using an AR aging method or through a percentage of net sales. We've highlighted the basics of each below.


  Accounts Receivable Aging Method  

The AR aging method groups all outstanding accounts receivable by age, and specific percentages are applied to each group. The aggregate of all groups' results is the estimated uncollectible amount. This method determines the expected losses to delinquent and bad debt by using a company's historical data and data from the industry as a whole. The specific percentage typically increases as the age of the receivable increases to reflect rising default risk and decreasing collectibility.



Let's say a company has $70,000 of accounts receivable less than 30 days outstanding and $30,000 of accounts receivable more than 30 days outstanding. Based on previous experience, 1% of AR less than 30 days old will not be collectible, and 4% of AR at least 30 days old will be uncollectible.



This means the company must report an allowance and bad debt expense of $1,900. This is calculated as:



($70,000 x 1%) + ($30,000 x 4%)



If the next accounting period results in an estimated allowance of $2,500 based on outstanding accounts receivable, only $600 ($2,500 - $1,900) will be the bad debt expense in the second period.


  Percentage of Sales Method  

A bad debt expense can be estimated by taking a percentage of net sales based on the company’s historical experience with bad debt. This method applies a flat percentage to the total dollar amount of sales for the period. Companies regularly make changes to the allowance for doubtful accounts so that they correspond with the current statistical modeling allowances.



Using the example above, let's say a company expects that 3% of net sales are not collectible. If the total net sales for the period is $100,000, the company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts for $3,000 while simultaneously reporting $3,000 in bad debt expense.



If the following accounting period results in net sales of $80,000, an additional $2,400 is reported in the allowance for doubtful accounts, and $2,400 is recorded in the second period in bad debt expense. The aggregate balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts after these two periods is $5,400.




What Is Bad Debt in Accounting?
Bad debt is debt that creditor companies and individuals can write off as uncollectible.




What Is Bad Debt Considered?
Bad debt is considered a normal part of operating a business that extends credit to customers or clients. Companies should estimate a total amount of bad debt at the beginning of every year to help them budget for that year and account for non-collectible receivables.




What Type of Asset Is Bad Debt?
Bad debt is a contra asset, which reduces a business's accounts receivable.


   The Bottom Line  

Bad debt is debt that cannot be collected. It is a part of operating a business if that company allows customers to use credit for purchases. Bad debt is accounted for by crediting a contra asset account and debiting a bad expense account, which reduces the accounts receivable.
What Is a Bad Debt Expense?  

A bad debt expense is recognized when a receivable is no longer collectible because a customer is unable to fulfill their obligation to pay an outstanding debt due to bankruptcy or other financial problems. Companies that extend credit to their customers report bad debts as an allowance for doubtful accounts on the balance sheet, which is also known as a provision for credit losses.





Key Takeaways

Bad debt expense is an unfortunate cost of doing business with customers on credit, as there is always a default risk inherent to extending credit.The direct write-off method records the exact amount of uncollectible accounts as they are specifically identified.In order to comply with the matching principle, bad debt expense must be estimated using the allowance method in the same period in which the sale occurs.There are two main ways to estimate an allowance for bad debts: the percentage sales method and the accounts receivable aging method.The allowance method creates a contra asset allowance account that reduces the net amount of accounts receivable.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Bad Debt Expense  

When a company makes a credit sale, it books a credit to revenue and a debit to an account receivable. The problem with this accounts receivable balance is there is no guarantee the company will collect the payment. For many different reasons, a company may be entitled to receiving money for a credit sale but may never actually receive those funds.



Because the company may not actually receive all accounts receivable amounts, Accounting rules requires a company to estimate the amount it may not be able to collect. This amount must then be recorded as a reduction against net income because, even though revenue had been booked, it never materialized into cash.



This expense is called bad debt expenses, and they are generally classified as sales and general administrative expense. Though part of an entry for bad debt expense resides on the balance sheet, bad debt expense is posted to the income statement. Recognizing bad debts leads to an offsetting reduction to accounts receivable on the balance sheet—though businesses retain the right to collect funds should the circumstances change.


   How to Calculate Bad Debt Expense  

There are two different methods used to recognize bad debt expense. Using the direct write-off method, uncollectible accounts are written off directly to expense as they become uncollectible. On the other hand, the allowance method accrues an estimate that gets continually revised.


  Direct Write-Off Method  

The direct write-off method is used in the U.S. for income tax purposes. However, while the direct write-off method records the exact amount of uncollectible accounts, it fails to uphold the matching principle used in accrual accounting and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The matching principle requires that expenses be matched to related revenues in the same accounting period in which the revenue transaction occurs.



The major problem with the direct write-off is the unpredictability of when the expense may occur. Consider a company that has a single customer that has a material amount of pending accounts receivable. Under the direct write-off method, 100% of the expense would be recognized not only during a period that can't be predicted but also not during the period of the sale.



The entries to post bad debt using the direct write-off method result in a debit to 'Bad Debt Expense' and a credit to 'Accounts Receivable'. There is no allowance, and only one entry needs to be posted for the entry receivable to be written off.


  Allowance Method  

The allowance method is an accounting technique that enables companies to take anticipated losses into consideration in its financial statements to limit overstatement of potential income. To avoid an account overstatement, a company will estimate how much of its receivables from current period sales that it expects will be delinquent.



Because no significant period of time has passed since the sale, a company does not know which exact accounts receivable will be paid and which will default. So, an allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on an anticipated, estimated figure.



A company will debit bad debts expense and credit this allowance account. The allowance for doubtful accounts is a contra-asset account that nets against accounts receivable, which means that it reduces the total value of receivables when both balances are listed on the balance sheet. This allowance can accumulate across accounting periods and may be adjusted based on the balance in the account.


   How to Estimate Bad Debt Expense  

Two primary methods exist for estimating the dollar amount of accounts receivables not expected to be collected. Bad debt expense can be estimated using statistical modeling such as default probability to determine its expected losses to delinquent and bad debt. The statistical calculations can utilize historical data from the business as well as from the industry as a whole. The specific percentage will typically increase as the age of the receivable increases, to reflect increasing default risk and decreasing collectibility.



Alternatively, a bad debt expense can be estimated by taking a percentage of net sales, based on the company’s historical experience with bad debt. Companies regularly make changes to the allowance for credit losses entry, so that they correspond with the current statistical modeling allowances.


  Accounts Receivable Aging Method  

The aging method groups all outstanding accounts receivable by age, and specific percentages are applied to each group. The aggregate of all groups' results is the estimated uncollectible amount. For example, a company has $70,000 of accounts receivable less than 30 days outstanding and $30,000 of accounts receivable more than 30 days outstanding.



Based on previous experience, 1% of accounts receivable less than 30 days old will not be collectible and 4% of accounts receivable at least 30 days old will be uncollectible. Therefore, the company will report an allowance and bad debt expense of $1,900 (($70,000 * 1%) + ($30,000 * 4%)). If the next accounting period results in an estimated allowance of $2,500 based on outstanding accounts receivable, only $600 ($2,500 - $1,900) will be the bad debt expense in the second period.


  Percentage of Sales Method  

The sales method applies a flat percentage to the total dollar amount of sales for the period. For example, based on previous experience, a company may expect that 3% of net sales are not collectible. If the total net sales for the period is $100,000, the company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts for $3,000 while simultaneously reporting $3,000 in bad debt expense.



If the following accounting period results in net sales of $80,000, an additional $2,400 is reported in the allowance for doubtful accounts, and $2,400 is recorded in the second period in bad debt expense. The aggregate balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts after these two periods is $5,400.


   Example of Bad Debt Expense  

As part of its 2021 annual report, Amazon reported details in its notes to the financial statements regarding accounts receivables, allowance for doubtful accounts, and bad debt expense. Although bad debt expense is not explicitly called out in its financial statements, assumptions can be made based on footnote disclosures about their allowance estimates.















Amazon 2021 Balance Sheet, Assets.



From the financial statement snippet above, the important words to note is "net and other". This means that the gross amount of accounts receivable have been reduced. Instead of showing the gross accounts receivable and an offsetting allowance for doubtful accounts, Amazon has combined these two amounts. At the end of 2021, Amazon reported $32.89 billion of accounts receivable.



More information about this balance is disclosed in the notes below.















Amazon 2021 Balance Sheet, Disclosure Notes.



Based on the note disclosure, Amazon's allowance for doubtful accounts is $1.1 billion. This means the gross amount of accounts receivable is actually over $1 billion higher than what the company is showing on its financial statements. However, due to conservatism, this balance has been reduced.



In addition, it's important to note the change in the allowance from one year to the next. Because the allowance went relatively unchanged at $1.1 billion in both 2020 and 2021, the entry to bad debt expense would not have been material. However, the jump from $718 million in 2019 to $1.1 billion in 2022 would have resulted in a roughly $400 million bad debt expense to reconcile the allowance to its new estimate.




What Are Examples of Bad Debt Expense?
Consider a company going bankrupt that can not pay for all of its bills. Some of the people it owes money to will not be made whole, meaning those people must recognize a loss. This situation represents bad debt expense on the side that is not going to collect the funds they are owed.




Is Bad Debt an Expense or a Loss?
Technically, "bad debt" is classified as an expense. It is reported along with other selling, general, and administrative costs. In either case, bad debt represents a reduction in net income, so in many ways, bad debt has characteristics of both an expense and a loss account.




Where Is Bad Debt Expense Reported?
Bad debt expense is reported within the selling, general, and administrative expense section of the income statement. However, the entries to record this bad debt expense may be spread throughout a set of financial statements. The allowance for doubtful accounts resides on the balance sheet as a contra asset. Meanwhile, any bad debts that are directly written off reduce the accounts receivable balance on the balance sheet.


   The Bottom Line  

Bad debt expense is a natural part of any business that extends credit to its customers. Because a small portion of customers will likely end up not being able to pay their bills, a portion of sales or accounts receivable must be ear-marked as bad debt. This small balance is most often estimated and accrued using an allowance account that reduces accounts receivable, though a direct write-off method (which is not allowed under GAAP) may also be used.
What Is a Bag Holder?  

A bag holder is an informal term used to describe an investor who holds a position in a security that decreases in value until it descends into worthlessness. In most cases, the bag holder stubbornly retains their holding for an extended period, during which time the value of the investment goes to zero.





Key Takeaways

A bag holder is slang for an investor who holds onto poorly-performing investments, hoping they will rebound when chances are that they will not.There are psychological motivations behind bag-holding behavior: namely, investors tend to fixate on remedying losses, more than they focus on realizing gains.Bag holders tend to lose money by being the last owners of a failing investment.


   Understanding Bag Holders  

According to the website Urban Dictionary, the term “bag holder” hails from the Great Depression, where people on soup lines held potato bags filled with their only possessions. Since then, the term has emerged as part of modern-day investment lexicon. A blogger who writes on the subject of penny stock investing once quipped about starting a support group called “Bag Holders Anonymous.”



A bag holder refers to an investor who symbolically holds a “bag of stock” that has become worthless over time. Suppose an investor purchases 100 shares of a newly public technology start-up. Although the share price preliminarily rises during the initial public offering (IPO), it quickly starts dropping after analysts begin questioning the veracity of the business model.



Subsequent poor earnings reports signal that the company is struggling, and the stock price consequently plummets further. An investor who is determined to hang onto the stock, despite this ominous sequence of events, is a bag holder.






Bag holders often succumb to the disposition effect or sunk cost fallacy, which causes them to cling to their positions for irrationally long periods.


   Loss Aversion and the Disposition Effect  

There are several reasons why an investor might hold on to underperforming securities. For one, the investor may entirely neglect their portfolio, and only be unaware of a stock’s declining value.



It is more likely that an investor will hold onto a position because selling it means acknowledging a poor investment decision in the first place. And then, there is the phenomenon known as the disposition effect, where investors tend to prematurely sell shares of a security whose price increases, while stubbornly retaining investments that drop in value. Simply stated, investors psychologically hate losing more than they enjoy winning, so they consequently cling to the hope that their losing positions will bounce back.



This phenomenon relates to the prospect theory, where individuals make decisions based on perceived gains, rather than perceived losses. This theory is illustrated by the example that people prefer to receive $50, rather than be given $100 and lose half of that amount, even though both cases ultimately net them $50.



In another example, individuals decline to work overtime hours because they may incur higher taxes. Although they eventually stand to gain, the outgoing funds loom larger in their minds.


   Sunk Cost Fallacy  

The sunk cost fallacy is another reason why an investor may become a bag holder. Sunk costs are unrecoverable expenses that have already occurred.



Suppose an investor purchased 100 shares of stock at $10 per share, in a transaction valued at $1,000. If the stock falls to $3 per share, the market value of the holding is now just $300. Therefore, the $700 loss is considered a sunk cost. Many investors are tempted to wait until the stock slingshots back up to $1,000 to recoup their investment, but the losses have already become a sunk cost and should be considered permanent.



Finally, many investors hold on to a stock for too long because the drop in value is an unrealized loss that is not reflected in their actual accounting until the sale is complete. This holding on essentially delays the inevitable from happening.


   Special Considerations  

Practically speaking, there are a few ways of determining whether a stock is a likely bag holder candidate. For example, if a company is cyclical, where its share price tends to fluctuate along with disruptions in the economy, then there is a decent chance that riding out rough patches may result in a share price turnaround.



But if a company’s fundamentals are crippled, the share price may never recover. Consequently, a stock’s sector may signal its chances for outperforming, in the long run.
What Is a Bail Bond?  

A bail bond is an agreement by a criminal defendant to appear for trial or pay a sum of money set by the court. The bail bond is co-signed by a bail bondsman, who charges the defendant a fee in return for guaranteeing the payment.



The bail bond is a type of surety bond.



The commercial bail bond system exists only in the United States and the Philippines. In other countries, bail may entail a set of restrictions and conditions placed on criminal defendants in return for their release until their trial dates.





Key Takeaways

A bail bond co-signed by a bail bondsmen is posted by a defendant in lieu of full payment of the bail set by the court.The bail bond serves as surety that the defendant will appear for trial.Judges typically have wide latitude in setting bail amounts.Bail bondsmen generally charge 10% of the bail amount up front in return for their service and may charge additional fees. Some states have put a cap of 8% on the amount charged.The bail system is widely viewed as discriminatory to low-income defendants and contributing to the mass incarceration of young Black men.


   How a Bail Bond Works  

A person who is charged with a crime is typically given a bail hearing before a judge. The amount of the bail is at the judge’s discretion. A judge may deny bail altogether or set it at an astronomical level if the defendant is charged with a violent crime or appears likely to be a flight risk.



Judges generally have wide latitude in setting bail amounts, and typical amounts vary by jurisdiction. A defendant charged with a nonviolent misdemeanor could see bail set at $500. Felony crime charges have correspondingly high bail, with $20,000 or more not uncommon.






The commercial bail bond system exists only in the United States and the Philippines.



Once the amount of the bail is set, the defendant’s choices are to:



Remain in jail until the charges are resolved at trialArrange for a bail bondPay the bail amount in full until the case is resolved



In the last instance, courts in some jurisdictions accept title to a home or other collateral of value in lieu of cash.



Bail bondsmen, also called bail bond agents, provide written agreements to criminal courts to pay the bail in full if the defendants whose appearances they guarantee fail to appear on their trial dates.



Bail bondsmen generally charge 10% of the bail amount up front in return for their service and may charge additional fees. Some states have put a cap of 8% on the amount charged.



The agent may also require a statement of creditworthiness or may demand that the defendant turn over collateral in the form of property or securities. Bail bondsmen generally accept most property of value, including cars, jewelry, and houses as well as stocks and bonds.



Once the bail or bail bond is delivered, the defendant is released until trial.


   Disadvantages of the Bail Bond System  

The bail bond system has become part of the larger debate over mass incarceration, especially of young Black men in the U.S.



The bail bond system is considered by many even in the legal profession to be discriminatory, as it requires low-income defendants to stay in jail or scrape together a 10% cash fee and the rest of the bail in collateral—even before they stand trial for any crime. The Prison Policy Initiative reports that about 536,000 people are being held in jails in the U.S. because they cannot afford bail or a bail bondsman’s services.



Four states—Illinois, Kentucky, Oregon, and Wisconsin—have outlawed bail bondsmen and instead require a 10% deposit on the bail amount to be lodged with the court. In 2018, California voted to eliminate cash bail requirements from its court system.


   Bail Bond Example  

Suppose that New York resident Melissa has broken the law, and the court has set her bail at $25,000. Although Melissa doesn’t want to stay in jail while her court case is being reviewed, she doesn’t have the $25,000 in cash. As such, Melissa decides to reach out to a bail bondsman to post a bail bond.



In return for their services, the bondsman is paid 10% of the bond, or $2,500. For the remaining $22,500, the bondsman secures an equivalent amount in collateral from Melissa or someone in her family. Melissa complies with the court’s requirements and shows up to her court dates, so she receives the $22,500 in collateral back at the end of the trial, $2,500 less than what she would have received had she paid the bail herself.




What can be used as collateral for a bail bond?
Bail bondsmen accept various forms of collateral, including real estate, cars, credit cards, stocks, bonds, and jewelry.




What happens if I cannot post bail?
Unfortunately, if you are unable to pose bail, you will likely remain in jail until after your case is resolved.




Will I get my bail money back?
That depends. In New York, for example, the bail money will be returned at the end of your case if you make all of your court appearances. If you are found not guilty or if your case is dismissed, you will get 100% of the bail money back. However, if you are convicted, it will be returned less a 3% fee. Additionally, you must make all of your court appearances or else you may forfeit your bail.
What Is a Bail-In?  

A bail-in provides relief to a financial institution on the brink of failure by requiring the cancellation of debts owed to creditors and depositors. A bail-in is the opposite of a bailout, which involves the rescue of a financial institution by external parties, typically governments, using taxpayers’ money for funding.



Bailouts help to prevent creditors from taking on losses, while bail-ins mandate creditors to take losses.





Key Takeaways

A bail-in helps a financial institution on the brink of failure by requiring the cancellation of debts owed to creditors and depositors.Bail-ins and bailouts are both resolution schemes used in distressed situations.Bailouts help to keep creditors from losses while bail-ins mandate that creditors take losses.Bail-ins have been considered across the globe to help mitigate the burden on taxpayers as a result of bank bailouts.


   Understanding Bail-In  

Bail-ins and bailouts arise out of necessity rather than choice. Both offer options for helping institutions in a crisis. Bailouts were a powerful tool in the 2008 Financial Crisis, but bail-ins have their place as well.



Investors and deposit-holders in a troubled financial institution would prefer to keep the organization solvent rather than face the alternative of losing the full value of their investments or deposits in a crisis. Governments also would prefer not to let a financial institution fail because large-scale bankruptcy could increase the likelihood of systemic problems for the market. These risks are why bailouts were used in the 2008 Financial Crisis, and the concept of "too big to fail" led to widespread reform.


   Requirements for a Bail-In  

While most investors are familiar with bailouts and their uses, bail-ins are also a stratagem of economists. Europe has incorporated them to solve many of its greatest challenges. The Bank of International Settlement (BIS) has also spoken openly about how bail-ins can be used with a focus on integrations in the European Union. In these scenarios, bail-ins can be used in cases wherein a full government bailout is unlikely.



Typically, bail-ins are instituted for one of three reasons: 



A financial institution's collapse is not likely to create a systemic problem and lacks "too big to fail" consequences.
The government does not possess the financial resources necessary for a bailout.
The resolution framework requires that a bail-in be used to mitigate the number of taxpayers’ funds allocated.



Depositors in the U.S. are protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insures each bank account for up to $250,000. In a bail-in scenario, financial institutions would only use the amount of deposits that are in excess of a customer's 250,000 balance.


   Real-World Examples of Bail-In  

Cyprus and European Union resolutions provide two examples of bail-ins in action.


  The Cyprus Experiment  

While the public became familiar with the subject of bailouts in the aftermath of the Great Recession of 2008, bail-ins attracted attention in 2013 after government officials resorted to the strategy in Cyprus. As discussed in The National Herald, the consequences were that uninsured depositors (defined in the European Union as people with deposits larger than 100,000 euros) in the Bank of Cyprus lost a substantial portion of their deposits.



In return, the depositors received bank stock. However, the value of these stocks did not equate to most depositors’ losses.


  European Union  

In 2018, the European Union began looking at more broadly incorporating bail-ins into its resolution framework. In a speech at the IADI-ERC International Conference, Fernando Restoy from the Bank for International Settlements discussed the bail-in plans. In the European Union, a new resolution framework is being considered that would potentially incorporate both bail-ins and bailouts. Bail-ins would be involved in the first phase of a resolution, requiring a specified amount of funds to be written off before bailout funds would become available.
What Is A Bailout?  

A bailout is when a business, an individual, or a government provides money and/or resources (also known as a capital injection) to a failing company. These actions help to prevent the consequences of that business's potential downfall which may include bankruptcy and default on its financial obligations.



Businesses and governments may receive a bailout which may take the form of a loan, the purchasing of bonds, stocks or cash infusions, and may require the recused party to reimburse the support, depending upon the terms.





Key Takeaways

A bailout is the injection of money into a business or organization that would otherwise face imminent collapse.Bailouts can be in the form of loans, bonds, stocks, or cash.Some loans require reimbursement—either with or without interest payments.Bailouts typically go to companies or industries which directly impact the strength of the overall economy, rather than just one particular sector or industry.


   Bailout Explained  

Bailouts are typically only for companies or industries whose bankruptcies may have a severe adverse impact on the economy, not just a particular market sector.



For example, a company that has a considerable workforce may receive a bailout because the economy could not sustain the substantial jump in unemployment that would occur if the business failed. Often, other companies will step in and acquire the failing business, known as a bailout takeover.



Allowing a company to fail can have significant consequences, both for the company itself and for the wider economy - as in the case of contagion. Below are some other reasons why letting a company fail may not always be the best option, and why bailouts may be warranted:



Job losses: If a company fails, it may result in significant job losses, which can have ripple effects throughout the economy. Unemployment can lead to reduced consumer spending, decreased tax revenue, and a higher burden on social safety net programs.Economic instability: When a large company fails, it can cause economic instability, particularly if it has significant ties to other companies or industries. This can lead to a domino effect, with other companies failing and causing even more economic damage.Loss of investor confidence: Allowing a company to fail can erode investor confidence and lead to a wider loss of trust in the financial system and stock market at large. This can make it more difficult for other companies to raise capital, potentially leading to a downward spiral in the economy.Legal complications: The process of allowing a company to fail can be complicated and messy, particularly if the company has many outstanding debts or complex legal obligations. This can result in lengthy legal proceedings that can be costly and time-consuming.



Overall, while allowing a company to fail may be a necessary and unavoidable outcome in some cases, it is generally seen as a last resort and is often avoided through bailouts or other forms of financial support.


   Examples of Bailouts  

The U.S. government has a long history of bailouts going back to the Panic of 1792. Since that time, the government has assisted financial institutions during the 1989 savings and loan bailout, rescued insurance giant American International Group (AIG), funded the government-sponsored home lenders Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and stabilized banks during the 2008 "too big to fail" bailout, officially known as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). Further, the financial industry is not the only one to receive rescue funds throughout the years. Lockheed Aircraft Corporation (LMT), Chrysler, General Motors (GM), and the airline industry also received government and other bailout support.



In 2010, Ireland bailed out the Anglo-Irish Bank Corporation to the tune of €29.3 billion. Greece received European Union (EU) bailouts which topped the scale at around €326 billion. However, Greece is not alone in needing outside help to manage debts. Other rescues include South Korea in 1997, Indonesia in 1999, Brazil in 1998, 2001, and 2002, and Argentina in 2000 and 2001.



Also, it is essential to understand, many of the businesses which receive rescue funding will eventually go on to pay back the loans. Chrysler and GM repaid their Treasury obligations, as did AIG. However, AIG also received aid in ways other than merely financial, which is harder to track.



As you can see, bailouts take many shapes and forms. Also, with each new bailout, the record books are reopened, and a new biggest recipient award is updated. Consider some of these other historical financial rescues.






During the Panic of 1792, debt from the Revolutionary War led the government to bail out the 13 United States.


  Financial Industry Bailout  

The U.S. government offered one of the most massive bailouts in history in 2008 in the wake of the global financial crisis. The rescue targeted the largest financial institutions in the world who experienced severe losses from the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and the resulting credit crisis. Banks, which had been providing an increasing number of mortgages to borrowers with low credit scores, experienced massive loan losses as many people defaulted on their mortgages.



Financial institutions such as Countrywide, Lehman Brothers, and Bear Stearns failed, and the government responded with a massive assistance package. On Oct. 3, 2008, President George W. Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which led to the creation of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). TARP allowed for the United States Department of the Treasury to spend up to $700 billion to purchase toxic assets from the balance sheets of dozens of financial institutions. By its end, TARP disbursed over $443 billion to financial institutions. This figure represents the biggest bailout in financial history to date.






Bear Stearns, which became one of the largest investment banks with $2 billion in profits in 2006, was acquired by JP Morgan Chase in 2008.


  Auto Industry Bailout  

Automakers such as Chrysler and General Motors (GM) were also knocked down during the 2008 financial crisis. The automakers sought a taxpayer bailout as well, arguing that, without one, they would not be able to stay solvent.



Automakers were under pressure as slumping sales plunged amid the dual impacts of surging gas prices and an inability for many consumers to get auto loans. More specifically, the high prices at the pump caused sales of the manufacturers' SUVs and larger vehicles to plummet. Simultaneously, the public found it difficult to get financing, including auto loans, during the financial crisis as banks tightened their lending requirements, further hampering auto sales.



While intended for financial companies, the two automakers ended up drawing roughly $63.5 billion from TARP to stay afloat. In June 2009, Chrysler, now Fiat-Chrysler (FCAU), and GM emerged from bankruptcy and remain among the larger auto producers today.



As of April 2021, the U.S. Treasury has recouped $377 billion of the $443 billion it dispersed, and GM and Chrysler paid back their TARP loans years ahead of schedule. The U.S. Treasury ultimately wrote off approximately $66 billion, including stock losses.




Why Bailout a Company?
A company may need a bailout if it is facing severe financial difficulties that threaten its survival, such as mounting debts, declining revenue, or a sudden downturn in the market. A bailout can provide the company with the necessary funds to continue operating, restructure its operations, and pay off its debts. Usually, a company would be bailed out only if allowing it to fail would have significant consequences for the wider economy.The benefits of a bailout are that it can prevent the collapse of a company or organization and its industry, preserve jobs, and maintain economic stability. This is especially true if a company's collapse will have ripple effects that can bring about even more corporate failures.




What Are the Risks of Bailouts?
The risks of a bailout include the possibility of moral hazard, where companies may become reckless and take on too much risk knowing that they will be bailed out if they do fail. Another risk is the cost to taxpayers or other investors who may have to foot the bill for the bailout without seeing much upside.




What Are the Terms of a Bailout?
The terms of a bailout will vary on a case-by-case basis; however, there will usually be set conditions or requirements for receiving a bailout, such as a restructuring plan or changes to the company's management and operations. Bailouts may also come with certain strings attached, such as limitations on executive compensation, debt limits, or increased oversight and accountability measures. These conditions are intended to ensure that the company is able to become financially stable and avoid the need for future bailouts.


   The Bottom Line  

A bailout occurs when a third party - usually a government or government agency - steps in to save a company or companies by providing them with capital, credit, and other forms of support. A bailout is usually initiated when the consequences of allowing the company or companies to fail would lead to contagion and create even greater systemic risk. In addition to the government, other corporations, private individuals, or non-profit organizations may also get involved. When a company accepts a bailout, it will often see its management team replaced and its debts restructured. The company may also be put up for sale. As a result, existing shareholders may not always be saved by a bailout.
What Is Bait and Switch?  

Bait and switch is a morally suspect sales tactic that lures customers in with specific claims about the quality or low prices on items that turn out to be unavailable in order to upsell them on a similar, pricier item.



It is considered a form of retail sales fraud, though it takes place in other contexts. While many countries have laws against using bait and switch tactics, not all occurrences constitute fraud.





Key Takeaways

Bait and switch occurs when a prospective buyer is enticed by an advertised deal that seems attractive.However, the advertised deal does not exist or is inferior in terms of quality or specifications, where the buyer is then presented with an upsell.The practice is considered unethical, and in many jurisdictions is illegal.It may nonetheless be difficult to prove a bait and switch scam, so it is up to consumers to be vigilant.Red flags may include too-good-to-be-true deals, claims of limited quantity available, and overly-complicated fine print or disclaimers.


   Understanding Bait and Switch  

The "bait" in a bait and switch can be an advertised physical product or service that has a notably attractive price or terms. It can also take the form of a teaser interest rate, in the case of a mortgage, loan, or investment product. Once a customer comes into the store or office to inquire about the advertised price or rate, the advertiser will attempt to sell the customer a more expensive product, which constitutes the "switch."



Bait-and-switch tactics, as a form of false advertising, may be subject to lawsuits in many countries, including the U.S., England, and Canada. However, no matter how aggressive the advertiser is in attempting to upsell a potential customer to a more expensive product if they can sell the advertised teaser product, there is no course of action for the consumer.



It is perfectly legal in the U.S. for a business to advertise a teaser item that is stocked in a limited amount (a loss leader, for example) as long as they also advertise that a limited number are available and offer a rain check if the item sells out.


  Bait and Switch Tactics  

While relatively uncommon, the bait-and-switch tactic has gained notoriety in the mortgage market as a potentially unscrupulous marketing tactic meant to drive business. In a mortgage bait and switch, an agent or company will post exceedingly low mortgage rates, knowing full well that the vast majority of applicants will be unable to qualify for these teaser rates. Once customers begin to come into the office to inquire about the low rate, the agent will proceed to offer them the higher rates they are more likely to qualify for, thus earning a greater commission.



A similar strategy is seen in auto purchase financing, in which buyers are lured by the possibility of a car loan with a rate as low as 0%. In reality, very few people (if any) will qualify for such a rate.



Bait-and-switch-like tactics are common in other endeavors, as well.



In real estate, some unscrupulous brokers may advertise a great property at a too-good-to-be-true price to attract potential buyers. Once they are on board, the property in question is no longer available.In a study by the Society for Conservation Biology, it has been found that about 40% of fish sold as one species (and priced that way) is another type of fish.Hotels offer low teaser rates to attract guests who are later hit with hidden resort fees or other unexpected, minimally disclosed fees.Headhunters may post attractive yet fake jobs in an attempt to collect resumes.


    How to Notice and Avoid Bait and Switch Scams  

Bait and switch scams can be difficult to notice in advance, but there are some ways to minimize becoming a victim. First, if something looks or sounds to good to be true it is a red flag. An image of a brand new car for sale or a luxury apartment for rent but with rock-bottom prices attached are probably misleading. If a seller comments that a product is in limited supply or out of stock, it can be another warning that you aren't going to get what's being offered. Confusing fine print or other terms and conditions can also be a sign of trouble.



In general, if a seller is reluctant or unwilling to disclose information if you ask (e.g., to send more pictures of the product, specifications, details, etc.) it could be because they do not actually have that product around. Thus, one way to avoid a bait and switch is to ask for more information and more photographs (if online). Also, be sure to get an offer of the deal in writing so that you can prove that you thought you were getting one thing and not the other. Always read the terms and conditions and fine print to see if anything strikes you as misleading.


   How to Prove a Bait and Switch  

Bait and switch tactics are often considered to be a type of fraud, and therefore is illegal. Bait and switch scams can fall under a number of violations, from breach of contract to false advertising. A “bait and switch” is also a potential violation of the Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act or Section 5 of the FTC Act. Ultimately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) is responsible for monitoring and enforcing laws that protect consumers from false advertising and fraudulent acts like bait and switch tactics. However, sellers can also minimize their exposure to such accusations by putting a legal disclaimer on their marketing materials.



Proving a bait and switch case in court can be difficult, and therefore it is often best to be vigilant as a consumer. For instance, to prosecute a false advertising claim, there are five criteria that must be met under Section 43 of the Lanham Act:



The plaintiff must show that the defendant made false or misleading statements about a service or product;That the defendant engaged in actual deception or at least intended to deceive the majority of targeted consumers;The deception itself is substantial enough that it is more than likely that it will influence a consumer to purchase the service or product;The advertised service or product being offered are items that are sold in interstate commerce; andA probability that the defendant’s conduct will likely result in harm to the plaintiff.





$141 million

TurboTax software maker intuit was fined $141 million in a settlement over bait-and-switch tactics related to its "free-to-file" tax service. Intuit was accused of misleading consumers into paying for online tax preparation services instead of using the company’s free service offerings.




What Is Bait and Switch in Business?
A “bait and switch” is a scam to mislead buyers, whereby a seller advertises an appealing but ingenuine offer to sell a product or service that the seller does not actually intend to sell. Instead, the seller offers a sub-par, defective, or unwanted alternative.




What Is Bait and Switch in Politics?
In politics, "bait and switch" can refer to a number of things. Politicians may be accused of a bait and switch if they campaign on one platform but then pursue a different agenda. It may also refer to so-called "caption bills," which are small pieces of legislation with generic titles, but whose wording actually makes substantial changes to the law. The bait is the title and generic nature of the packaging; the switch is the legislative content.




What Is the Penalty for Bait and Switch Advertising?
The penalty will depend on the severity of the case and under which laws the case has been prosecuted. If it is a violation of false advertising, the bait and switcher may be fined up to $10,000 and/or up to one year in prison per offense, plus legal fees and damages.
What Is the Balance of Payments (BOP)?  

The balance of payments (BOP), also known as the balance of international payments, is a statement of all transactions made between entities in one country and the rest of the world over a defined period, such as a quarter or a year. It summarizes all transactions that a country's individuals, companies, and government bodies complete with individuals, companies, and government bodies outside the country.





Key Takeaways

The balance of payments includes both the current account and capital account.The current account includes a nation's net trade in goods and services, its net earnings on cross-border investments, and its net transfer payments.The capital account consists of a nation's transactions in financial instruments and central bank reserves.The sum of all transactions recorded in the balance of payments should be zero; however, exchange rate fluctuations and differences in accounting practices may hinder this in practice.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding the Balance of Payments (BOP)  

The balance of payments (BOP) transactions consist of imports and exports of goods, services, and capital, as well as transfer payments, such as foreign aid and remittances. A country's balance of payments and its net international investment position together constitute its international accounts.



The balance of payments divides transactions into two accounts: the current account and the capital account. Sometimes the capital account is called the financial account, with a separate, usually very small, capital account listed separately. The current account includes transactions in goods, services, investment income, and current transfers.



The capital account, broadly defined, includes transactions in financial instruments and central bank reserves. Narrowly defined, it includes only transactions in financial instruments. The current account is included in calculations of national output, while the capital account is not. 



If a country exports an item (a current account transaction), it effectively imports foreign capital when that item is paid for (a capital account transaction). If a country cannot fund its imports through exports of capital, it must do so by running down its reserves. This situation is often referred to as a balance of payments deficit, using the narrow definition of the capital account that excludes central bank reserves. In reality, however, the broadly defined balance of payments must add up to zero by definition.



In practice, statistical discrepancies arise due to the difficulty of accurately counting every transaction between an economy and the rest of the world, including discrepancies caused by foreign currency translations. 






The sum of all transactions recorded in the balance of payments must be zero, as long as the capital account is defined broadly. The reason is that every credit appearing in the current account has a corresponding debit in the capital account, and vice-versa.


   History of Balance of Payments (BOP)  

Before the 19th century, international transactions were denominated in gold, providing little flexibility for countries experiencing trade deficits. Growth was low, so stimulating a trade surplus was the primary method of strengthening a nation's financial position. National economies were not well integrated, however, so steep trade imbalances rarely provoked crises. The industrial revolution increased international economic integration, and balance of payment crises began to occur more frequently.



The Great Depression led countries to abandon the gold standard and engage in competitive devaluation of their currencies, but the Bretton Woods system that prevailed from the end of World War II until the 1970s introduced a gold-convertible dollar with fixed exchange rates to other currencies.



As the U.S. money supply increased and its trade deficit deepened, however, the government became unable to fully redeem foreign central banks' dollar reserves for gold, and the system was abandoned.



Since the Nixon shock—as the end of the dollar's convertibility to gold is known—currencies have floated freely, meaning that a country experiencing a trade deficit can artificially depress its currency—by hoarding foreign reserves, for example—making its products more attractive and increasing its exports. Due to the increased mobility of capital across borders, balance-of-payments crises sometimes occur, causing sharp currency devaluations such as the ones that struck in Southeast Asian countries in 1998.



During the Great Recession, several countries embarked on competitive devaluation of their currencies to try to boost their exports. All of the world’s major central banks responded to the financial crisis at the time by executing dramatically expansionary monetary policy. This led to other nations’ currencies, especially in emerging markets, appreciating against the U.S. dollar and other major currencies.



Many of those nations responded by further loosening the reins on their monetary policy to support their exports, especially those whose exports were under pressure from stagnant global demand during the Great Recession.


   Special Considerations  

Balance of payments and international investment position data are critical in formulating national and international economic policy. Certain aspects of the balance of payments data, such as payment imbalances and foreign direct investment, are key issues that a nation's policymakers seek to address,



While a nation's balance of payments necessarily zeroes out the current and capital accounts, imbalances can and do appear between different countries' current accounts. The U.S. had the world's largest current account deficit in 2020, at $616 billion. China had the world's largest surplus, at $274 billion.







Economic policies are often targeted at specific objectives that, in turn, impact the balance of payments. For example, one country might adopt policies specifically designed to attract foreign investment in a particular sector, while another might attempt to keep its currency at an artificially low level to stimulate exports and build up its currency reserves. The impact of these policies is ultimately captured in the balance of payments data.




What Is a Balance of Payments (BOP) Example?
Funds entering a country from a foreign source are booked as credit and recorded in the BOP. Outflows from a country are recorded as debits in the BOP. For example, say Japan exports 100 cars to the U.S. Japan books the export of the 100 cars as a debit in the BOP, while the U.S. books the imports as a credit in the BOP.




What Is the Formula for Balance of Payments?
The formula for calculating the balance of payments is current account + capital account + financial account + balancing item = 0.




What Is BOP and Its Components?
The BOP is all transactions between entities in one country and the rest of the world over some time. There are three key BOP components, including the current account, capital account, and financial account. The current account must balance the capital and financial accounts.
What Is the Balance of Trade (BOT)?  

Balance of trade (BOT) is the difference between the value of a country's exports and the value of a country's imports for a given period. Balance of trade is the largest component of a country's balance of payments (BOP). Sometimes the balance of trade between a country's goods and the balance of trade between its services are distinguished as two separate figures.



The balance of trade is also referred to as the trade balance, the international trade balance, the commercial balance, or the net exports.





Key Takeaways

Balance of trade (BOT) is the difference between the value of a country's imports and exports for a given period and is the largest component of a country's balance of payments (BOP).A country that imports more goods and services than it exports in terms of value has a trade deficit while a country that exports more goods and services than it imports has a trade surplus.Viewed alone, a favorable balance of trade is not sufficient to gauge the health of an economy. It is important to consider the balance of trade with respect to other economic indicators, business cycles, and other indicators.The United States regularly runs a trade deficit, while China usually runs a large trade surplus. 












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding the Balance of Trade (BOT)  

The formula for calculating the BOT can be simplified as the total value of exports minus the total value of its imports. Economists use the BOT to measure the relative strength of a country's economy.



A country that imports more goods and services than it exports in terms of value has a trade deficit or a negative trade balance. Conversely, a country that exports more goods and services than it imports has a trade surplus or a positive trade balance.



A positive balance of trade indicates that a country's producers have an active foreign market. After producing enough goods to satisfy local demand, there is enough demand from customers abroad to keep local producers busy. A negative balance of trade means that currency flows outwards to pay for exports, indicating that the country may be overly reliant on foreign goods.


   Calculating the Balance of Trade  

A country's balance of trade is calculated by the following formula:


















BOT


=


Exports


−


Imports







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{BOT}=\textbf{Exports}-\textbf{Imports}\end{aligned}


​BOT=Exports−Imports​



Where exports represents the currency value of all goods sold to foreign countries, as well as other outflows due to remittances, foreign aid, donations or loan repayments. Imports represents the dollar value of all foreign goods imported from abroad, as well as incoming remittances, donations, and aid.



Debit items include imports, foreign aid, domestic spending abroad, and domestic investments abroad. Credit items include exports, foreign spending in the domestic economy, and foreign investments in the domestic economy. By subtracting the credit items from the debit items, economists arrive at a trade deficit or trade surplus for a given country over the period of a month, a quarter, or a year.


  Example of How to Calculate the BOT  

Here's an example of how to calculate the balance of trade:



Let's say that a country's exports of goods in a given year are worth $100 million, and its imports of goods are worth $80 million. To calculate the balance of trade, you would subtract the value of the imports from the value of the exports:



Balance of trade = Exports - Imports= $100 million - $80 million= $20 million



In this example, the balance of trade is $20 million, which means that the country has a trade surplus of +$20 million.



It's important to note that the balance of trade is typically measured in the currency of the country whose trade balance is being calculated. For example, if the country in the above example is the United States, the balance of trade would be measured in US dollars. If the country is Japan, it would be measured in Japanese yen, and so on.


   Examples of Balance of Trade  

The United States imported $239 billion in goods and services in August 2020 but exported only $171.9 billion in goods and services to other countries. So, in August, the United States had a trade balance of -$67.1 billion, or a $67.1 billion trade deficit.



A trade deficit is not a recent occurrence in the United States. In fact, the country has had a persistent trade deficit since the 1970s. Throughout most of the 19th century, the country also had a trade deficit (between 1800 and 1870, the United States ran a trade deficit for all but three years).



Conversely, China's trade surplus has increased even as the pandemic has reduced global trade. In Aug. 2022, China exported goods worth $314.9 billion and imported goods worth $231.7 billion. This generated a trade surplus of $79.4 billion for that month, a drop from $101 billion the preceding month.


   Balance of Trade: Favorable vs. Unfavorable  

A favorable balance of trade, also known as a trade surplus, occurs when a country exports more goods than it imports. This means that the country is earning more from its exports than it is spending on its imports, and it is generally seen as a sign of economic strength. A trade surplus can be a result of a country having a competitive advantage in the production and export of certain goods, or it can be the result of a country's currency being relatively undervalued, making its exports cheaper for foreign buyers.



On the other hand, an unfavorable balance of trade, also known as a trade deficit, occurs when a country imports more goods than it exports. This means that the country is spending more on imports than it is earning from exports, and it can be a cause for concern if it persists over a long period of time. A trade deficit can be the result of a country having a comparative disadvantage in the production of certain goods, or it can be the result of a country's currency being relatively overvalued, making its imports cheaper and its exports more expensive.



In general, a favorable balance of trade is seen as a positive sign for a country's economy, while an unfavorable balance of trade is seen as a negative sign. However, it's important to note that a trade deficit or surplus is not always a sign of economic strength or weakness, and other factors such as a country's overall economic growth, employment rate, and inflation rate should also be taken into account.


   Special Considerations  

A country with a large trade deficit borrows money to pay for its goods and services, while a country with a large trade surplus lends money to deficit countries. In some cases, the trade balance may correlate to a country's political and economic stability because it reflects the amount of foreign investment in that country.



A trade surplus or deficit is not always a viable indicator of an economy's health, and it must be considered in the context of the business cycle and other economic indicators. For example, in a recession, countries prefer to export more to create jobs and demand in the economy. In times of economic expansion, countries prefer to import more to promote price competition, which limits inflation.


   Balance of Trade vs. Balance of Payments  

The balance of trade is the difference between a country's exports and imports of goods, while the balance of payments is a record of all international economic transactions made by a country's residents, including trade in goods and services, as well as financial capital and financial transfers. The balance of trade is a part of the balance of payments and is represented in the current account, which also includes income from investments and transfers such as foreign aid and gifts. The capital account, which is another part of the balance of payments, includes financial capital and financial transfers.



It's important to note that the balance of trade and the balance of payments are not the same thing, although they are related. The balance of trade measures the flow of goods into and out of a country, while the balance of payments measures all international economic transactions, including trade in goods and services, financial capital, and financial transfers.



A country can have a positive balance of trade (a trade surplus) and a negative balance of payments (a deficit) if it is exporting more goods than it is importing, but it is also losing financial capital or making financial transfers. Conversely, a country can have a negative balance of trade (a trade deficit) and a positive balance of payments (a surplus) if it is importing more goods than it is exporting, but it is also receiving a large amount of financial capital or making financial transfers.




How Do Changes in a Country's Exchange Rate Affect the Balance of Trade?
When the price of one country's currency increases, the cost of its goods and services also increases in the foreign market. For residents of that country, it will become cheaper to import goods, but domestic producers might have trouble selling their goods abroad because of the higher prices. Ultimately, this may result in lower exports and higher imports, causing a trade deficit.




What Is a Favorable Balance of Trade?
A favorable balance of trade occurs when a country's exports exceed the value of its imports. This indicates a positive inflow of money to stimulate local economic activity.




How Can a Country Gain a Favorable Balance of Trade?
Many seek to improve their balance of trade by investing heavily in export-oriented manufacturing or extracting industries. It is also possible to improve the balance of trade by placing tariffs on imported goods, or by devaluing the country's currency.




How Do We Measure Balance of Trade?
The balance of trade is typically measured as the difference between a country's exports and imports of goods. To calculate the balance of trade, you would subtract the value of a country's imports from the value of its exports. If the result is positive, it means that the country has a trade surplus (favorable balance of trade), and if the result is negative, it means that the country has a trade deficit (unfavorable balance of trade).


   The Bottom Line  

The balance of trade is the difference between a country's exports and imports of goods. A positive balance of trade, also known as a trade surplus, occurs when a country exports more goods than it imports. This means that the country is earning more from its exports than it is spending on its imports, and it is generally seen as a sign of economic strength.



On the other hand, a negative balance of trade, also known as a trade deficit, occurs when a country imports more goods than it exports. This means that the country is spending more on imports than it is earning from exports, and it can be a cause for concern if it persists over a long period of time. The balance of trade is an important component of a country's balance of payments, which is a record of all its international economic transactions.



Correction—Feb. 8, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly defined a positive balance of trade and a negative balance of payments. It has been edited to reflect that a positive balance of trade and negative balance of payments occurs when a country is exporting more goods than it is importing.
What Is a Balance Sheet?  

The term balance sheet refers to a financial statement that reports a company's assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity at a specific point in time. Balance sheets provide the basis for computing rates of return for investors and evaluating a company's capital structure.



In short, the balance sheet is a financial statement that provides a snapshot of what a company owns and owes, as well as the amount invested by shareholders. Balance sheets can be used with other important financial statements to conduct fundamental analysis or calculate financial ratios.





Key Takeaways

A balance sheet is a financial statement that reports a company's assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity.The balance sheet is one of the three core financial statements that are used to evaluate a business.It provides a snapshot of a company's finances (what it owns and owes) as of the date of publication.The balance sheet adheres to an equation that equates assets with the sum of liabilities and shareholder equity.Fundamental analysts use balance sheets to calculate financial ratios.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   How Balance Sheets Work  

The balance sheet provides an overview of the state of a company's finances at a moment in time. It cannot give a sense of the trends playing out over a longer period on its own. For this reason, the balance sheet should be compared with those of previous periods.
Investors can get a sense of a company's financial well-being by using a number of ratios that can be derived from a balance sheet, including the debt-to-equity ratio and the acid-test ratio, along with many others. The income statement and statement of cash flows also provide valuable context for assessing a company's finances, as do any notes or addenda in an earnings report that might refer back to the balance sheet.
The balance sheet adheres to the following accounting equation, with assets on one side, and liabilities plus shareholder equity on the other, balance out:






Assets


=


Liabilities


+


Shareholders’ Equity



\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Shareholders' Equity}


Assets=Liabilities+Shareholders’ Equity

This formula is intuitive. That's because a company has to pay for all the things it owns (assets) by either borrowing money (taking on liabilities) or taking it from investors (issuing shareholder equity).
If a company takes out a five-year, $4,000 loan from a bank, its assets (specifically, the cash account) will increase by $4,000. Its liabilities (specifically, the long-term debt account) will also increase by $4,000, balancing the two sides of the equation. If the company takes $8,000 from investors, its assets will increase by that amount, as will its shareholder equity. All revenues the company generates in excess of its expenses will go into the shareholder equity account. These revenues will be balanced on the assets side, appearing as cash, investments, inventory, or other assets.






Balance sheets should also be compared with those of other businesses in the same industry since different industries have unique approaches to financing.


   Special Considerations  

As noted above, you can find information about assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity on a company's balance sheet. The assets should always equal the liabilities and shareholder equity. This means that the balance sheet should always balance, hence the name. If they don't balance, there may be some problems, including incorrect or misplaced data, inventory or exchange rate errors, or miscalculations.



Each category consists of several smaller accounts that break down the specifics of a company's finances. These accounts vary widely by industry, and the same terms can have different implications depending on the nature of the business. But there are a few common components that investors are likely to come across.












 Theresa Chiechi {Copyright} Investopedia, 2019.


   Components of a Balance Sheet  
  Assets  

Accounts within this segment are listed from top to bottom in order of their liquidity. This is the ease with which they can be converted into cash. They are divided into current assets, which can be converted to cash in one year or less; and non-current or long-term assets, which cannot.



Here is the general order of accounts within current assets:



Cash and cash equivalents are the most liquid assets and can include Treasury bills and short-term certificates of deposit, as well as hard currency.
Marketable securities are equity and debt securities for which there is a liquid market.
Accounts receivable (AR) refer to money that customers owe the company. This may include an allowance for doubtful accounts as some customers may not pay what they owe.
Inventory refers to any goods available for sale, valued at the lower of the cost or market price.
Prepaid expenses represent the value that has already been paid for, such as insurance, advertising contracts, or rent.



Long-term assets include the following:



Long-term investments are securities that will not or cannot be liquidated in the next year.
Fixed assets include land, machinery, equipment, buildings, and other durable, generally capital-intensive assets.
Intangible assets include non-physical (but still valuable) assets such as intellectual property and goodwill. These assets are generally only listed on the balance sheet if they are acquired, rather than developed in-house. Their value may thus be wildly understated (by not including a globally recognized logo, for example) or just as wildly overstated.


  Liabilities  

A liability is any money that a company owes to outside parties, from bills it has to pay to suppliers to interest on bonds issued to creditors to rent, utilities and salaries. Current liabilities are due within one year and are listed in order of their due date. Long-term liabilities, on the other hand, are due at any point after one year.



Current liabilities accounts might include:



Current portion of long-term debt is the portion of a long-term debt due within the next 12 months. For example, if a company has a 10 years left on a loan to pay for its warehouse, 1 year is a current liability and 9 years is a long-term liability.
Interest payable is accumulated interest owed, often due as part of a past-due obligation such as late remittance on property taxes.
Wages payable is salaries, wages, and benefits to employees, often for the most recent pay period.
Customer prepayments is money received by a customer before the service has been provided or product delivered. The company has an obligation to (a) provide that good or service or (b) return the customer's money.
Dividends payable is dividends that have been authorized for payment but have not yet been issued.
Earned and unearned premiums is similar to prepayments in that a company has received money upfront, has not yet executed on their portion of an agreement, and must return unearned cash if they fail to execute.
Accounts payable is often the most common current liability. Accounts payable is debt obligations on invoices processed as part of the operation of a business that are often due within 30 days of receipt.



Long-term liabilities can include:



Long-term debt includes any interest and principal on bonds issued
Pension fund liability refers to the money a company is required to pay into its employees' retirement accounts
Deferred tax liability is the amount of taxes that accrued but will not be paid for another year. Besides timing, this figure reconciles differences between requirements for financial reporting and the way tax is assessed, such as depreciation calculations.



Some liabilities are considered off the balance sheet, meaning they do not appear on the balance sheet.


  Shareholder Equity  

Shareholder equity is the money attributable to the owners of a business or its shareholders. It is also known as net assets since it is equivalent to the total assets of a company minus its liabilities or the debt it owes to non-shareholders.



Retained earnings are the net earnings a company either reinvests in the business or uses to pay off debt. The remaining amount is distributed to shareholders in the form of dividends.



Treasury stock is the stock a company has repurchased. It can be sold at a later date to raise cash or reserved to repel a hostile takeover.



Some companies issue preferred stock, which will be listed separately from common stock under this section. Preferred stock is assigned an arbitrary par value (as is common stock, in some cases) that has no bearing on the market value of the shares. The common stock and preferred stock accounts are calculated by multiplying the par value by the number of shares issued.



Additional paid-in capital or capital surplus represents the amount shareholders have invested in excess of the common or preferred stock accounts, which are based on par value rather than market price. Shareholder equity is not directly related to a company's market capitalization. The latter is based on the current price of a stock, while paid-in capital is the sum of the equity that has been purchased at any price.






Par value is often just a very small amount, such as $0.01.


   Importance of a Balance Sheet  

Regardless of the size of a company or industry in which it operates, there are many benefits of reading, analyzing, and understanding its balance sheet.



First, balance sheets help to determine risk. This financial statement lists everything a company owns and all of its debt. A company will be able to quickly assess whether it has borrowed too much money, whether the assets it owns are not liquid enough, or whether it has enough cash on hand to meet current demands.



Balance sheets are also used to secure capital. A company usually must provide a balance sheet to a lender in order to secure a business loan. A company must also usually provide a balance sheet to private investors when attempting to secure private equity funding. In both cases, the external party wants to assess the financial health of a company, the creditworthiness of the business, and whether the company will be able to repay its short-term debts.



Managers can opt to use financial ratios to measure the liquidity, profitability, solvency, and cadence (turnover) of a company using financial ratios, and some financial ratios need numbers taken from the balance sheet. When analyzed over time or comparatively against competing companies, managers can better understand ways to improve the financial health of a company.



Last, balance sheets can lure and retain talent. Employees usually prefer knowing their jobs are secure and that the company they are working for is in good health. For public companies that must disclose their balance sheet, this requirement gives employees a chance to review how much cash the company has on hand, whether the company is making smart decisions when managing debt, and whether they feel the company's financial health is in line with what they expect from their employer.


   Limitations of a Balance Sheet  

Although the balance sheet is an invaluable piece of information for investors and analysts, there are some drawbacks. Because it is static, many financial ratios draw on data included in both the balance sheet and the more dynamic income statement and statement of cash flows to paint a fuller picture of what's going on with a company's business. For this reason, a balance alone may not paint the full picture of a company's financial health.



A balance sheet is limited due its narrow scope of timing. The financial statement only captures the financial position of a company on a specific day. Looking at a single balance sheet by itself may make it difficult to extract whether a company is performing well. For example, imagine a company reports $1,000,000 of cash on hand at the end of the month. Without context, a comparative point, knowledge of its previous cash balance, and an understanding of industry operating demands, knowing how much cash on hand a company has yields limited value.



Different accounting systems and ways of dealing with depreciation and inventories will also change the figures posted to a balance sheet. Because of this, managers have some ability to game the numbers to look more favorable. Pay attention to the balance sheet's footnotes in order to determine which systems are being used in their accounting and to look out for red flags.



Last, a balance sheet is subject to several areas of professional judgement that may materially impact the report. For example, accounts receivable must be continually assessed for impairment and adjusted to reflect potential uncollectible accounts. Without knowing which receivables a company is likely to actually receive, a company must make estimates and reflect their best guess as part of the balance sheet.


   Example of a Balance Sheet  

The image below is an example of a comparative balance sheet of Apple, Inc. This balance sheet compares the financial position of the company as of September 2020 to the financial position of the company from the year prior.















Apple Balance Sheet.



In this example, Apple's total assets of $323.8 billion is segregated towards the top of the report. This asset section is broken into current assets and non-current assets, and each of these categories is broken into more specific accounts. A brief review of Apple's assets shows that their cash on hand decreased, yet their non-current assets increased.



This balance sheet also reports Apple's liabilities and equity, each with its own section in the lower half of the report. The liabilities section is broken out similarly as the assets section, with current liabilities and non-current liabilities reporting balances by account. The total shareholder's equity section reports common stock value, retained earnings, and accumulated other comprehensive income. Apple's total liabilities increased, total equity decreased, and the combination of the two reconcile to the company's total assets.




Why Is a Balance Sheet Important?
The balance sheet is an essential tool used by executives, investors, analysts, and regulators to understand the current financial health of a business. It is generally used alongside the two other types of financial statements: the income statement and the cash flow statement.Balance sheets allow the user to get an at-a-glance view of the assets and liabilities of the company. The balance sheet can help users answer questions such as whether the company has a positive net worth, whether it has enough cash and short-term assets to cover its obligations, and whether the company is highly indebted relative to its peers.




What Is Included in the Balance Sheet?
The balance sheet includes information about a company’s assets and liabilities. Depending on the company, this might include short-term assets, such as cash and accounts receivable, or long-term assets such as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). Likewise, its liabilities may include short-term obligations such as accounts payable and wages payable, or long-term liabilities such as bank loans and other debt obligations.




Who Prepares the Balance Sheet?
Depending on the company, different parties may be responsible for preparing the balance sheet. For small privately-held businesses, the balance sheet might be prepared by the owner or by a company bookkeeper. For mid-size private firms, they might be prepared internally and then looked over by an external accountant.Public companies, on the other hand, are required to obtain external audits by public accountants, and must also ensure that their books are kept to a much higher standard. The balance sheets and other financial statements of these companies must be prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and must be filed regularly with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).




What Are the Uses of a Balance Sheet?
A balance sheet explains the financial position of a company at a specific point in time. As opposed to an income statement which reports financial information over a period of time, a balance sheet is used to determine the health of a company on a specific day.A bank statement is often used by parties outside of a company to gauge the company's health. Banks, lenders, and other institutions may calculate financial ratios off of the balance sheet balances to gauge how much risk a company carries, how liquid its assets are, and how likely the company will remain solvent.A company can use its balance sheet to craft internal decisions, though the information presented is usually not as helpful as an income statement. A company may look at its balance sheet to measure risk, make sure it has enough cash on hand, and evaluate how it wants to raise more capital (through debt or equity).




What Is the Balance Sheet Formula?
A balance sheet is calculated by balancing a company's assets with its liabilities and equity. The formula is: total assets = total liabilities + total equity.Total assets is calculated as the sum of all short-term, long-term, and other assets. Total liabilities is calculated as the sum of all short-term, long-term and other liabilities. Total equity is calculated as the sum of net income, retained earnings, owner contributions, and share of stock issued.
What Is a Balanced Budget?  

A balanced budget is a situation in financial planning or the budgeting process where total expected revenues are equal to total planned spending. This term is most frequently applied to public sector (government) budgeting. A budget can also be considered balanced in hindsight after a full year's worth of revenues and expenses have been incurred and recorded.





Key Takeaways

A balanced budget occurs when revenues are equal to or greater than total expenses. A budget can be considered balanced after a full year of revenues and expenses have been incurred and recorded.Proponents of a balanced budget argue that budget deficits burden future generations with debt.


   Understanding a Balanced Budget  

The phrase "balanced budget" is commonly used in reference to official government budgets. For example, governments may issue a press release stating that they have a balanced budget for the upcoming fiscal year, or politicians may campaign on a promise to balance the budget once in office.






When revenues exceed expenses there is a budget surplus; when expenses exceed revenues there is a budget deficit. While neither of these is a technically balanced budget, deficits tend to elicit more concern.



The term "budget surplus" is often used in conjunction with a balanced budget. A budget surplus occurs when revenues exceed expenses, and the surplus amount represents the difference between the two. In a business setting, a company can reinvest surpluses back into itself, such as for research and development expenses; pay them out to employees in the form of bonuses; or distribute them to shareholders as dividends.



In a government setting, a budget surplus occurs when tax revenues in a calendar year exceed government expenditures. The United States government has only achieved a budget surplus four times since 1970. It happened during consecutive years from 1998 until 2001.



A budget deficit, by contrast, is the result of expenses eclipsing revenues. Budget deficits necessarily result in rising debt, as funds must be borrowed to meet expenses. For example, the U.S. national debt, which is in excess of $27 trillion as of November 2020, is the result of accumulated budget deficits over many decades.﻿﻿


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Balanced Budget  

Proponents of a balanced budget argue that excessive budget deficits saddle future generations with untenable debt. Just as any household or business must balance its spending against available income over time or risk bankruptcy, a government should strive to maintain some balance between tax revenues and expenditures.



Most economists agree that an excessive public sector debt burden can pose a major systemic risk to an economy. Eventually, taxes must be raised or the money supply artificially increased—thus devaluing the currency—to service this debt. This can result in a crippling tax bill once taxes are eventually raised, excessively high interest rates that crimp business and consumer access to credit, or rampant inflation that may disrupt the entire economy. 



On the other hand, running consistent budget surpluses tends to not be politically popular. While it may be beneficial for governments to sock away surpluses for so-called "rainy day funds" in case of a downturn in tax revenue, the government is generally not expected to operate as a for-profit business.



The existence of surplus government funds tends to lead to demands for either lower taxes or, more often, increased spending since money accumulating in public accounts makes an attractive target for special interest spending. Running a generally balanced budget may help governments to avoid the perils of either deficits or surpluses.



However, some economists feel budget deficits and surpluses serve a valuable purpose, via fiscal policy, enough so that risking the dire effects of excessive debt may be worth the risk, at least in the short run. Keynesian economists insist that deficit spending represents a key tactic in the government's arsenal to fight recessions.



During economic contraction, they argue, demand falls, which leads to gross domestic product (GDP) declines. Deficit spending, Keynesians say, can be used to make up for deficient private demand or to stimulate private sector spending by injecting money into key sectors of the economy.



During good economic times, they argue (though perhaps less forcefully), governments should run budget surpluses to restrain private sector demand driven by excessive optimism. For Keynesians, a balanced budget in effect represents an abdication of the government's duty to use fiscal policy to steer the economy one way or another.
What Is a Balanced Fund?  

A balanced fund is a mutual fund that typically contains a component of stocks and bonds. A mutual fund is a basket of securities in which investors can purchase. Typically, balanced funds stick to a fixed asset allocation of stocks and bonds, such as 70% stocks and 30% bonds. Bonds are debt instruments that usually pay a stable, fixed rate of return.



The investment objective for a balanced mutual fund tends to be a mixture of growth and income, which leads to the balanced nature of the fund. Balanced mutual funds are geared toward investors who are looking for a mixture of safety, income, and modest capital appreciation.





Key Takeaways

Balanced funds are mutual funds that invest money across asset classes, including a mix of low- to medium-risk stocks and bonds.Balanced funds invest with the goal of both income and capital appreciation.Balanced funds can benefit investors with a low risk tolerance, such as retirees, by offering capital appreciation and income. 


   Understanding Balanced Funds  

A balanced fund is a type of hybrid fund, which is an investment fund characterized by its diversification among two or more asset classes. The amounts the fund invests into each asset class usually must remain within a set minimum and maximum value. Another name for a balanced fund is an asset allocation fund.



Balanced fund portfolios do not materially change their asset mix, unlike life-cycle funds, which adjust the holdings to lower the risk as an investor's retirement date approaches. Balanced funds also differ from actively managed funds, which may evolve in response to the investor's changing risk-return appetite or overall investment market conditions.


   Elements of a Balanced Fund Portfolio  

Retirees or investors with low-risk tolerance can utilize balanced funds for healthy growth and supplemental income. The elements of balanced funds include a mixture of stocks and bonds.


  Equity Component  

The equity component helps to prevent erosion of purchasing power and ensure the long-term preservation of retirement nest eggs.



The equity holdings of a balanced fund lean toward large equities such as the ones found in the S&P 500 Index, which contains 500 of the largest publicly traded companies in the United States. Balanced funds may also include dividend-paying companies. Dividends are cash payments made by companies to their shareholders as a reward for owning their stock. Companies that consistently pay dividends over the long term tend to be well-established and profitable.


  Bond Component  

The bond component of a balanced fund serves two purposes.



Creates an income stream
Tempers portfolio volatility, which is the price fluctuations from the equity component



Investment-grade bonds such as AAA corporate debt and U.S. Treasuries provide interest income through semi-annual payments, while large-company stocks offer quarterly dividend payouts to enhance yield. Also, rather than reinvest distributions, retired investors may receive cash to bolster their income from pensions, personal savings, and government subsidies.



While they trade daily, highly graded bonds and Treasuries don't usually experience wild price swings that equities may experience. As a result, the stability of the fixed-interest securities prevents wild jumps in the share price of a balanced mutual fund. Also, debt security prices do not move in lockstep with stocks and can move in the opposite direction. This bond stability provides balanced funds with ballast, further smoothing out its portfolio's investment return over time.






Balanced funds are the same as asset allocation funds.


   Advantages of Balanced Funds  

Because balanced funds rarely have to change their mix of stocks and bonds, they tend to have lower total expense ratios (ERs), which represent the cost of the fund. Moreover, because they automatically spread an investor's money across a variety of types of stocks, market risk is minimized if certain stocks or sectors underperform. Finally, balanced funds allow investors to withdraw money periodically without upsetting the asset allocation.





Pros

Diversified, constantly rebalanced portfolio
Low expense ratios
Less volatility
Low-risk



Cons

Fixed asset allocations
Unsuited for tax-shielding strategies
"The usual suspects" investments
Safe but stodgy returns





   Disadvantages of Balanced Funds  

On the downside, the fund controls the asset allocation, not the investor, which might not match an investor's tax-planning strategy. For example, many investors prefer to keep income-producing securities in tax-advantaged accounts and growth stocks in taxable ones, but you can't separate the two in a balanced fund. Also, investors can't use a bond laddering strategy—buying bonds with staggered maturity dates—to adjust cash flows and repayment of principal according to their financial situation.



The characteristic allocation of a balanced fund—usually 60% equities, 40% bonds—may not always suit an investor's financial goals since needs and preferences can change over time. Some balanced funds play it too safe, avoiding international or outside-the-mainstream markets, which can hobble their returns.


   Real-World Example of a Balanced Fund  

The Vanguard Balanced Index Fund Admiral Shares (VBIAX) has a below-average risk rating from Morningstar with an above-average reward profile. The fund's allocation consists of 60% stocks and 40% bonds. Over the past 10 years—as of April 30, 2022—the fund has returned 8.73% annually. The Vanguard Balanced Index Fund Admiral Shares has an expense ratio of 0.07% and a $3,000 minimum investment amount.
What Is a Balanced Investment Strategy?  

A balanced investment strategy combines asset classes in a portfolio in an attempt to balance risk and return. Typically, balanced portfolios are divided between stocks and bonds, either equally or with a slight tilt, such as 60% in stocks and 40% in bonds. Balanced portfolios may also maintain a small cash or money market component for liquidity purposes.





Key Takeaways

A balanced investment strategy is one that seeks a balance between capital preservation and growth.It is used by investors with moderate risk tolerance and generally consists of a fairly equal mixture of stocks and bonds.Balanced investment strategies sit at the middle of the risk-reward spectrum. More conservative investors can opt for capital preservation strategies, whereas more aggressive investors can opt for growth strategies.


   Understanding a Balanced Investment Strategy  

There are many different ways to put together a portfolio, depending on the preferences and risk tolerance of the investor.



On one end of the spectrum are strategies aimed at capital preservation and current income. These generally consist of safe but low-yielding investments, such as certificates of deposit, investment-grade bonds, money market instruments, and some blue-chip stocks that pay dividends. Such strategies are appropriate for investors concerned with preserving the capital they already have and less concerned with growing that capital.



On the other end of the spectrum are strategies aimed at growth. These more aggressive strategies generally involve a higher weighting of stocks, including small-cap companies. If fixed income instruments are included, they might have lower credit ratings or less security but offer a higher yield, such as in the case of debentures, preferred shares, or higher-yielding corporate bonds. Growth strategies are suitable for younger investors with a high-risk tolerance, who are comfortable accepting greater short-term volatility in exchange for better expected long-term returns.



Investors who fall between these two camps can opt for a balanced investment strategy. This would consist of mixing conservative and aggressive approaches. For example, a balanced portfolio might consist of 25% dividend-paying blue-chip stocks, 25% small-capitalization stocks, 25% AAA-rated government bonds, and 25% investment-grade corporate bonds. Although the exact parameters can be fine-tuned, most balanced investors will be seeking modest returns on their capital, along with a high likelihood of capital preservation.



In the past, investors would need to assemble their portfolios manually by purchasing individual investments. Alternatively, they had to rely on professionals such as investment advisors, or services offered through their financial institutions. Today, automated investing platforms allow investors to automatically invest in a selection of strategies organized by risk tolerance. The process of portfolio allocation is more accessible than ever.






When determining what strategy to select, it is important for investors to consider not only their objective capacity to bear risk, such as their net worth and income, but also their subjective risk tolerance.


   Balanced Funds  

A balanced fund is a mutual fund that contains both a stock and bond component, as well as a small money market component in a single portfolio. Generally, these funds stick to a relatively fixed mix of stocks and bonds, such as 60/40 stocks to bonds. Balanced mutual funds have holdings that are balanced between equity and debt, with their objective somewhere between growth and income. This leads to the name "balanced fund."



Balanced mutual funds are geared toward investors who are looking for a mixture of safety, income, and modest capital appreciation. Typically, retirees or investors with low-risk tolerance utilize balanced funds for healthy growth and supplemental income. The equities component helps to prevent erosion of purchasing power and ensure the long-term preservation of retirement nest eggs.


   Example of a Balanced Investment Strategy  

Trishia is a recent university graduate in her mid-20s. She is new to investing and has about $10,000 to invest. Although Trishia intends to make a down payment within the next few years, she has no immediate needs for her investment capital and would be able to postpone withdrawing her capital until a more favorable time in the event of a sudden market decline.



Objectively speaking, Trishia's youth and financial circumstances put her in a good position to adopt a relatively risky investment strategy that has high long-term growth potential. However, given her subjective risk tolerance, she opts for a more conservative approach.



Using an online investment platform, Trishia decides on a balanced investment strategy featuring a 50/50 split between fixed-income and equity securities. The fixed-income securities consist mainly of high-grade government bonds, along with some highly-rated corporate bonds. The equities consist of blue-chip stocks, all with a reputation for stable earnings and dividend payments.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Balanced Scorecard (BSC)?  

The term balanced scorecard (BSC) refers to a strategic management performance metric used to identify and improve various internal business functions and their resulting external outcomes. Used to measure and provide feedback to organizations, balanced scorecards are common among companies in the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, and Europe. Data collection is crucial to providing quantitative results as managers and executives gather and interpret the information. Company personnel can use this information to make better decisions for the future of their organizations.





Key Takeaways

A balanced scorecard is a performance metric used to identify, improve, and control a business's various functions and resulting outcomes.The concept of BSCs was first introduced in 1992 by David Norton and Robert Kaplan, who took previous metric performance measures and adapted them to include nonfinancial information.BSCs were originally developed for for-profit companies but were later adapted for use by nonprofits and government agencies.The balanced scorecard involves measuring four main aspects of a business: Learning and growth, business processes, customers, and finance.BSCs allow companies to pool information in a single report, to provide information into service and quality in addition to financial performance, and to help improve efficiencies.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Balanced Scorecards (BSCs)  

Accounting academic Dr. Robert Kaplan and business executive and theorist Dr. David Norton first introduced the balanced scorecard. The Harvard Business Review first published it in the 1992 article "The Balanced Scorecard—Measures That Drive Performance." Both Kaplan and Norton worked on a year-long project involving 12 top-performing companies. Their study took previous performance measures and adapted them to include nonfinancial information.






Companies can easily identify factors hindering business performance and outline strategic changes tracked by future scorecards.



BSCs were originally meant for for-profit companies but were later adapted for nonprofit organizations and government agencies. It is meant to measure the intellectual capital of a company, such as training, skills, knowledge, and any other proprietary information that gives it a competitive advantage in the market. The balanced scorecard model reinforces good behavior in an organization by isolating four separate areas that need to be analyzed. These four areas, also called legs, involve:



Learning and growthBusiness processesCustomersFinance



The BSC is used to gather important information, such as objectives, measurements, initiatives, and goals, that result from these four primary functions of a business. Companies can easily identify factors that hinder business performance and outline strategic changes tracked by future scorecards.



The scorecard can provide information about the firm as a whole when viewing company objectives. An organization may use the balanced scorecard model to implement strategy mapping to see where value is added within an organization. A company may also use a BSC to develop strategic initiatives and strategic objectives. This can be done by assigning tasks and projects to different areas of the company in order to boost financial and operational efficiencies, thus improving the company's bottom line.


   Characteristics of the Balanced Scorecard Model (BSC)  

Information is collected and analyzed from four aspects of a business:



Learning and growth are analyzed through the investigation of training and knowledge resources. This first leg handles how well information is captured and how effectively employees use that information to convert it to a competitive advantage within the industry.
Business processes are evaluated by investigating how well products are manufactured. Operational management is analyzed to track any gaps, delays, bottlenecks, shortages, or waste.
Customer perspectives are collected to gauge customer satisfaction with the quality, price, and availability of products or services. Customers provide feedback about their satisfaction with current products.
Financial data, such as sales, expenditures, and income are used to understand financial performance. These financial metrics may include dollar amounts, financial ratios, budget variances, or income targets.



These four legs encompass the vision and strategy of an organization and require active management to analyze the data collected.






The balanced scorecard analyzes is often referred to as a management tool rather than a measurement tool because of its application by a company's key personnel.


   Benefits of a Balanced Scorecard (BSC)  

There are many benefits to using a balanced scorecard. For instance, the BSC allows businesses to pool together information and data into a single report rather than having to deal with multiple tools. This allows management to save time, money, and resources when they need to execute reviews to improve procedures and operations.



Scorecards provide management with valuable insight into their firm's service and quality in addition to its financial track record. By measuring all of these metrics, executives are able to train employees and other stakeholders and provide them with guidance and support. This allows them to communicate their goals and priorities in order to meet their future goals.



Another key benefit of BSCs is how it helps companies reduce their reliance on inefficiencies in their processes. This is referred to as suboptimization. This often results in reduced productivity or output, which can lead to higher costs, lower revenue, and a breakdown in company brand names and their reputations.


   Examples of a Balanced Scorecard (BSC)  

Corporations can use their own, internal versions of BSCs, For example, banks often contact customers and conduct surveys to gauge how well they do in their customer service. These surveys include rating recent banking visits, with questions ranging from wait times, interactions with bank staff, and overall satisfaction. They may also ask customers to make suggestions for improvement. Bank managers can use this information to help retrain staff if there are problems with service or to identify any issues customers have with products, procedures, and services.



In other cases, companies may use external firms to develop reports for them. For instance, the J.D. Power survey is one of the most common examples of a balanced scorecard. This firm provides data, insights, and advisory services to help companies identify problems in their operations and make improvements for the future. J.D. Power does this through surveys in various industries, including the financial services and automotive industries. Results are compiled and reported back to the hiring firm.


   Balanced Scorecard (BSC) FAQs  


What Is a Balanced Scorecard and How Does It Work?
A balanced scorecard is a strategic management performance metric that helps companies identify and improve their internal operations to help their external outcomes. It measures past performance data and provides organizations with feedback on how to make better decisions in the future.




What Are the Four Perspectives of the Balanced Scorecard?
The four perspectives of a balanced scorecard are learning and growth, business processes, customer perspectives, and financial data. These four areas, which are also called legs, make up a company's vision and strategy. As such they require a firm's key personnel, whether that's the executive and/or its management team(s), to analyze the data collected in the scorecard.




How Do You Use a Balanced Scorecard?
Balanced scorecards allow companies to measure their intellectual capital along with their financial data to break down successes and failures in their internal processes. By compiling data from past performance in a single report, management can identify inefficiencies, devise plans for improvement, and communicate goals and priorities to their employees and other stakeholders.




What Are the Balanced Scorecard Benefits?
There are many benefits to using a scorecard. The most important advantages include the ability to bring information into a single report, which can save time, money, and resources. It also allows companies to track their performance in service and quality in addition to tracking their financial data. Scorecards also allow companies to recognize and reduce inefficiencies.




What Is a Balanced Scorecard Example?
Corporations may use internal methods to develop scorecards. For instance, they may conduct customer service surveys to identify the successes and failures of their products and services or they may hire external firms to do the work for them. J.D. Power is an example of one such firm that is hired by companies to conduct research on their behalf.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies have a number of options available to help identify and resolve issues with their internal processes so they can improve their financial success. Balanced scorecards allow companies to collect and study data from four key areas, including learning and growth, business processes, customers, and finance. By pooling together information in just one report. companies can save time, money, and resources to better train staff, communicate with stakeholders, and improve their financial position in the market.
What Is a Balloon Loan?  

A balloon loan is a type of loan that does not fully amortize over its term. Since it is not fully amortized, a balloon payment is required at the end of the term to repay the remaining balance of the loan.



Balloon loans can be attractive to short-term borrowers because they typically carry lower interest rates than loans with longer terms. However, the borrower must be aware of refinancing risks as there's a possibility the loan may reset at a higher interest rate.





Key Takeaways

A balloon loan is a short-term loan that does not fully amortize over its term.Payments are either interest-only or a mix of mainly interest and some principle for a set number of payments.The remainder of the loan is due at once in what's known as a balloon payment.Balloon loans are popular in construction and home flipping.


   How a Balloon Loan Works  

Mortgages are the loans most commonly associated with balloon payments. Balloon mortgages typically have short terms ranging from five to seven years. However, the monthly payments through this short term are not set up to cover the entire loan repayment. Instead, the monthly payments are calculated as if the loan is a traditional 30-year mortgage.



That said, the payment structure for a balloon loan is very different from a traditional loan. At the end of the five to seven-year term, the borrower has paid off only a fraction of the principal balance, and the rest is then due all at once. At that point, the borrower may sell the home to cover the balloon payment or take out a new loan to cover the payment, effectively refinancing the mortgage. Alternatively, they may make the payment in cash.






Defaulting on a balloon loan will negatively impact the borrower's credit rating.


   Example of a Balloon Loan  

Let's say a person takes out a $200,000 mortgage with a seven-year term and a 4.5% interest rate. Their monthly payment for seven years is $1,013. At the end of the seven-year term, they owe a $175,066 balloon payment.


   Special Considerations for a Balloon Loan  

Some balloon loans, such as a five-year balloon mortgage, have a reset option at the end of the five-year term that allows for a resetting of the interest rate, based on current interest rates, and a recalculation of the amortization schedule, based on a new term. If a balloon loan does not have a reset option, the lender expects the borrower to pay the balloon payment or refinance the loan before the end of the original term.



If interest rates are very high and (in the case of a mortgage) the borrower doesn't plan to keep the home for long, a balloon loan could make sense. But it comes with high risk when the loan term is up. The borrower will need financial discipline to save enough money for the balloon payment. What's more, if interest rates are low or are expected to rise, they may well be higher when the borrower needs to refinance.


   Pros and Cons of Balloon Loans  

For some buyers, a balloon loan has clear advantages.



Much lower monthly payments than a traditional amortized loan because very little of the principal is being repaid; this may permit an individual to borrow more than they otherwise could.
Not feeling the full impact of high interest rates because, as noted above, the payment is reduced, given the limited pay down of principal.
Not committing to decades of paying at a high interest rate; the terms are typically five to seven years, after which the borrower gets to refinance, possibly at a lower interest rate.



But having a loan with a giant balloon payment of most or all of the principal also has clear disadvantages.



Defaulting on the loan if the borrower cannot convince their current lender or another entity to finance the balloon payment and cannot raise the funds to pay off the principal balance.Being unable to sell the property at a high enough price to pay the balloon payment, and then defaulting on the loan.Being able to successfully refinance the balloon loan but at a higher interest rate, driving up monthly payments (this will be even more true if the new loan is amortized and includes paying off the principal).



There's also an underlying risk of opting for a balloon loan. It's easy to be tricked by the small size of the original interest-only (or mostly) monthly payment into borrowing more money than an individual can comfortably afford to borrow. That is also a potential road to financial ruin.




What Industries Use Balloon Loans?
Balloon loans are popular in the construction industry and for home flippers. Contractors or real estate investors use the low initial payments to complete work on a project, hoping to sell it before the balloon payment comes due.




What Happens if You Can't Pay Your Balloon Payment?
Defaulting on your balloon payment is the same as defaulting on any loan—it can lead to foreclosure and repossession of property. Defaulting will ruin your credit rating, making it harder to borrow in the future.




Can You Refinance a Balloon Loan?
Yes. Many people plan to refinance a balloon loan before the balloon payment is due to take advantage of the more affordable initial interest-only period, hoping that interest rates will be more favorable later. This is risky, however—interest rates are volatile, and you may end up refinancing for a higher rate than if you had chosen a fixed-interest rate loan in the first place.


   The Bottom Line  

Balloon loans can offer flexibility in the initial loan period by providing a low payment. Still, borrowers should have a plan to pay the remaining balance or refinance before the payment comes due. These loans do have their place—for those who only need to borrow for a short time, they can offer significant savings. Be realistic about your loan needs before borrowing.
What Is a Balloon Payment?  

A balloon payment is the final amount due on a loan that is structured as a series of small monthly payments followed by a single much larger sum at the end of the loan period. The early payments may be all or almost all payments of interest owed on the loan, with the balloon payment being the principal of the loan. This type of loan is known as a balloon loan.



The balloon home mortgage loan became common in the years before the 2007-2008 financial crisis. It allowed people eager to buy a home to obtain a mortgage payment that they could afford, at least in the early years.



The balloon loan did not disappear with the financial crisis but is now more often used for business loans. A project can be financed with a loan that allows for minimal payments early on, with the balloon payment due only when the project is earning a return on the investment.



The balloon payment is similar to a bullet repayment.





Key Takeaways

A balloon payment is a type of loan structured so that the last payment is far larger than prior payments.Balloon payments are an option for home mortgages, auto loans, and business loans.Borrowers have lower initial monthly payments under a balloon loan.The interest rate is usually higher for a balloon loan, and only borrowers with high creditworthiness are considered.The balloon payment may be a weighted payment amount or, under an interest-only payment plan, be the full balance of the principal due.


   Understanding Balloon Payments  

As the term "balloon" suggests, the final payment on this type of loan is significantly large.



In recent years, balloon payments have been more common in commercial lending than in consumer lending. It allows a commercial lender to keep short-term costs lower and take care of the balloon payment with future earnings.



The same logic is used by individual homebuyers, but the risks are greater. Homebuyers are keeping their short-term costs low while assuming that their incomes will be far greater when the balloon payment comes due, that they will be able to refinance their mortgage before it is due, or that they can sell the house and pay off the entire mortgage before the balloon payment comes due.



That strategy failed in the 2008-2009 financial crisis, when homeowners who financed their purchases with balloon mortgages found it impossible to sell their homes at a price high enough to pay off the amount they had borrowed.






Balloon payments are often packaged into two-step mortgages. In this financing structure, a borrower receives an introductory and often lower interest rate at the start of their loan. Then, the loan shifts to a higher interest rate after an initial borrowing period.


   Balloon Payment Examples  

A balloon debt structure can be implemented for any type of debt. It's most commonly used in mortgages, auto loans, and business loans.


  Mortgage  

The balloon mortgage is rarely used for traditional 15-year or 30-year mortgages since lenders don't want to wait that long to get their money back. For balloon mortgages, lenders prefer a five-year to ten-year term.



Interest-only balloon mortgages are available primarily to high-net-worth individuals who can afford large down payments. They are often taken with the intention of refinancing before the balloon payment is due.


  Balloon Loan vs. ARM  

A balloon loan is sometimes confused with an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM). With an ARM, the borrower receives an introductory rate for a set amount of time, usually for one to five years. The interest rate resets at that point and might continue to reset periodically until the loan has been fully repaid.



The incentive is a very low-interest rate at the beginning, compared to the fixed-rate mortgage rate. The downside is the potential for a substantially higher rate down the road.



An ARM adjusts automatically, unlike balloon loans.






  Auto Loan  

Balloon loans are not as common when used as auto loans. However, this structure works especially well for individuals who have an urgent need to secure a vehicle but can't immediately afford high monthly payments.



As lending restrictions are often not as stringent in the auto loan industry, it is often easier for a borrower to secure this type of loan. Lenders are usually comfortable with the standard car loan term of up to six years.


  Business Loan  

It is usually easier for a business to secure a balloon loan if the business has a proven financial history and favorable credit record. An established business can be in a better position than an individual wage-earner to raise sufficient money to pay off the balloon payment.



For this reason, lenders often consider businesses less risky than individual consumers for business loans.



Balloon payments can be strategically used by a business to finance short-term needs. The business may draw on a balloon loan with no intention of holding the debt to the end of the term. Instead, the company can use the money to repay the loan in full before the end of the loan term.


   Options for Avoiding a Balloon Payment  

A borrower has a couple of ways to get rid of a looming payment. In addition to extinguishing the debt by paying off the balloon payment, a borrower can:



Refinance the loan. A lender may be willing to work with a borrower to repurpose the debt into a different loan vehicle or modify the terms of the original agreement.
Sell the underlying asset. If the balloon payment is due to the purchase of an asset, a borrower may be forced to liquidate the holding to avoid defaulting on the loan.
Pay principal upfront. Though not required, a borrower may be able to pay a portion of the debt early. Any payment made more than the interest assessment will be applied to the principal balance. Check with your lender to ensure there are no prepayment penalties or fees.
Negotiate an extension. Similar to refinancing, an extension changes the terms of the prior loan. However, instead of receiving a new deal, an extension will simply push out the timing of the balloon payment. You'll likely have the same payment terms as before but with different obligation dates.






Balloon loans usually require collateral. For home or car loans, the lender may require a lien on the property being purchased. Should you default on your loan and not be able to satisfy the balloon payment, the lender has a legal claim to seize the property.


   Advantages of Balloon Payments  

The obvious advantage of balloon payments is the low initial payment requirement. The monthly balloon payment amount during the fixed period is generally less than the payment amount of a fully amortized loan.



The timing of the payment size may mesh well with the borrower's income expectations. As the borrower's salary increases due to career progression, the debt obligation will rise as well.



A balloon note or loan often has a shorter underwriting process compared to other loans. For this reason, there may be lower administrative or transaction fees in securing the loan. A borrower may also not be required to show as much documentation for this type of loan, as balloon mortgages often do not require a home appraisal as part of loan closing.



A balloon payment structure is strategically advantageous for some borrowers. For example, people who flip houses can secure lower upfront monthly payments. The borrower has time to remodel the house and sell it before the balloon payment is due.



This allows borrowers to preserve future cash flow for other purposes.


   Disadvantages of Balloon Payments  

Balloon payments can be a big problem in a falling housing market.



As home prices decline, homeowners may be unable to sell their homes for enough to cover the balloon payment, and they might be unable to sell at any price.



For home flippers, this means getting stuck with a high-interest rate loan should sales stall.



Borrowers often have no choice but to default on their loans and enter foreclosure, regardless of their household incomes, when faced with a balloon payment they cannot afford. This results in the loss of the borrower's home.



Some will be able to take out another loan to cover the upcoming balloon mortgage payment, but this puts a tremendous strain on a family's finances.



Balloon mortgages and auto loans may be difficult to refinance depending on the amount of equity that has been paid off. The loans may only pay interest early on. In this case, the owner may have little-to-no equity in the property despite making consistent payments for years.



These types of loans can be harder to qualify for. Because principal payments are deferred, lenders often prefer borrowers with a high credit score or high down payment. In addition, to compensate for the flexibility of the principal obligation and increased risk for the lender, lenders usually charge higher interest rates for balloon debt compared to other types of loans.




Balloon Payments

Pros

Lower upfront payments compared to other loan types
Greater buying power during low income periods with increasing debt obligation during higher income periods
Shorter underwriting process compared to other loan types
Greater strategic potential for certain industries
Fewer documentation requirements for underwriting



Cons

Greater risk in foreclosure if you can't meet your loan requirement
Slower build-up of equity resulting in potential difficulty in refinancing loan
Harder to qualify for due to higher credit preferences by lenders
Higher costs (i.e., higher interest) due to the riskier nature of the loan from the lender's perspective







What Is a Balloon Payment?
A balloon payment is a lump sum principal balance that is due at the end of a loan term. The borrower pays much smaller monthly payments until the balloon payment is due. These payments may be entirely or almost entirely interest on the loan rather than principal.




How Does a Balloon Payment Work?
A balloon payment works like any other loan installment payment. The difference is that it is the final payment on the loan, and is substantially higher than the previous payments.A typical balloon loan requires only interest to be paid each month until the final month of the loan term. In the final month, the entire principal balance is due.The interest paid each month is typically a fixed amount as the principal balance does not change and the interest charged each month is not capitalized as part of the loan but instead paid off immediately.




Is a Balloon Payment Legal?
Yes, a balloon payment is a legal debt instrument. A lender can intentionally structure a loan for a borrower who wants to pay a series of low monthly payments followed by a single large payment of principal at the end of the loan.The borrower must be aware of the long-term obligation of paying down the principal balance all at once at the end of the loan.




Are Balloon Payments a Good Idea for a Car Purchase?
A balloon payment may be suitable for borrowers who are in urgent need of a car but are unprepared to deal with a large monthly payment.In such cases, the borrower will probably pay a higher interest rate than is charged on a conventional car loan.Most importantly, the borrower must keep an eye on that looming balloon payment at the end of the loan term and be ready to pay it.


   The Bottom Line  

Balloon payments are relatively common for business ventures. They lower financing costs during the early stages of a new project, and allow the business time to realize some profits from the venture before they need to pay off the balance of the loan.



They are available to consumers but typically only for those with a hefty down payment and a healthy credit rating.



When used for a home mortgage, the balloon payment carries extra risks. The buyer is paying mostly interest or only interest for some years and counting on price growth to provide equity.



Borrowers are assuming that they can refinance the mortgage or sell the home at a profit before the balloon payment falls due. If the housing market takes an unexpected downturn and their home loses value, that strategy may fail.
What Is a Ballpark Figure?  

A ballpark figure is a rough numerical estimate or approximation of the value of something that is otherwise unknown. Ballpark figures are commonly used by accountants, salespersons, and other professionals to estimate current or future results. A stockbroker could use a ballpark figure to estimate how much money a client might have at some point in the future, given a certain rate of growth. A salesperson could use a ballpark figure to estimate how long a product a customer was thinking about buying might be viable.



A ballpark figure is essentially a placeholder established for purposes of speculating what the amount or total of something might amount to so that the parties involved can move forward in whatever negotiation or planning is underway. As a concept, it has applications in business estimates, as well as in everyday life, depending on the circumstances.






A ballpark figure is a broad numerical estimate of what something might amount to if it was measured accurately, and assessed for the purpose of business negotiations, dealmaking, or general brainstorming of ideas.


   Understanding Ballpark Figures  

Ballpark figures are estimates used to move a discussion or deal forward when the exact measurement of the size or amount of something cannot yet be determined.



Ballpark figures can be used for day-to-day purposes, such as estimating how much food and beverages might be needed for a barbecue or how many months it will likely take to pay off a new purchase.



Ballpark figures are also used everywhere in the business world, such as estimating how much it might cost to expand into a certain market, or how many years it might take for a company to be profitable or for sales to justify a large purchase. It can also be used to estimate public adoption of a concept, technology, or product, as in how many people are likely to buy a certain phone and how long it might take them to upgrade that phone, once purchased.





Key Takeaways

A ballpark figure is an estimate of what something might amount to numerically when a more accurate number is assessed, such as the cost of a product.Ballpark figures can be helpful in establishing a placeholder, for purposes of conversation or estimation, when a more precise number is not available.Ballpark figures are used in daily life and in many aspects of business; however, it is important to remember it is just an estimate, not an accurate read of something.


   Special Considerations  

While ballpark figures are used frequently and can be helpful in establishing a baseline for discussion, they should be treated as nothing more than estimates; they are not hard numbers. These figures are frequently blown out of proportion by salespersons and other professionals who must use persuasion to generate income or close deals. Major business and financial decisions should probably not be made based on these numbers; however, they could first serve as estimates to be refined through more thorough analysis.



A popular theory of the term posits that is probably has a history similar to that of the idiom "in the same ballparkm" which means "approximately the same amount."
What Is the Baltic Dry Index (BDI)?  

The Baltic Dry Index (BDI) is a shipping and trade index created by the London-based Baltic Exchange. It measures changes in the cost of transporting various raw materials, such as coal and steel.



Members of the exchange directly contact shipping brokers to assess price levels for given shipping paths, a product to transport, and time to delivery or speed. The Baltic Dry Index is a composite of four sub-indices that measure different sizes of dry bulk carriers or merchant ships: Capesize, Panamax, Supramax, and Handysize.





Key Takeaways

The Baltic Dry Index (BDI) is an index of average prices paid for the transport of dry bulk materials across more than 20 routes.The BDI is often viewed as a leading indicator of economic activity because changes in the index reflect supply and demand for important materials used in manufacturing.The index can experience high levels of volatility because the supply of large carriers tends to be small with long lead times and high production costs.


   How the Baltic Dry Index Works  

The Baltic Exchange calculates the index by assessing multiple shipping rates across more than 20 routes for each of the BDI component vessels. Analyzing multiple geographic shipping paths for each index gives depth to the index's composite measurement. Members contact dry bulk shippers worldwide to gather their prices and they then calculate an average. The Baltic Exchange issues the BDI daily.



A change in the Baltic Dry Index can give investors insight into global supply and demand trends. Many consider a rising or contracting index to be a leading indicator of future economic growth. It's based on raw materials because the demand for them portends the future. These materials are bought to construct and sustain buildings and infrastructure, not at times when buyers have either an excess of materials or are no longer constructing buildings or manufacturing products.



The Baltic Exchange also operates as a maker of markets in freight derivatives, including types of financial forward contracts known as forward freight agreements.


   The Sizes of BDI Vessels  

The BDI measures shipments on various sizes of cargo ships. Capesize boats are the largest ships in the BDI with 100,000 deadweight tonnage (DWT) or greater. The average size of a Capesize ship is 156,000 DWT.



This category can also include some massive vessels with capacities of 400,000 DWT. Capesize ships primarily transport coal and iron ore on long-haul routes and are occasionally used to transport grains. They're too large to cross over the Panama Canal.



Panamax ships have a 60,000 to 80,000 DWT capacity, and they're used mostly to transport coal, grains, and minor bulk products such as sugar and cement. Panamax cargo ships require specialized equipment for loading and unloading. They can barely squeeze through the Panama Canal.



The smallest vessels included in the BDI are Supramaxes, also referred to as Handymaxes (or Handysize). These ships have a carrying capacity of 45,000 to 59,999 DWT. They're sometimes Although they're close in size to Panamaxes, Supramaxes normally have specialized equipment for loading and unloading, and they're used in ports where Panamaxes cannot.


   Type of Dry Bulk Commodities  

Dry bulk commodities are usually divided into two categories: major bulks and minor bulks. Some examples of major dry bulk commodities include iron ore, coal, and grain. These major bulks account for nearly two-thirds of global dry bulk trade. Minor bulks include steel products, sugars, cement, and cover the remaining one-third of global dry bulk trade.



Coal, along with iron ore, is one of the most traded dry bulk commodities by volume in the world. Countries most involved in the importation of coal for their primary energy and electricity needs are India, China, and Japan. Grain is another major cargo in terms of seaborne dry bulk trade and accounts for a chunk of the total dry bulk trade worldwide.


   Real-World Example  

The index can fall when the goods shipped are raw, pre-production material, which is typically an area with minimal levels of speculation. The index can experience high levels of volatility if global demand increases or suddenly drops off because the supply of large carriers tends to be small with long lead times and high production costs.



Stock prices increase when the global market is healthy and growing, and they tend to decrease when it's stalled or dropping. The index is reasonably consistent because it depends on black-and-white factors of supply and demand without much in the way of influences such as unemployment and inflation.



The BDI predicted the 2008 recession in some measure when prices experienced a sharp drop. In one striking example of the insight that can come from the index, analysts could observe that between September 2019 and January 2020, the Baltic Dry Index (BDI) fell by more than 70%, a strong indication of economic contraction. This occurred directly ahead of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Then, into 2021, the BDI rose dramatically as the pandemic led to snarls and delays in global shipping.















BDI.
What Is Bancassurance?  

Bancassurance is an arrangement between a bank and an insurance company allowing the insurance company to sell its products to the bank's client base. This partnership arrangement can be profitable for both companies. Banks earn additional revenue by selling insurance products, and insurance companies expand their customer bases without increasing their sales force.





Key Takeaways

Bancassurance is an arrangement between a bank and an insurance company, through which the insurer can sell its products to the bank's customers. The insurance company benefits from increased sales and a broader client base without having to expand its sales force.The bank benefits by receiving additional revenue from the sale of insurance products.


   Understanding Bancassurance  

Bancassurance arrangements are common in Europe, where the practice has a long history. European banks, such as Crédit Agricole (France), ABN AMRO (Netherlands), BNP Paribas (France), and ING (Netherlands), dominate the global bancassurance market.



But the picture varies widely from country to country. A 2013 report found that while bancassurance accounted for 83.6% of life insurance sales in Italy, 66.2% in Spain, 64.2% in France, and 62.6% in Austria, its market share was lower in Eastern Europe and nonexistent in the United Kingdom and Ireland.



The United States has been slower than many nations to embrace the concept. In part, that's because the question of whether banks in the U.S. should be allowed to sell insurance was a matter of contentious debate for many years. Among the issues: unfair competition for insurance agents, possible risks to the banking sector, and the potential for banks to pressure customers into buying insurance in order to qualify for loans.



Advocates, meanwhile, maintained that both banks and insurance companies would profit from the arrangement, that it would also be a convenience for consumers, and that the added competition might lead to lower insurance prices.



The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 effectively prohibited many large national banks from selling insurance products. However, whether a bank could sell insurance depended largely on the type of bank and which agency or agencies regulated it. As the U.S. General Accounting Office noted in a 1990 report, by the late 1980s, many states allowed state-chartered banks to sell most types of insurance, and "in towns with populations less than 6,000, bank holding companies, national banks, and some state banks can sell all types of insurance."



In 1999, the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act eliminated most of the remaining restrictions on U.S. banks selling insurance products while continuing to allow the states to regulate other aspects of insurance.


   Bancassurance Industry Growth  

The bancassurance market is growing worldwide, particularly for life insurance and especially in the Asia-Pacific region. The research and consulting firm IMARC Group says the global bancassurance market reached a value of $1.268 trillion in 2021. IMARC expects the market to continue to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.9% and attain a value of $1.802 trillion by 2027. A major factor driving the trend: a growing "geriatric population with greater need for health and life insurance as well as retirement plans."


   The Advantages and Disadvantages of Bancassurance  

From a consumer point of view, bancassurance offers both advantages and disadvantages. On the plus side, buying insurance at the bank is convenient. That's especially true in small towns where insurance agents may be scarce, although less so now that insurance is widely available online. That convenience may also encourage more Americans who need life insurance to buy some.



On the negative side, the ease of buying at the bank may discourage consumers from shopping around and getting a competitive price on their insurance. There is also some question as to how qualified bank employees are to advise customers on their insurance needs, compared with insurance agents and brokers who specialize in the field.



For banks that become involved in bancassurance, there appears to be little downside, except the possible risk to their reputation if the insurance products their employees sell prove inadequate or unsuitable for the consumer.




When Did Bancassurance Begin?
Bancassurance as we know it today appears to have begun in France in the 1970s (which would account for its seemingly French name). Spain was also an early adopter, in the 1980s. Both of those countries continue to be bancassurance market share leaders.




Who Regulates Bancassurance in the United States?
Generally speaking, in the U.S., the individual states continue to regulate insurance products and sales practices as well as to license insurance salespeople. However, since the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999, "state laws generally cannot 'prevent or restrict' insurance activities conducted by national banks and their subsidiaries," according to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.




What Types of Insurance Are Sold at Banks?
Depending on the country and the particular bank, consumers can buy a wide variety of insurance at their local banks, including life, health, and property and casualty insurance. However, life insurance is the dominant product in the U.S. and most of the world. In 2018, for example, about 29% of life insurance globally was sold through bancassurance, while only about 2% of property and casualty insurance was, according to McKinsey & Company.


   The Bottom Line  

Bancassurance is not a type of insurance but a sales channel for the selling of insurance products through banks. It is common in much of the world today and growing in acceptance in the United States. For banks and insurance companies, bancassurance can be a profitable enterprise. For consumers it can be convenient, although it may discourage comparison shopping and limit their access to expert advice.
What Is the Bandwagon Effect?  

The bandwagon effect is a psychological phenomenon in which people do something primarily because other people are doing it, regardless of their own beliefs, which they may ignore or override. This tendency of people to align their beliefs and behaviors with those of a group is also called a herd mentality.



The term "bandwagon effect" originates from politics but has wide implications commonly seen in consumer behavior and investment activities. This phenomenon can be seen during bull markets and the growth of asset bubbles.





Key Takeaways

The bandwagon effect is when people start doing something because everybody else seems to be doing it.The bandwagon effect can be attributed to psychological, social, and economic factors. The bandwagon effect originates in politics, where people vote for the candidate who appears to have the most support because they want to be part of the majority.The bandwagon effect can also impact consumer spending and investing decisions.


   Why the Bandwagon Effect Happens  

The bandwagon effect arises primarily from psychological and sociological factors. People are biologically programed to be social and like to be part of a group. Behaving the same way a group does can lead to belonging and acceptance. People also like to be on the winning team and to signal their social identity. To do so, they adopt the behavior of the group around them, and that behavior begins to seem desirable or normal due to proximity and repetition.


  Heuristics  

The human brain uses "shortcuts," known as heuristics, to make decisions more efficiently. One of these shortcuts is looking at what other people are doing. If enough people are following a trend or making the same decision, your brain will assume that it's the correct decision to make.



Economically, this can make sense, as it allows you to economize on the costs of gathering information by relying on the knowledge and opinions of others. For example, if you are having a baby, you could spend hours researching different baby strollers and trying to find the best option. Or, if everyone you know has the same baby stroller model, you might decide that's the best one because everyone else uses it. As long as it is a good stroller, you would have saved yourself hours of time lost to research that you didn't need.



On the other hand, following what the group does without considering its full implications can cause problems. This was seen in the lead-up to the housing crisis in 2007. Financial institutions all joined the subprime mortgage bandwagon, creating an unregulated and unstable housing bubble. Investors and buyers all believed the market would continue to be stable because everyone else also believed it would remain stable. This proved to be a false belief and led to the Great Recession of 2007-2009.


  Illusory Truth Effect  

Repetition can also affect what people believe to be true. People tend to believe claims are more true if they have been exposed to them more. This is why advertisements, propaganda, and false news all work: they expose people to the same idea over and over. This is known as the illusory truth effect.



This can become part of the bandwagon effect as well. You may support one sports team, but if everyone you know constantly talks about how much better a different sports team is, it starts to seem like a true statement. The repetition alone may be enough to convince you to follow the crowd and start supporting the new team.


   Impact of the Bandwagon Effect In Different Areas  

The bandwagon effect can be seen in different areas of everyday life. It can be seen in everyday social behavior, such as smoking because your friends smoke or exercising because your friends exercise. It is also often at work in the fields of politics, consumer behavior, and finance.


  Politics  

In politics, the bandwagon effect might cause citizens to vote for the person who appears to have more popular support because they want to belong to the majority. The term "bandwagon" refers to a wagon that carries a band through a parade. During the 19th century, an entertainer named Dan Rice traveled the country campaigning for President Zachary Taylor. Rice's bandwagon was the centerpiece of his campaign events, and he encouraged those in the crowd to "jump on the bandwagon" and support Taylor.



By the early 20th century, bandwagons were commonplace in political campaigns, and "jump on the bandwagon" had become a derogatory term used to describe the social phenomenon of wanting to be part of the majority, even when it means going against one's principles or beliefs.


  Consumer Behavior  

Consumers often economize on the cost of gathering information and evaluating the quality of consumer goods by relying on the opinions and purchasing behavior of other consumers. To some extent, this is a beneficial and useful tendency; if other people's preferences are similar, their consumption decisions are rational, and they have accurate information about the relative quality of available consumer goods, then it makes perfect sense to follow their lead and effectively outsource the cost of gathering information to someone else. 



However, this kind of bandwagon effect can create a problem in that it gives every consumer an incentive to free-ride on the information and preferences of other consumers. To the extent that it leads to a situation where information regarding consumer products might be underproduced, or produced solely or mostly by marketers, it can be criticized. For example, people might buy a new electronic item because of its popularity, regardless of whether they need it, can afford it, or even really want it.



Bandwagon effects in consumption can also be related to conspicuous consumption, where consumers buy expensive products as a signal of economic status. 


  Investment and Finance  

The bandwagon effect has been identified in behavioral economics as well. Investing and financial markets can be especially vulnerable to bandwagon effects because not only will the same kind of social, psychological, and information-economizing factors occur, but additionally the prices of assets tend to rise as more people jump on the bandwagon. This can create a positive feedback loop of rising prices and increased demand for an asset, related to George Soros' concept of reflexivity.



For example, during the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s, dozens of tech startups emerged that had no viable business plans, no products or services ready to bring to market, and in many cases, nothing more than a name (usually something tech-sounding with ".com" or ".net" as a suffix). Despite lacking in vision and scope, these companies attracted millions of investment dollars in large part due to the bandwagon effect.


   How to Avoid the Bandwagon Effect  

Minimizing the bandwagon effect can be a difficult process. Groupthink is difficult to escape, as are the biases that humans are socially prone to having. There are three steps you can take to minimize the bandwagon effect.



Think critically. Consider how your position, needs, or opinions differ from those around you. Rather than following what other people are doing, you can take an alternative or contrarian position while you explore your options.
Look for reliable sources of information. Find ones that have been vetted on multiple levels, are free from or openly acknowledge their biases, and do not make a profit based on your choices.
Make decisions more slowly. After you gather information, give yourself a break from outside inputs while you make a decision. Don't let someone pressure you into an immediate choice.



You may eventually choose not to follow the crowd; in some cases, you might discover that the popular choice is also a good one for you. Either way, you'll feel more confident if you've taken the time to research and make your decision because it's what you want to do, not just what everyone else is doing.




Who First Identified the Bandwagon Effect?
The term "bandwagon" stems from the 1848 U.S. presidential election. During Zachary Taylor's successful campaign, a popular performance clown invited Taylor to join his circus bandwagon. Taylor received a significant amount of renown, and people started claiming that his political opponents might also want to “jump on the bandwagon.”




Is the Bandwagon Effect Positive or Negative?
The bandwagon effect itself is a neutral phenomenon. Whether following the behavior of others is positive or negative depends on the behavior being followed. For example, if everyone you know is saving for retirement and discusses it frequently, you may be more likely to save for retirement because you are copying the behavior of those around you. In that case, the bandwagon effect would be positive for you. But if everyone you know lives a lavish lifestyle, and you do the same even though you can't afford it, the bandwagon effect would have negative consequences for you.




Why Is the Bandwagon Effect Important to Investors?
The bandwagon effect can lead investors to follow the crowd, which may result in asset bubbles or crashes, depending on if the crowd is buying or selling. In either case, people may invest for fear of missing out (FOMO) rather than making individual evaluations of investments and doing due diligence. Buying or selling simply because everyone else seems to be doing it can lead to bad outcomes.


   The Bottom Line  

The bandwagon effect is a phenomenon in which people start doing something because everybody else seems to be doing it. It can be caused by psychological, social, and economic factors. People may want to be part of a group that seems likely to win, be convinced something is correct because they've heard it repeated so many times, or simply be influenced by their friends or relatives.



The bandwagon effect was first identified in politics. People often vote for the candidate who appears to have the most support because they want to be part of the majority, regardless of their own political beliefs. It can also impact consumer spending and investing decisions.
What Is a Bank?  

A bank is a financial institution that is licensed to accept checking and savings deposits and make loans. Banks also provide related services such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs), certificates of deposit (CDs), currency exchange, and safe deposit boxes.



There are several types of banks including retail banks, commercial or corporate banks, and investment banks.



In the U.S., banks are regulated by the national government and by the individual states.





Key Takeaways

A bank is a financial institution licensed to receive deposits and make loans.There are several types of banks including retail, commercial, and investment banks. In most countries, banks are regulated by the national government or central bank.


   Understanding Banks  

Banks have existed since at least the 14th century. They provide a safe place for consumers and business owners to stow their cash and a source of loans for personal purchases and business ventures. In turn, the banks use the cash that is deposited to make loans and collect interest on them.



The basic business plan hasn't changed much since the Medici family started dabbling in banking during the Renaissance, but the range of products that banks offer has grown.


  Basic Bank Services  

Banks offer various ways to stash your cash and various ways to borrow money.



Checking Accounts



Checking accounts are deposits used by consumers and businesses to pay their bills and make cash withdrawals. They pay little or no interest and typically come with monthly fees, usage fees, or both.



Today's consumers generally have their paychecks and any other regular payments automatically deposited in one of these accounts.



Savings Accounts



Savings accounts pay interest to the depositor. Depending on how long account holders hope to keep their money in the bank, they can open a regular savings account that pays a little interest or a certificate of deposit (CD) that pays a little more interest. The CDs can earn interest for as little as a few months or as long as five years or more.



It is important to note that the money in checking accounts, savings accounts, and CDs is insured up to a maximum of $250,000 by the federal government through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC).



Loan Services



Banks make loans to consumers and businesses. The cash that is deposited by their customers is lent out to other customers at a higher rate of interest than the depositor is paid.



At the highest level, this is the process that keeps the economy humming. People deposit their money in banks; the bank lends the money out in car loans, credit cards, mortgages, and business loans. The loan recipients spend the money they borrow, the bank earns interest on the loans, and the process keeps money moving through the system.



Just like any other business, the goal of a bank is to earn a profit for its owners. For most banks, the owners are their shareholders. Banks do this by charging more interest on the loans and other debt they issue to borrowers than they pay to people who use their savings vehicles.



For example, a bank may pay 1% interest on savings accounts and charge 6% interest for its mortgage loans, earning a gross profit of 5% for its owners.






Banks make a profit by charging more interest for loans than they pay on savings accounts.


  Brick-and-Mortar and Online Banks  

Banks range in size from small, community-based institutions to global commercial banks.



According to the FDIC, there were just over 4,200 FDIC-insured commercial banks in the United States as of 2021. This number includes national banks, state-chartered banks, commercial banks, and other financial institutions.



Traditional banks now offer both brick-and-mortar branch locations and online services. Online-only banks began emerging in early 2010s.



Consumers choose a bank based on its interest rates, the fees it charges, and the convenience of its locations, among other factors.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How Are Banks Regulated?  

U.S. banks came under intense scrutiny after the global financial crisis of 2008. The regulatory environment for banks was tightened considerably as a result.



Depending on their business structures, U.S. banks may be regulated at the state or national level, or both. State banks are regulated by each state's department of banking or department of financial institutions. This agency is generally responsible for issues such as permitted practices, how much interest a bank can charge, and auditing and inspecting banks.



National banks are regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). OCC regulations primarily cover bank capital levels, asset quality, and liquidity. As noted above, banks with FDIC insurance are also regulated by the FDIC.



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was passed in 2010 following the financial crisis with the intention of reducing risks in the U.S. financial system. Under this act, large banks now have to submit to regular tests that measure whether they have sufficient capital to continue operating under challenging economic conditions. This annual assessment is referred to as a stress test.


   Types of Banks  

Most banks can be categorized as retail, commercial or corporate, or investment banks. The big global banks often operate separate arms for each of these categories.


  Retail Banks  

Retail banks offer their services to the general public and usually have branch offices as well as main offices for the convenience of their customers.



They provide a range of services such as checking and savings accounts, loan and mortgage services, financing for automobiles, and short-term loans such as overdraft protection. Many also offer credit cards.



They also offer access to investments in CDs, mutual funds, and individual retirement accounts (IRAs). The larger retail banks also cater to high-net-worth individuals with specialty services such as private banking and wealth management services.



Examples of retail banks include TD Bank and Citibank.


  Commercial or Corporate Banks  

Commercial or corporate banks tailor their services to business clients, from small business owners to large, corporate entities. Along with day-to-day business banking, these banks also offer credit services, cash management, commercial real estate services, employer services, and trade finance,



JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America are examples of commercial banks, though both have large retail banking divisions as well.


  Investment Banks  

Investment banks focus on providing corporate clients with complex services and financial transactions such as underwriting and assisting with merger and acquisition (M&A) activity. They are primarily financial intermediaries in these transactions.



Their clients include large corporations, other financial institutions, pension funds, governments, and hedge funds.



Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are among the biggest U.S. investment banks.


  Central Banks  

Unlike the banks above, central banks does not deal directly with the public. A central bank is an independent institution authorized by a government to oversee the nation's money supply and its monetary policy.



As such, central banks are responsible for the stability of the currency and of the economic system as a whole. They also have a role in regulating the capital and reserve requirements of the nation's banks.



The U.S. Federal Reserve Bank is the central bank of the U.S. The European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the Swiss National Bank, and the People’s Bank of China are among its counterparts in other nations.


   Bank vs. Credit Union  

Credit unions offer banking services but, unlike banks, they are not-for-profit institutions created for and managed by their members or customers. Credit unions provide routine banking services to their clients, who are generally called members.



Credit unions are created, owned, and operated by their clients, and are generally tax-exempt. Members purchase shares in the co-op, and that money is pooled together to fund the credit union's loans.



They tend to provide a limited range of services compared to banks. They also have fewer locations and automated teller machines (ATMs).




How Do I Know My Money Is Safe in a Bank?
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is an independent agency created by Congress to maintain stability and public confidence in the U.S. financial system. The FDIC supervises and examines banks to ensure that the money they handle is safe.Moreover, it insures your money. The insurance maximum is $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category.You don't have to purchase this insurance. If you open a deposit in an FDIC-insured bank, you are automatically covered.The agency's BankFind site can help you identify FDIC-insured banks and branches.




Are Any Non-Bank Accounts Insured?
The mission of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) is to recover cash and securities in the event a member brokerage firm fails. SIPC is a nonprofit corporation that Congress created in 1970. SIPC protects the customers of all registered brokerage firms in the U.S. This applies to stocks and bonds (securities) and cash that a brokerage firm holds. Brokerage firms rarely fail or close suddenly, but if this occurs, the SIPC helps close the firm through liquidation and establishes claims processes by which it can protect the investor. SIPC protects your account for up to $500,000 in securities. This includes a limit of $250,000 in cash in your account. This link will show you a list of all registered SIPC members.




Should I Choose a Retail Bank, Credit Union, or Commercial Bank?
You should consider whether you want to keep both business and personal accounts at the same bank, or whether you want them at separate banks. A retail bank, which has basic banking services for customers, is the most appropriate for everyday banking. You can choose a traditional bank, which has a physical building, or an online bank if you don't want or need to physically visit a bank branch. You might consider a credit union, which is a nonprofit institution and is available to serve the needs of people with a common employer, labor union, or professional interest.




What Other Factors Go Into Choosing a Bank?
Bank size is another consideration. Large retail banks are often well-known, big-name banks and have locations throughout the U.S., which is convenient if you travel often for work or vacation. You would have easier access to your funds when you're away and may be able to avoid foreign ATM fees.Otherwise, you might find that a smaller bank would offer more personalized customer service and the products you prefer. A community bank, for example, takes deposits and lends locally, which could offer a more personalized banking relationship.Choose a convenient location if you are choosing a bank with a brick-and-mortar location. If you have a financial emergency, you don't want to have to travel a long distance to get cash.See if the bank you are choosing offers other services such as credit cards, loans, and safe deposit boxes. Some banks also offer smartphone apps, which can be useful.Check the fees associated with the accounts you want to open. Banks charge interest on loans as well as monthly maintenance fees, overdraft fees, and wire transfer fees. Some large banks are moving to end overdraft fees in 2022, so that could be an important consideration.


   The Bottom Line  

At the very least, a bank is where you stash your cash until you use it to pay the bills or withdraw money. It can also be the place where you get a loan to buy a car or a mortgage to buy a house. If you're running a small business, it may be where you go to borrow money to expand or improve.



Before choosing a bank, you should make a comparison of the various fees and charges that come with your accounts or any loans you might need. A bit of research and comparison will ensure you find the right fit for safeguarding your money, establishing credit, making payments, applying for loans, receiving funds, and saving money for future needs such as retirement, emergencies, and homebuying.
What Is the Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW)?  

The Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW), or Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate, is a short-term interest rate used as a benchmark for the pricing of Australian dollar derivatives and securities—most notably, floating rate bonds.





Key Takeaways

The Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW) is a short-term interest rate used as a benchmark for the pricing of Australian dollar derivatives and securities, most notably floating rate bonds.The BBSW is an independent reference rate that's used for pricing securities. Fixed income investors use BBSW since it's the benchmark to price floating rate bonds and other securities.There is a risk premium added to the BBSW to compensate for the risk of the securities, as compared with the risk-free rate, which is typically based on government bonds. 


   What Does the BBSW Tell You?  

The BBSW is an independent reference rate that's used for pricing securities. Fixed income investors use BBSW since it's the benchmark to price floating rate bonds and other securities. The BBSW is an average of the bank bill rates supplied by banks for various maturities. In other words, it's the midpoint rate for various bank-eligible securities and is the rate that banks lend to each other in Australia.


   How Is the BBSW Calculated?  

The BBSW is calculated and published by the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), which maintains this rate. The bank bill swap rate is Australia's equivalent of London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and is used as a reference rate in much the same way on an institutional level.



For review, LIBOR is an average value of interest-rates, which is calculated from estimates submitted by the leading global banks on a daily basis. It serves as the first step in calculating interest rates on various loans throughout the world.






The Intercontinental Exchange, the authority responsible for LIBOR, will stop publishing one-week and two-month USD LIBOR after Dec. 31, 2021. All other LIBOR will be discontinued after June 30, 2023.﻿﻿﻿



For instance, a variable floating rate may quote 100 basis points over LIBOR, whereas in Australia, they may use 100 basis points over the BBSW. As stated earlier, the BBSW is an average of the bank bill rates supplied by banks for various maturities.



According to the ASX, the BBSW is not as directly linked to the mortgage or other retail lending indexes as is the LIBOR and other similar benchmarks. Its impact in these areas is thus minimal and limited to its general effects on interest rate levels.


  Risk Premium  

There is a risk premium added to the BBSW to compensate for the risk of the securities as compared to the risk-free rate, which is typically based on government bonds. For example, in the U.S., the risk-free rate is typically the U.S. Treasury since it's backed by the U.S. government.



The credit premium added to the BBSW is typically small, such as five to ten basis points. However, it has exceeded over 300 basis points during the financial crisis of 2008 and the months following.


  Prime Banks and Prime Bank Eligible Securities  

A prime bank is one of several approved financial institutions and includes Australia's four largest banks. The ASX reviews the members of this group annually. Membership requirements, as listed on the ASX, include:



Being an authorized deposit-taking institution (ADI) as defined by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA)Satisfying a credit rating benchmark, specifically Standard & Poor’s short-term rating of A1+ and long-term rating for the senior unsecured debt of at least AAHaving securities eligible for use by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) in open market operations and standing liquidity facilities


   Example of the Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW)  

Let's say that interest rates for bank bills was 4% for the first six months of the year while rates jumped to 5% and remained at 5% for the second half of the year. The average for the year would be 4.5% plus any risk premium. If the risk premium was 15 basis points, the BBSW would be 4.65%, including the average of bank bill rates and with the risk premium added.



Of course, in reality, there are more than two interest rates to average out in calculating the BBSW, but it's typically considered a midpoint of all of those rates.


   The Difference Between SIBOR and BBSW  

The Singapore Interbank Offered Rate, known by its abbreviation SIBOR, is the benchmark interest rate, stated in Singapore dollars, for lending between banks within the Asian market. The SIBOR is a reference rate for lenders and borrowers that participate directly or indirectly in the Asian economy.



The terms of the loans vary from overnight to one year. Notably, the U.K. version, LIBOR, is similar to the SIBOR while the BBSW is the Australian version of LIBOR and SIBOR.


   Limitations of Using the BBSW  

As with any reference rate, the BBSW might not truly reflect the credit risk that exists in the market. Financial benchmarks did not predict the financial crisis of 2008 and the Great Recession that followed. As a result, the risk premium may not always reflect the total market risk and may act as a lagging indicator.
What Is Bank Capital?  

Bank capital is the difference between a bank's assets and its liabilities, and it represents the net worth of the bank or its equity value to investors. The asset portion of a bank's capital includes cash, government securities, and interest-earning loans (e.g., mortgages, letters of credit, and inter-bank loans). The liabilities section of a bank's capital includes loan-loss reserves and any debt it owes. A bank's capital can be thought of as the margin to which creditors are covered if the bank would liquidate its assets.





Key Takeaways

Bank capital is the difference between a bank's assets and its liabilities, and it represents the net worth of the bank or its equity value to investors.Basel I, Basel II, and Basel III standards provide a definition of the regulatory bank capital that market and banking regulators closely monitor.Bank capital is segmented into tiers with Tier 1 capital the primary indicator of a bank's health.Creditors are interested in knowing a bank's bank capital as it is the amount they will be covered by if the bank were to liquidate its assets.


   How Bank Capital Works  

Bank capital represents the value of a bank's equity instruments that can absorb losses and have the lowest priority in payments if the bank liquidates. While bank capital can be defined as the difference between a bank's assets and liabilities, national authorities have their own definition of regulatory capital.



The main banking regulatory framework consists of international standards enacted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision through international accords of Basel I, Basel II, and Basel III. These standards provide a definition of the regulatory bank capital that market and banking regulators closely monitor.



Because banks serve an important role in the economy by collecting savings and channeling them to productive uses through loans, the banking industry and the definition of bank capital are heavily regulated. While each country can have its own requirements, the most recent international banking regulatory accord of Basel III provides a framework for defining regulatory bank capital.


   Regulatory Capital Classifications  

According to Basel III, regulatory bank capital is divided into tiers. These are based on subordination and a bank's ability to absorb losses with a sharp distinction of capital instruments when it is still solvent versus after it goes bankrupt. Common equity tier 1 (CET1) includes the book value of common shares, paid-in capital, and retained earnings less goodwill and any other intangibles. Instruments within CET1 must have the highest subordination and no maturity.


  Tier 1 Capital  

Tier 1 capital includes CET1 plus other instruments that are subordinated to subordinated debt, and have no fixed maturity, no embedded incentive for redemption, and for which a bank can cancel dividends or coupons at any time. Tier 1 capital consists of shareholders' equity and retained earnings. Tier 1 capital is intended to measure a bank's financial health and is used when a bank must absorb losses without ceasing business operations.






From a regulator’s point of view, bank capital (and Tier 1 capital in particular) is the core measure of the financial strength of a bank.



Tier 1 capital is the primary funding source of the bank. Typically, it holds nearly all of the bank's accumulated funds. These funds are generated specifically to support banks when losses are absorbed so that regular business functions do not have to be shut down.



Under Basel III, the minimum tier 1 capital ratio is 8.5%, which is calculated by dividing the bank's tier 1 capital by its total risk-based assets. For example, assume there is a bank with tier 1 capital of $176.263 billion and risk-weighted assets worth $1.243 trillion. The bank's tier 1 capital ratio for the period was $176.263 billion / $1.243 trillion = 14.18%, which meets the minimum Basel III requirement of tier 1 capital of 8.5% and the total capital ratio of 10.5%.﻿﻿


  Tier 2 Capital  

Tier 2 capital consists of unsecured subordinated debt and its stock surplus with an original maturity of fewer than five years minus investments in non-consolidated financial institution subsidiaries under certain circumstances. The total regulatory capital is equal to the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.



Tier 2 capital includes revaluation reserves, hybrid capital instruments, subordinated term debt, general loan-loss reserves, and undisclosed reserves. Tier 2 capital is supplementary capital because it is less reliable than tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital is considered less reliable than Tier 1 capital because it is more difficult to accurately calculate and is composed of assets that are more difficult to liquidate.



Under Basel III, the minimum total capital ratio is 10.5%, there is not a specified requirement for tier 2 capital.


   Book Value of Shareholders' Equity  

The bank capital can be thought of as the book value of shareholders' equity on a bank's balance sheet. Because many banks revalue their financial assets more often than companies in other industries that hold fixed assets at a historical cost, shareholders' equity can serve as a reasonable proxy for the bank capital.



Typical items featured in the book value of shareholders' equity include preferred equity, common stock, paid-in capital, retained earnings, and accumulated comprehensive income. The book value of shareholders' equity is also calculated as the difference between a bank's assets and liabilities.
What Is a Bank Confirmation Letter (BCL)?  

A bank confirmation letter (BCL) is a letter from a bank or financial institution confirming the existence of a loan or a line of credit that has been extended to a borrower. The letter officially vouches for the fact that the borrower—typically an individual, company, or organization—is eligible to borrow a specified amount of funds for a specified purpose.





Key Takeaways

A bank confirmation letter (BCL) validates that a bank has a line of credit in place with one of its customers.The BLC is not a guarantee of payment, but an assurance of the borrower's financial resources to complete a purchase.Bank confirmation letters are typically issued to business customers vouching for their creditworthiness.Bank confirmation letters can also be issued for a company that is entering into a joint venture project with another company.Individuals may request a BCL during the purchase of a home or land in order to secure a mortgage or establish creditworthiness with the seller.


   How a Bank Confirmation Letter (BCL) Works  

A bank confirmation letter's purpose is to assure a third party, generally a seller, that the borrower has access to sufficient financial resources to complete a transaction, such as the purchase of goods. The confirmation letter—sometimes known as a comfort letter—is not a guarantee of payment, but only an assurance of the borrower's financial resources to make payment.



Bank confirmation letters typically require the signature of representatives of the bank or the financial institution who are authorized to issue such correspondence.



Since a letter of confirmation is issued in regard to a particular transaction or project, it's not transferable to a different transaction or project. If the bank's customer decides to enter into a different deal or purchase, the customer usually is required to obtain a new letter of confirmation.



For example, a prospective home buyer decides to buy a different home than the one specified in the bank confirmation letter; a new BCL would be needed. 



Regulations vary from country to country in terms of whether and to what extent a letter of confirmation must state the specific purpose for which a loan or line of credit is being extended to the borrower.


   Common Uses of a Bank Confirmation Letter  

Bank confirmation letters are most commonly prepared for a business customer of the bank, vouching for the existence of a specified line of credit. The letters often serve to reassure sellers of a large number of goods.



They may also be issued for a company that is entering into a joint venture project with another company. While the letter does not guarantee payment or provision of funds, it does provide an assurance of a high probability of the company receiving payment from the bank's customer.






A bank confirmation letter serves to assure all concerned parties in a business transaction that the bank's customer (the borrower) has, or has available, the necessary financial resources to conclude the transaction.



The most common use of a bank confirmation letter by an individual is during the purchase of a home or land. In such cases, the letter provides confirmation to a seller or realtor that the bank's customer is approved for a mortgage up to a specified amount for a proposed purchase.



The letter is not a commitment to buy the property; it is merely a reassurance that the bank’s customer has access to funds to complete a purchase. In most situations, a prospective buyer will not be able to close on a property without having a bank confirmation letter in hand.


   Bank Confirmation Letter FAQs  
  How Do I Get a Bank Confirmation Letter?  

A bank confirmation letter can be received from your bank upon request. The bank will issue the letter with the appropriate signatures and provide it to you.


  What Is a Bank Certification Letter?  

A bank certification letter is a letter issued by a bank that confirms an individual has an account with that bank and the total value of the funds in the account.


  What Is a Bank Verification Letter?  

A bank verification letter is the same as a bank certification letter; a letter from a bank confirming that an individual has an account at that bank with the total value of the funds in the account.


  How Do I Get a Bank Confirmation Letter From My Bank?  

To obtain a bank confirmation letter from your bank you may request in-person at a bank branch from one of the bankers, by a phone call to the bank, and depending on the financial institution, through their online platform.
What Is Bank Credit?  

Bank credit is the amount of credit available to a business or individual from a banking institution in the form of loans. Bank credit, therefore, is the total amount of money a person or business can borrow from a bank or other financial institution.



A borrower's bank credit depends on their ability to repay any loans and the total amount of credit available to lend by the banking institution. Types of bank credit include car loans, personal loans, and mortgages.





Key Takeaways

Bank credit is the total amount of funds a person or business can borrow from a financial institution.Credit approval is determined by a borrower's credit rating, income, collateral, assets, and pre-existing debt.Bank credit may be secured or unsecured. Types of bank credit include credit cards, mortgages, car loans, and business lines of credit. 


   Understanding Bank Credit  

Banks and financial institutions make money from the funds they lend out to their clients. These funds come from the money clients deposit in their checking and savings accounts or invest in certain investment vehicles such as certificates of deposit (CDs). In return for using their services, banks pay clients a small amount of interest on their deposits. As noted, this money is then lent out to others and is known as bank credit.



Bank credit consists of the total amount of combined funds that financial institutions advance to individuals or businesses. It is an agreement between banks and borrowers where banks make loans to borrowers. By extending credit, a bank essentially trusts borrowers to repay the principal balance as well as interest at a later date. Whether someone is approved for credit and how much they receive is based on the assessment of their creditworthiness.



Approval is determined by a borrower’s credit rating and income or other considerations. This includes collateral, assets, or how much debt they already have. There are several ways to ensure approval, including cutting the total debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. An acceptable DTI ratio is 36% or below.



Borrowers are generally encouraged to keep card balances at 20% or less of the credit limit and pay off all late accounts. Banks typically offer credit to borrowers who have adverse credit histories with terms that benefit the banks themselves—higher interest rates, lower credit lines, and more restrictive terms.


   Special Considerations  

Bank credit for individuals has grown considerably as consumers have become used to relying on debt for various needs. This includes financing for large purchases such as homes and automobiles, as well as credit that can be used to make items needed for daily consumption.



Businesses also use bank credit in order to fund their day-to-day operations. Many companies need funding to pay startup costs, to pay for goods and services, or to supplement cash flow. As a result, startups or small businesses use bank credit as short-term financing.


   Types of Bank Credit  

Bank credit comes in two different forms—secured and unsecured. Secured credit or debt is backed by a form of collateral, either in the form of cash or another tangible asset. In the case of a home loan, the property itself acts as collateral. Banks may also require certain borrowers to deposit a cash security in order to get a secured credit card.



Secured credit reduces the amount of risk a bank takes in case the borrower defaults on the loan. Banks can seize the collateral, sell it, and use the proceeds to pay off part or all of the loan. Because it is secured with collateral, this kind of credit tends to have a lower interest rate and more reasonable terms and conditions.






Banks normally charge lower interest rates on secured credit because there's a higher risk of default on unsecured credit vehicles.



Unsecured credit, on the other hand, is not backed by collateral. These kinds of credit vehicles are riskier than secured debt because the chance of default is higher. As such, banks generally charge higher interest rates to lenders for unsecured credit.


   Examples of Bank Credit  

The most common form of bank credit is a credit card. A credit card approval comes with a specific credit limit and annual percentage rate (APR) based on the borrower's credit history. The borrower is allowed to use the card to make purchases. They must pay either the balance in full or the monthly minimum in order to continue borrowing until the credit limit is reached.



Banks also offer mortgage and auto loans to borrowers. These are secured forms of credit that use the asset—the home or the vehicle—as collateral. Borrowers are required to make fixed payments at regular intervals, usually monthly, bi-weekly, or monthly, using a fixed or variable interest rate.



One example of business credit is a business line of credit (LOC). These credit facilities are revolving loans granted to a company. They may be either secured or unsecured and give corporations access to short-term capital.



Credit limits are normally higher than those granted to individual consumers because of the needs of businesses, their creditworthiness, and their ability to repay. Business LOCs are normally subject to annual reviews.




What Is an Example of a Bank Credit?
Examples of bank credit include any money that a bank has loaned out to you. This includes mortgages, auto loans, personal loans, and credit cards. A bank credit is a loan made from a bank to a borrower that needs to be paid back.




What Credit Score Is Needed for a Bank Loan?
The credit score needed for a bank loan will depend on the individual's finances, the size of the loan, and what the loan is being used for. Generally, a credit score of 640 is required or between 600 and 700.




Will a Bank Give a Loan With Bad Credit?
Usually, a bank will give a loan with bad credit. These may not be traditional banks but various other banks or online lenders. When a person has bad credit, receiving a loan will be difficult and costly. Banks will usually charge a higher interest rate, provide a smaller loan size, and may include other stipulations.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank credit allows individuals to purchase high-priced items that would otherwise be difficult to purchase just with cash, such as houses and cars. While some bank credit helps build assets, such as mortgages, certain bank credit, such as credit cards, can be dangerous if not managed correctly. Ensuring your debt-to-income ratio is at an acceptable level will help control any bank credit and contribute to keeping your personal finances in good shape.
What Are Bank Deposits?  

Bank deposits consist of money placed into banking institutions for safekeeping. These deposits are made to deposit accounts such as savings accounts, checking accounts, and money market accounts at financial institutions. The account holder has the right to withdraw deposited funds, as set forth in the terms and conditions governing the account agreement.





Key Takeaways

Saving and checking accounts accept bank deposits.Most bank deposits are insured up to $250,000 by the FDIC. Bank deposits are considered either demand (the bank is required to return your funds on demand) or time deposits (banks ask for a specified time frame for accessing your funds).


   How Bank Deposits Work  

The deposit itself is a liability owed by the bank to the depositor. Bank deposits refer to this liability rather than to the actual funds that have been deposited. When someone opens a bank account and makes a cash deposit, they surrender the legal title to the cash, and it becomes an asset of the bank. In turn, the account is a liability to the bank.


   Types of Bank Deposits  
  Current (Demand Deposit) Account  

A current account, also called a demand deposit account, is a basic checking account. Consumers deposit money and the deposited money can be withdrawn as the account holder desires on demand. These accounts often allow the account holder to withdraw funds using bank cards, checks, or over-the-counter withdrawal slips. In some cases, banks charge monthly fees for current accounts, but they may waive the fee if the account holder meets other requirements such as setting up direct deposit or making a certain number of monthly transfers to a savings account.






There are several different types of deposit accounts including current accounts, savings accounts, call deposit accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit (CDs).


  Savings Accounts  

Savings accounts offer account holders interest on their deposits; however, in some cases, account holders may incur a monthly fee if they do not maintain a set balance or a certain number of deposits. Although savings accounts are not linked to paper checks or cards like current accounts, their funds are relatively easy for account holders to access.



In contrast, a money market account offers slightly higher interest rates than a savings account, but account holders face more limitations on the number of checks or transfers they can make from money market accounts.


  Call Deposit Accounts  

Financial institutions refer to these accounts as interest-bearing checking accounts, Checking Plus, or Advantage Accounts. These accounts combine the features of checking and savings accounts, allowing consumers to easily access their money but also earn interest on their deposits.


  Certificates of Deposit/Time Deposit Accounts  

Like a savings account, a time deposit account is an investment vehicle for consumers. Also known as certificates of deposit (CD), time deposit accounts tend to offer a higher rate of return than traditional savings accounts, but the money must stay in the account for a set period of time. In other countries, time deposit accounts feature alternative names such as term deposits, fixed-term accounts, and savings bonds.


   Deposit Insurance  

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) provides deposit insurance that guarantees the deposits of member banks for at least $250,000 per depositor, per bank. Member banks are required to place signs visible to the public stating that "deposits are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government." Credit unions are insured by the National Credit Union Association (NCUA) for up to $250,000 as well.




How Much Cash Can You Deposit Without Being Questioned?
A person in a trade or a business can deposit only up to $10,000 in a single transaction or multiple transactions without any issue. If depositing more than $10,000, IRS Form 8300 will need to be completed.




Do Banks Report Check Deposits to the IRS?
Banks report check deposits to the IRS if the amount is over $10,000. This doesn't matter if it is a check or cash, a bank is legally required to report this to the IRS.




Are My Bank Deposits Insured?
Yes, bank deposits of up to $250,000 are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Commission (FDIC). The National Credit Union Association (NCUA) insures accounts of up to $250,000 for credit unions.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank deposits are the primary means by which people store their money, mainly in savings accounts, checking accounts, and money market accounts. Bank deposits are a way to safely keep money with the ability to access it at any time in a conveniently.
What Is a Bank Identification Number (BIN)?  

The term bank identification number (BIN) refers to the first four to six numbers on a payment card. This set of numbers identifies the financial institution that issues the card. As such, it matches transactions to the issuer of the card being used. BINs can be found on various payment cards, including credit cards, charge cards, and debit cards.



The BIN system helps financial institutions identify fraudulent or stolen payment cards and can help prevent identity theft.





Key Takeaways

A bank identification number is the first four to six numbers that appear on payment cards. BINs are found on credit cards, charge cards, prepaid cards, debit cards, and gift cards.The BIN helps merchants evaluate and assess their payment card transactions.The number allows merchants to accept multiple forms of payment and allows transactions to be processed faster.BINs can help financial institutions identify fraudulent or stolen cards and prevent identity theft. 


   How Bank Identification Numbers (BINs) Work  

The bank identification number is a numbering system developed by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) to identify institutions that issue payment cards. The ANSI is a nonprofit organization (NPO) that creates business standards in the U.S. while the ISO is an international nongovernmental group that creates standards for various industries.



All payment cards come with a BIN number. This is a set of four to six numbers randomly assigned to debit cards, credit cards, charge cards, gift cards, electronic benefit cards, and other payment cards.



The number is embossed on the front of the card and appears in print just below as well. The first digit specifies the major industry identifier. The digits that follow specify the issuing institution or bank. For example, Visa credit cards start with a four, which falls under the banking and financial category.



When a customer makes an online purchase, the customer enters their card details on the payment page. After submitting the first four to six digits of the card, the online retailer can detect which institution issued the customer’s card including:



The card brand or Major Industry Identifier, such as Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Diner's Club
The card level, such as corporate or platinum
The card type
The issuing bank's country



When the customer initiates a transaction, the issuer receives the authorization request to verify if the card and account are valid and whether the purchase amount is available. This process results in the charge being either approved or denied. Without a BIN, the credit card processing system would be unable to determine the origin of the customer's funds and would be unable to complete the transaction.






The BIN number allows merchants to accept multiple forms of payment and allows faster processing of transactions.


   What Are BINs Used for?  

BINs have a variety of useful applications. The primary purpose is to allow merchants to evaluate and assess payment card transactions.



They also allow merchants to identify originating banks along with their address and phone number, and whether issuing banks are in the same country as the device used to make the transaction. It also verifies the address provided by the customer.



But more importantly, the numbering system helps identify identity theft or potential security breaches by comparing data, such as the address of both the issuing institution and the cardholder.



BINs are also used to increase the speed and efficiency of checkout when paying with a debit or credit card. As a customer swipes their card, the store's payment processor scans the BIN on their card and validates their account with the card issuer. This also determines if the transaction is authorized and compliant with any relevant national laws.






Bank identification numbers are also commonly referred to as issuer identification numbers (IINs).


   Example of a Bank Identification Number (BIN)  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how BINs work. Let's say a customer uses their bank card at the gas pump when they fill up their tank. Once they swipe the card, the system scans the BIN to detect the specific institution that issued the card.



An authorization request is then put on the customer's account. The request is authorized within a few seconds and the transaction is approved if the funds are available or declined if the customer doesn't have enough funds to cover the charge.




What Is a Bank Identification Code?
A bank identification code, which is also known as a bank identifier code, is a special code made up of eight to 11 digits. It is an international standard that identifies a bank or non-financial institution whenever someone makes an international purchase or transaction. A BIC can be connected or non-connected. The former is part of the SWIFT network and is called a SWIFT code, while the latter is generally used for reference only.




How Do You Use a Bank Identification Number?
Consumers generally don't use BINs but it is important to know what they mean. The first digit is the major industry identifier while the remaining digits specify the issuing financial institution.When you make a purchase or transaction, the issuing institution receives a request for authorization. This request attempts to verify the legitimacy of the account and whether the funds are available. If everything checks out, the transaction is approved. If not, the institution declines it.




What Is BIN Scamming?
BIN scamming is a fraud scheme. It occurs when a fraudster calls impersonating someone from your bank, claiming that your account information has been compromised. The scammer may give you information to try to gain your trust. Once you're hooked, they try to confirm the number of your card and begin by asking where you bank.When they have that information, they give you the bank identification number and ask that you confirm the remaining digits on the card along with any other information they can get from you.




Why Are BIN Numbers Important?
BINs allow merchants to accept multiple payments at the same time. They also make payment processing much faster.BINs help banks and financial institutions identify cards that have been compromised or stolen because it provides information about the type of card being used, the type of bank, and other information about the issuing company and cardholder.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank identification numbers are used to identify which payment cards belong to which issuing financial institution. But aside from that, they help facilitate financial transactions and ensure that consumers are protected from identity theft and fraud. That's why it's so important to keep your financial information, including your BIN, confidential.



Remember, your bank will never call or send you an email to inform you that your account information has been compromised. If you ever receive a call, don't engage with the scammer. Instead, hang up and notify your bank. You can also file a complaint with the FTC on the agency's website.
What Is a Bank Rating?  

A bank rating refers to a letter or numerical grade assigned to banks and thrift institutions by rating agencies.



Grades are assigned to provide the public with information about an organization's level of credit risk and financial safety and soundness. They also help bank leaders identify problems within their institution, if any, that need to be addressed.



Many rating agencies use a proprietary formula to determine ratings while others use the CAMELS system to assess financial institutions.





Key Takeaways

A bank rating is a letter or numerical grade given to banks and other financial institutions.Grades are assigned by government agencies and private rating companies.The public can use these ratings as guides to determine the financial safety and soundness of certain financial institutions.Ratings are based on factors like the amount of capital that a bank maintains in reserve and the quality of its assets, as they compare to levels required by industry authorities.


   Understanding Bank Ratings  

Regulatory and credit rating agencies assign ratings to banks in order to provide the public with information about the safety and soundness of a financial institution or its risk of default on debt obligations.



These ratings are issued by regulatory bodies, such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and credit rating agencies like Standard & Poor's (S&P), Moody's, and Fitch. Ratings are updated on a regular basis by bank supervisors, normally every quarter.



Ratings give consumers insight into the health and stability of financial institutions, such as banks and other thrift institutions.



These rankings are also provided to the bank's management team and its board to address any problems, if any. Grades can be based on a series of factors, including the capital amounts, liquidity, asset quality, and the capability of management.



Agencies may use different ratings system. They may consider the workings of such systems proprietary and maintain confidentiality about how ratings are derived.


  FDIC vs. Credit Rating Agencies  

The FDIC is an independent government agency that protects depositors' money in FDIC-insured banks up to a certain amount in the event that a financial institution fails. It regularly examines financial institutions to ensure financial safety and soundness.



Its ratings are different from those provided by credit rating agencies, which focus on the ability of financial institutions and corporations to pay debt obligations on time.



For instance, the FDIC presents ratings related to the level of consumer compliance (with consumer protection and civil rights statutes/regulations) that it finds at each federally regulated commercial bank, savings and loan association, mutual savings bank and credit union.



It also provides ratings relating to the safety and soundness of these financial institutions.


  The CAMELS System  

Government regulators assign ratings based on the CAMELS system, which is used worldwide to provide guidance about the financial soundness of financial institutions. The letters in the acronym CAMELS stand for capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity.



The FDIC Safety and Soundness ratings use a scale of 1 to 5, where:



Rating 1 indicates that a financial institution is sound in all ways. It has the best fundamentals and can withstand economic uncertainties. It also substantially complies with laws and regulations. Moreover, it has the strongest performance and risk management capability.
Rating 2 indicates a financial institution that is fundamentally sound and has only moderate weaknesses. Business fluctuations should pose no problems and compliance with laws and regulations is good.
Institutions with a 3 rating are considered to have moderate to severe weaknesses. They are less able to handle business fluctuations. And they are in less than satisfactory compliance condition. More than normal supervision is required but failure appears unlikely.
An institution with a 4 rating exhibits unsafe and unsound practices and has serious financial or managerial issues that cause unsatisfactory performance. Weaknesses aren't being addressed or resolved. And there may be major noncompliance with laws and regulations. Failure is a possibility. 
A rating of 5 is given to an institution that has extremely unsound practices or conditions and as a result, critically deficient performance. It indicates the greatest need for supervisory concern and immediate outside assistance. These institutions are at great risk of requiring FDIC deposit insurance. Failure is extremely likely.


   Example of How To Interpret Credit Ratings  

Bank customers and investors can visit a credit rating agency site to learn about its ratings structure and the meaning of its individual ratings.



For example, Fitch rates banks with letters and numbers. In September 2022, it assigned Bank of America Corporation a rating of AA- for the category of Long-Term Issuer Default and an F1+ rating for the category of Short-Term Issuer Default.



According to Fitch, "AA ratings denote expectations of very low default risk. They indicate very strong capacity for payment of financial commitments. This capacity is not significantly vulnerable to foreseeable events."



The F1+ rating indicates the lowest default risk and the greatest ability to meet timely payments of financial obligations to financial institutions in the same country. Fitch appends the "+" sign when a bank's liquidity is particularly strong.






Because no rating service is identical or infallible, investors and clients should consult multiple ratings and financial metrics when analyzing their financial institutions.


   Components of CAMELS  

As stated above, many agencies use CAMELS or similar criteria to rate banks. Here is what the CAMELS system helps agencies examine.


  C Is for Capital Adequacy  

Capital adequacy refers to the amount of cash held in reserve by financial institutions compared to what authorities require them to hold. Institutions must also address guidelines and regulatory policies related to interest and dividends.


  A Is for Asset Quality  

This entails an evaluation of credit risk associated with a bank’s interest-bearing assets, such as loans. Rating organizations may also look at whether a bank’s portfolio is appropriately diversified. They may look for policies that limit credit risk and support the efficiency of operations.


  M Is for Management  

By reviewing the management team, an agency wants to examine whether a bank's leaders understand the direction of the institution and have specific plans to move forward in a given regulatory environment. Visualizing what is possible, placing a bank in context with industry trends, and taking risks to grow the business are all required of strong leaders.


  E Is for Earnings  

Bank financial statements are often harder to decipher than those of other companies, given their distinct business models. Banks take deposits from savers and pay interest on some of these accounts.



To generate revenues, they will take deposits, loan them to borrowers, and receive interest on them. Their profits are derived from the spread between the rate they pay for funds and the rate they receive from borrowers.


  L Is for Liquidity  

Ratings take into account liquidity, or a bank having enough assets of a type that can be converted to cash quickly and easily so that short-term financial obligations can be met. Those obligations include withdrawals by customers.


  S Is for Sensitivity  

Sensitivity refers to an institution's risk exposure, for instance market risk. For example, a regulator may examine how a bank monitors its credit concentrations and the industries to which it lends money.




Why Are Credit Ratings Important?
Credit ratings important and useful because they indicate the credit risk that potential investors in the debt issued by an institution may face. Credit ratings project how likely it is that bond investors will be repaid in full and on time for their loans.




Are Ratings Always Accurate?
Ratings are a forward-looking opinion rendered by rating agencies based on a close examination of a financial institution. As a consequence, there's no guarantee that a financial institution with an excellent rating won't default. That's why ratings should be just one of a variety of indicators of financial soundness that investors take into account before making investments.




What Role Do Bank Credit Ratings Play?
Importantly, they can be a source of information and transparency for consumers and investors. Credit ratings are vital to healthy and efficient capital markets. Along with other important financial data, they can provide investors with the confidence to invest, which in the long run can mean ongoing and vital economic activity and wealth building.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank ratings are grades related to aspects of financial institution safety and soundness assigned by government agencies or private rating agencies.



They are produced to ensure that the public has adequate and clear information about the financial institutions that they may open accounts with, invest in, or lend to.
What Are Bank Reserves?  

Bank reserves are the cash minimums that financial institutions must have on hand in order to meet central bank requirements. This is real paper money that must be kept by the bank in a vault on-site or held in its account at the central bank. Cash reserves requirements are intended to ensure that every bank can meet any large and unexpected demand for withdrawals.



In the U.S., the Federal Reserve dictates the amount of cash, called the reserve ratio, that each bank must maintain. Historically, the reserve ratio has ranged from zero to 10% of bank deposits.






Bank reserves are the minimal amounts of cash that banks are required to keep on hand in case of unexpected demand.Excess reserves are the additional cash that a bank keeps on hand and declines to lend out.Bank reserves are kept to prevent the panic that can arise if customers discover that a bank doesn't have enough cash on hand to meet immediate demands.Bank reserves may be kept in a vault on-site or sent to a bigger bank or a regional Federal Reserve bank facility.Historically, the reserve rate for American banks has been set at zero to 10%.


   How Bank Reserves Work  

Bank reserves are primarily an antidote to panic. The Federal Reserve obliges banks to hold a certain amount of cash in reserve so that they never run short and have to refuse a customer's withdrawal, possibly triggering a bank run.



A central bank may also use bank reserve levels as a tool in monetary policy. It can lower the reserve requirement so that banks are free to make a number of new loans and increase economic activity. Or it can require that the banks increase their reserves to slow economic growth.



In recent years, the U.S. Federal Reserve and the central banks of other developed economies have turned to other tactics such as quantitative easing (QE) to achieve the same goals. The central banks in emerging nations such as China continue to rely on raising or lowering bank reserve levels to cool down or heat up their economies.






The Federal Reserve cut the cash reserve minimum to zero percent effective March 26, 2020, as the global pandemic set in.


  Required and Excess Bank Reserves  

Bank reserves are termed either required reserves or excess reserves. The required reserve is the minimum cash the bank can keep on hand. The excess reserve is any cash over the required minimum that the bank is holding in its vault rather than lending out to businesses and consumers.



Banks have little incentive to maintain excess reserves because cash earns no return and may even lose value over time due to inflation. Thus, banks normally minimize their excess reserves, lending the money to clients rather than holding it in their vaults.



In good times, businesses and consumers borrow more and spend more. During recessions, they can't or won't take on additional debt. In downtimes, the banks may also toughen their lending requirements to avoid defaults.






Bank reserves decrease during periods of economic expansion and increase during recessions.


   History of Bank Reserves  

Despite the determined efforts of Alexander Hamilton, among others, the U.S. didn't have a national banking system for more than a couple of short periods of time until 1913, when the Federal Reserve System was created. (By 1863, the country at least had a national currency and a national bank chartering system.)



Until then, banks were chartered and regulated by states, with varying results. Bank collapses and "runs" on banks were common until a full-blown financial panic in 1907 led to calls for reform. The Federal Reserve System was created to oversee the nation's money supply.



Its role was significantly expanded in 1977 when, during a period of double-digit inflation, Congress defined price stability as a national policy goal and directed the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) within the Fed to carry it out.


   Special Considerations  

The required bank reserve follows a formula set by Federal Reserve Board regulations. The formula is based on the total amount deposited in the bank's net transaction accounts.



The figure includes demand deposits, automatic transfer accounts, and share draft accounts. Net transactions are calculated as the total amount in transaction accounts minus funds due from other banks, and minus cash that is in the process of being collected.



The required reserve ratio can also be used by a central bank as a tool to implement monetary policies. Through this ratio, a central bank can influence the amount of money available for borrowing.


  Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)  

In addition to bank reserve requirements set by the Federal Reserve, banks must also follow liquidity requirements set by the Basel Accords. The Basel Accords are a series of banking regulations established by representatives from major global financial centers.






Required bank reserves are determined by the Federal Reserve for each bank based on its net transactions.



After the collapse of the U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers in 2008, the Basel Accords were strengthened in an agreement known as Basel III. This required banks to maintain an appropriate liquidity coverage ratio (LCR). The LCR requires banks and other financial institutions to hold enough cash and liquid assets to cover fund outflows for 30 days.



In the event of a financial crisis, the LCR is designed to help banks keep from having to borrow money from the central bank. The LCR is intended to ensure banks have enough capital on hand to ride out any short-term capital disruptions. It's important to note that even when the Federal Reserve decreases bank reserve minimums, banks must still meet LCR requirements to ensure they have enough cash on hand to meet their short-term obligations.


   Impact of the '08 Crisis  

Until the financial crisis of 2008-2009, banks earned no interest for the cash reserves they held. That changed on Oct. 1, 2008. As part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Federal Reserve began paying banks interest on their reserves. At the same time, the Fed cut interest rates in order to boost demand for loans and get the economy moving again.



The result defied the conventional wisdom that banks would rather lend money out than keep it in the vault. The banks took the cash injected by the Federal Reserve and kept it as excess reserves rather than lending it. They preferred to earn a small but risk-free interest rate over lending it out for a slightly higher but riskier return.



For this reason, the total amount of excess reserves spiked after 2008, despite an unchanged required reserve ratio.




How Much Money Do Banks Need to Keep in Reserve?
The reserve amount has historically ranged from zero to 10%. Since March 26, 2020, it has been zero.




Are Bank Reserves Assets or Liabilities?
A bank's reserves are considered part of its assets and are listed as such in its accounts and annual reports.




How Are Bank Reserves Calculated?
A bank's reserves are calculated by multiplying its total deposits by the reserve ratio. For example, if a bank's deposits total $500 million, and the required reserve is 10%, multiply 500 by 0.10. The bank's required minimum reserve is $50 million.




Where Do Banks Keep Their Reserves?
Some of it is stashed in a vault at the bank. Reserves also may be kept in the bank's account at one of the 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks. Some small banks keep part of their reserves at larger banks and tap into them as needed. This flow of cash between vaults peaks at certain times, like during holiday seasons when consumers withdraw extra cash. Once the demand subsides, the banks ship off some of their excess cash to the nearest Federal Reserve Bank.


   The Bottom Line  

The past banking system that existed in the U.S. before banks' regulation became centralized seems a bit Wild West by today's standards. Each state could charter banks, and small banks popped up and went under regularly. "Runs" on the banks were common.



That changed with the creation of the Federal Reserve System, and among the changes was a requirement that banks hold a minimum amount of cash in reserve to meet demand. Since March 2020, the reserve minimum has been zero, suggesting that the Federal Reserve is comfortable with the level of cash kept voluntarily by the nation's banks combined with the 30-day liquidity coverage ratio required by the Basel Accords.
What Is a Bank Statement?  

A bank statement summarizes all the account's monthly transactions and is typically sent by the bank to the account holder every month in paper or digital form. Bank statements contain checking and savings account information, such as account numbers and a detailed list of deposits and withdrawals. 





Key Takeaways

A bank statement is a list of all transactions for a bank account over a set period, usually monthly.    The statement includes deposits, charges, withdrawals, as well as the beginning and ending balance for the period, along with any interest earned. Account holders generally review their bank statements every month to help keep track of expenses and spending, as well as monitor for any fraudulent charges or mistakes.On average, paper statements cost about $3 per statement, which can add up over the year. 


   How a Bank Statement Works  

A bank issues a bank statement to an account holder that shows the detailed activity in the account. It allows the account holder to see all the transactions processed, typically chronologically.



Most banks send statements to the account holder either monthly or quarterly. Banks and credit unions aren't required to send you a monthly statement unless you made at least one electronic fund transfer that month. Electronic fund transfers include:



ATM and debit card transactionsPayments using online bill paymentDirect depositsAny recurring automatic deduction payments



Your bank can usually change the bank account statement cycle date at any time,






Banks must keep records of any deposit of over $100 for at least five years.


   Types of Bank Statements  

Many banks offer account holders the option of receiving paper or electronic statements, usually via email.


  Electronic Bank Statement  

An electronic statement or e-statement allows account holders to access statements online for downloading or printing. Many recipients of e-statements still print out their statements at home, preferring to keep a permanent record.



Some banks email statements to customers as an attachment. Bank automatic teller machines (ATMs) may be able to print a summarized version of a bank statement, called a transaction history. 



Receiving digital statements is typically free, and opting into digital statements can sometimes spare you monthly account maintenance fees.


  Paper Bank Statements  

Even with the convenience, value, and accessibility of electronic statements, paper statements aren't likely to go away anytime soon. However, receiving paper bank statements may lead to a fee due to the labor and supplies cost of printing and mailing the statement.



Overall, banks charge an average of $3 per statement for this service—which can add up to $36 per year if sent monthly. Credit unions may charge less, on average, with fees as low as $1.50.



Paper statement fees may be waived for people over a certain age, such as 65, or minors under a certain age.


   Benefits of a Bank Statement   

Bank statements are a great tool to help account holders keep track of their finances, identify errors, and recognize spending habits.



You should verify bank accounts regularly—daily, weekly, or monthly—to ensure your records match the bank’s. This helps reduce overdraft fees, errors, and fraud.



Account holders can check for discrepancies while reconciling their bank account with the bank statement. Discrepancies must be reported to the bank promptly. Account holders may have as little as 30 days to dispute errors, but timelines vary by account and state. You should keep monthly statements for at least one year.


   Requirements for a Bank Statement   

Parts of a bank statement include information about:



The bank's address and contact informationAccount informationThe statement dateTotal number of days in the statement period, or the period's beginning and ending datesBeginning and ending balance of the account



Details of each transaction—notably the amount, date, and payee—that took place in the bank account during the period will also be included, such as:



DepositsWithdrawalsChecks paidAny fees or service charges debited from the accountAnnual percentage yield (APY) on interest-earning accountsThe dollar amount of interest earned during the statement period



For example, for the period Sept. 1 through Sept. 30, a bank statement may show a non-interest-bearing checking account with:



A beginning balance: $1,050Total deposits: $3,000Total withdrawals: $1,950Service charges: $0An ending balance of $2,100




What Is an Official Bank Statement?
An official bank statement is typically sent by the bank to the account holder every month, summarizing all the account's transactions during the month. Bank statements contain bank account information, such as account numbers and a detailed list of deposits and withdrawals. 




How Can I Get a Bank Statement?
Typically, you can access your latest bank statements on your financial institution's website. Otherwise, you can request a monthly paper statement be delivered to your home.




What Is the Difference Between a Bank Statement and a Transaction History?
A transaction history displays all bank account transactions for a set period you choose. Typically, a bank statement only covers one month of transactions and may leave recent or pending transactions out.




Can Anyone Check My Bank Statement?
No one can check you bank statement without your permission. Unless you give out your account number, banks do not release information regarding your bank statement to unknown third parties without your consent.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank statements allow you to ensure transactions and deposits align with your expectations and record-keeping. Reviewing your bank statements, you may find that you're paying for subscriptions you don't need or want, or you may find you were charged twice for the same transaction.



You can also review how much interest you're earning in your bank account as a percentage and a dollar amount and whether you might want to switch to a higher-earning checking or savings account. However, be aware of fees for mailed paper statements that can add up over the year.
What Is a Bank Stress Test?  

A bank stress test is an analysis conducted under hypothetical scenarios designed to determine whether a bank has enough capital to withstand a negative economic shock. These scenarios include unfavorable situations, such as a deep recession or a financial market crash. In the United States, banks with $50 billion or more in assets are required to undergo internal stress tests conducted by their own risk management teams and the Federal Reserve.



Bank stress tests were widely put in place after the 2008 financial crisis. Many banks and financial institutions were left severely undercapitalized. The crisis revealed their vulnerability to market crashes and economic downturns. As a result, federal and financial authorities greatly expanded regulatory reporting requirements to focus on the adequacy of capital reserves and internal strategies for managing capital. Banks must regularly determine their solvency and document it.





Key Takeaways

A bank stress test is an analysis to determine whether a bank has enough capital to withstand an economic or financial crisis.Bank stress tests were widely put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.Federal and international financial authorities require all banks of a specific size to conduct stress tests and report the results on a regular basis.Banks that fail their stress tests must take steps to preserve or build up their capital reserves.


   How a Bank Stress Test Works  

Stress tests focus on a few key areas, such as credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk to measure the financial status of banks in a crisis. Using computer simulations, hypothetical scenarios are created using various criteria from the Federal Reserve and International Monetary Fund (IMF). The European Central Bank (ECB) also has strict stress testing requirements covering approximately 70% of the banking institutions across the eurozone. Company-run stress tests are conducted on a semiannual basis and fall under tight reporting deadlines.



All stress tests include a standard set of scenarios that banks might experience. A hypothetical situation could involve a specific disaster in a particular place—a Caribbean hurricane or a war in Northern Africa. Or it could include all of the following happening at the same time: a 10% unemployment rate, a general 15% drop in stocks, and a 30% plunge in home prices. Banks might then use the next nine quarters of projected financials to determine if they have enough capital to make it through the crisis.



Historical scenarios also exist, based on real financial events in the past. The collapse of the tech bubble in 2000, the subprime mortgage meltdown of 2007, and the coronavirus crisis of 2020 are only the most prominent examples. Others include the stock market crash of 1987, the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, and the European sovereign debt crisis between 2010 and 2012.






In 2011, the U.S. instituted regulations that required banks to do a Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), which includes running various stress-test scenarios.


   Benefits of Bank Stress Tests  

The main goal of a stress test is to see whether a bank has the capital to manage itself during tough times. Banks that undergo stress tests are required to publish their results. These results are then released to the public to show how the bank would handle a major economic crisis or a financial disaster.



Regulations require companies that do not pass stress tests to cut their dividend payouts and share buybacks to preserve or build up their capital reserves. That can prevent undercapitalized banks from defaulting and stop a run on the banks before it starts.



Sometimes, a bank gets a conditional pass on a stress test. That means the bank came close to failing and risks being unable to make distributions in the future. Reducing dividends in this way often has a strong negative impact on share prices. Consequently, conditional passes encourage banks to build their reserves before they are forced to cut dividends. Furthermore, banks that pass on a conditional basis have to submit a plan of action.


   Criticism of Bank Stress Tests  

Critics claim that stress tests are often overly demanding. By requiring banks to be able to withstand once-in-a-century financial disruptions, regulators force them to retain too much capital. As a result, there is an underprovision of credit to the private sector. That means creditworthy small businesses and first-time homebuyers may be unable to get loans. Overly strict capital requirements for banks have even been blamed for the relatively slow pace of the economic recovery after 2008.



Critics also claim that bank stress tests lack sufficient transparency. Some banks may retain more capital than necessary, just in case requirements change. The timing of stress testing can sometimes be difficult to predict, which makes banks wary of extending credit during normal fluctuations in business. On the other hand, disclosing too much information could let banks artificially boost reserves in time for tests.


   Real World Examples of Bank Stress Tests  

Many banks fail stress tests in the real world. Even prestigious institutions can stumble. For instance, Santander and Deutsche Bank failed stress tests multiple times.
What Is a Bank Draft?  

A bank draft is a payment that is like a check, but its amount is guaranteed by the issuing bank. The funds are drawn from the requesting payer's account and are then placed in the bank's reserve account until the draft is cashed by the payee. Bank drafts provide the payee with a form of payment that is more secure than personal checks.





Key Takeaways

A bank draft is a payment that is guaranteed by the issuing bank.Bank drafts are often used for larger payments such as a down payment on a home.Banks verify and withdraw funds from the payer's account and deposit them into an internal account, or a reserve account.Banks normally charge a fee for a bank draft.A seller may require a bank draft when they have no relationship with the buyer.







Bank Draft


   How a Bank Draft Works  

You have several options available to make secure, certified payment options including certified checks, wire transfers, and bank drafts. Certified payment options give the payee more security because the funds are guaranteed,



Bank drafts—also called banker's drafts, bank check, or teller's check—are guaranteed by the issuing bank—in many cases, for a large amount of money. You may be required to provide a bank draft when you make payment for a major purchase, such as for a down payment to buy property.



When you request a bank draft, the bank ensures you have enough money in your account to cover the amount requested. It then withdraws the money from your account and moves it to the bank's reserve account.



The bank then prepares the draft with your name and the amount you are paying the third party, the payee. The draft has a serial number, watermarks, and may even have micro-encoding that identifies it as a legitimate form of payment.





Note

Since the funds are already withdrawn from your account when you buy the draft, the issuing bank essentially becomes the payer.



Bank drafts may be required by a seller when they have no relationship with a buyer, when a transaction involves a large sum, or if the seller believes collecting payment may be difficult.



Banks normally charge customers for drafts. This means that in addition to the amount of the draft, the requesting customer may be liable for a fee—usually a flat fee based on the total amount of the draft or a percentage of the draft. Banks may waive the fee for customers who have a good relationship with the institution or for those who are considered high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs).


   How to Cancel a Bank Draft  

Some banks may not put stop payments on drafts once they're issued. That's because the transaction has already taken place, according to their records.



If you want to reverse the transaction, the bank usually requires that you redeem the draft for the full amount. In some cases, it is possible to cancel or replace a lost, stolen, or destroyed draft as long as you have the required documentation.


   Bank Drafts vs. Money Orders  

A bank draft and a money order are both guaranteed for a specific amount and they are both considered a secure method of payment for a payee.



The payer does not need to carry large amounts of money when using a bank draft or money order. However, a bank draft is a check drawn on a bank’s funds after accepting the amount from the issuer’s account, whereas cash is used when purchasing a money order. You can use cash or a debit card to buy a money order, but you cannot use a credit card.






You can only purchase bank drafts from a financial institution like a bank or credit union. You can buy money orders from certified stores and post offices as well as banks.



Since money orders could be used to launder money, you can only purchase a money order in the U.S. for up to $1,000 if you are sending it domestically or for up to $700 if you are sending it internationally. Bank draft amounts can be much higher.



Due to the limited amounts of money orders—and the process banks go through when issuing drafts—money orders typically cost less than bank drafts. Getting a bank draft can be more difficult than getting a money order because you must get the draft from your bank.




What Is the Difference Between a Bank Draft and a Certified Check?
With a bank draft, the funds are withdrawn from your bank account and then the check is made out from the bank, which guarantees it. Your funds are placed into the bank's reserve account. With a certified check, the money is also guaranteed by the bank, but your funds are not withdrawn until the check is cashed. Instead, they are placed on hold.




How Do You Cancel a Bank Draft?
Once a bank draft is given to the person it was intended for, it cannot be cancelled. You, as the purchaser, are responsible for delivering the draft to the payee. If you lose it, you will have to take several steps to get a new draft, which may include providing a surety bond or signing an indemnity.




How Much Does a Bank Draft Cost?
The amount a bank draft will cost will vary by financial institution. Some may charge a flat fee while others may charge a percentage of the check amount. For example, TD Bank charges $9.95 for a bank draft.


   The Bottom Line  

While not ideal for everyday purchases, bank drafts can be very useful payments methods when you are making a major purchase. A seller may request a bank draft for added security to ensure they will receive their funds. You may find you need to provide a bank draft for purchases like a car or a home. In that case, you can pay a fee to a bank to get the draft, which you then provide to the seller.
What Is Bank-Owned Life Insurance (BOLI)?  

Bank-owned life insurance (BOLI) is a product where the bank is the policy beneficiary and usually the owner. Such insurance is used as a tax shelter for the financial institutions, which leverage its tax-free savings provisions as funding mechanisms for employee benefits.



This permanent life insurance policy is often purchased for high-earners and/or board members of a bank, which pays for the policy and benefits after the insured individual's death. Banks do not take out bank-owned life insurance for every employee working for them, but only those key players whose death could cause the bank to lose money.



Bank-owned life insurance is a type of life insurance created to benefit a bank, not the insured or their beneficiaries. Bank employees may be offered a traditional at-work life insurance plan to cover their loved ones if they die as part of a workplace benefits package.





Key Takeaways

Bank-owned life insurance (BOLI) is a form of life insurance used in the banking industry.Banks use it as a tax shelter and to fund employee benefits.A significant concern for banks is the credit quality of the BOLI issuer.The policy is bought on an executive’s life and tax-free benefits are paid on the executive's death.Even if an employee covered by BOLI leaves or is terminated, the policy on them remains in place.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   How Bank-Owned Life Insurance (BOLI) Works  

Banks primarily use BOLI contracts to fund employee benefits lower than they might otherwise pay. In a typical scenario, the bank sets up the contract and then makes payments into a specialized fund set aside as the insurance trust. The policy is bought on an executive's life.



All employee benefits that need to be paid to particular employees covered under the plan are paid out from this fund. All premiums paid into the fund and capital appreciation are tax-free for the bank. Therefore, banks can use the BOLI system to fund employee benefits tax-free.



As the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) explains, banks are allowed to purchase BOLI policies "in connection with employee compensation and benefit plans, key person insurance, insurance to recover the cost of providing pre-and post-retirement employee benefits, insurance on borrowers, and insurance is taken as security for loans." In addition, OCC may also allow for other uses, it says, "on a case-by-case basis."






Banks cannot purchase life insurance for rank-and-file employees. Institutions can only take out policies for employees for whom there is an “insurable interest,” meaning the bank would suffer financially if the employee dies. This often means highly paid employees, or the top 25% of staff. Also, the insured employee must agree to the policy.


   3 Types of BOLI Accounts  

There are three types (general, hybrid, and separate) of BOLI insurance available to banks and corporations. General is the most common (and oldest) product of the three types. When banks invest in a general account product, it is mainly invested in bonds and real estate, the carrier of this type of insurance has a credit rating, which can change.



The bank's investment deposit is used as a part of the carrier's general account. The details of investments in a general account are shared in broad strokes rather than the in-depth view given with a separate account.



A separate account allows the insurance provider to separate the general account holdings into investments managed by fund managers. These managers provide the bank with details of the bank's portfolio, and the credit rating of these accounts uses a yield-to-worst ratio. Still, there isn't any guaranteed minimum credit rating as a general account.



A hybrid account combines aspects of a general and a separate type of BOLI. With a hybrid, banks and corporations receive a guaranteed credit rating and detailed information about investment holdings, like in a separate account. Separate and hybrid insurance are also isolated from creditors (unlike general insurance), which protects banks who take these types of BOLI out on their employees.






Bank-owned life insurance is a kind of tax shelter providing funds (tax-free) to the bank to offset costs.


   Pros and Cons of Bank-Owned Life Insurance  

According to BoliColi.com, which helps manage corporate-owned and bank-owned life insurance portfolios, this type of insurance was traditionally combined with benefit plans for new senior executives but they are becoming more common as more banks purchase policies to offset employee benefit expenses.


  Tax Benefits  

As noted, the advantages of BOLI included its tax favorability and the ability to generate earnings that offset the costs associated with employee benefits programs. Another pro is that even if an employee leaves or is fired from the bank, the insurance policy stays in place, so funds from the policy can help the bank continue to pay for other employee benefits.


  Surrendered Policies  

There can be downsides. For example, if a contract is surrendered because they can't keep up with the premiums, that policy will be taxed, and there is a 10% penalty on any gains. In addition, the credit quality of a BOLI insurance carrier's credit rating is essential.



In addition, because BOLI is an illiquid asset if a bank purchases a policy from a company with a poor credit rating, it exposes the bank to risk, especially if it isn't purchased as a single-premium policy yields the most significant returns.




Why Do Banks Purchase BOLI?
BOLI offers banks a tax shelter and a way for them to fund benefit plans. Premiums paid into the fund, in addition to all capital appreciation, are tax free for the bank. Therefore, banks can use the BOLI system to fund employee benefits on a tax-free basis.




When Are Benefits Paid?
Since the policy is taken out on an executive's life, tax-free death benefits are paid when the executive dies.




Can I Buy Bank-Owned Life Insurance?
No. Individuals cannot purchase bank-owned life insurance for themselves. It is only for banks and corporations, who purchase it for specific employees, often executives.




How Much BOLI Do Banks Own?
According to data reported to the FDIC, the total cash surrender value of all policies held by banks was $202.4 billion as of June 30, 2023.


   The Bottom Line  

Banks using BOLI as a tax shelter and vehicle for funding benefit plans for all employees are on the rise. This permanent life insurance policy allows banks to cover high-value employees and board members and use the funds to offset benefit programs.



BOLI can help banks compete with other employers' benefit plans, and even if a BOLI-covered employee leaves or is terminated, the policy stays within the company. As long as banks use reputable insurers with strong credit standards, the use of BOLI can be beneficial for the employees and the bank itself.
What Is a Banker's Acceptance (BA)?  

Banker's acceptance (BA) is a negotiable piece of paper that functions like a post-dated check. A bank, rather than an account holder, guarantees the payment. Banker's acceptances (also known as bills of exchange) are used by companies as a relatively safe form of payment for large transactions. BAs can also be short-term debt instruments, similar to U.S. Treasury bills, that trade at a discount to face value in the money markets.





Key Takeaways

The banker's acceptance is a form of payment that is guaranteed by a bank rather than an individual account holder.The bank guarantees payment at a later time. BAs are most frequently used in international trade to finalize transactions with relatively little risk to either party.Banker's acceptances are traded at a discount in the secondary money markets.Thus, unlike a post-dated check, BAs can be investments that are traded, generally at a discounted price (similar to Treasury bills). 












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding Banker's Acceptance  

For the company that issues it, a banker's acceptance is a way to pay for a purchase without borrowing to do so. For the company that receives it, the bill is a guaranteed form of payment. A banker's acceptance requires the bank to pay the holder a set amount of money on a set date.



BAs are most commonly issued 90 days before the date of maturity but can mature at any later date from one to 180 days. They are typically issued in multiples of $100,000.



BAs are issued at a discount to their face value. Thus, like a bond, they earn a return. They also can be traded like bonds in the secondary money market. There is no penalty for cashing them in early, except for the lost interest that would have been earned had they been held until their maturity dates.


   History of Banker’s Acceptance  

Banker’s acceptances have been around since the 12th century. Just like now, BAs were used as a method of facilitating trade. In the 18th and 19th centuries, BAs started to become an actively traded market in London. 



The U.S. launched the Federal Reserve in the early 1900s to help create banker’s acceptances that compete with London’s. The Fed’s goal was to boost U.S. trade and it was given the authority to purchase certain BAs. While the Fed still buys government bonds, it no longer buys BAs.






If you are looking to obtain a BA, go to a bank that you have a good working relationship with. (Note that not all banks offer BAs.)


   Banker’s Acceptance as Checks  

Banker's acceptances, like certified checks, are a relatively safe form of payment for both sides of a transaction. The money owed is guaranteed to be paid on the date specified on the bill.



The use of BAs is most common in international trade transactions. A buyer with an importing business can issue a banker’s acceptance with a date after a shipment is due to be delivered, and the seller with an exporting business will have the payment instrument in hand before finalizing the shipment.



The person who is paid with a banker's acceptance may hold onto it until its maturity date in order to receive its full value or can sell it immediately at a discount to face value.






Banker's acceptances are a relatively safe form of payment for both sides of a transaction.



Unlike a regular check, a banker’s acceptance relies on the creditworthiness of the banking institution rather than the individual or business that issues it. The bank requires that the issuer meet its credit eligibility requirements, typically including a deposit sufficient to cover the banker’s acceptance.


   Banker’s Acceptance as Investments  

Banks and institutional investors trade banker's acceptances on the secondary market before they reach maturity. The strategy is similar to that used in trading zero-coupon bonds. The BA is sold below face value, at a discount determined by the length of time before the maturity date.



Banker's acceptances are considered to be relatively safe investments because the bank and the borrower are liable for the amount that is due when the instrument matures.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Banker’s Acceptance  

One of the key advantages of a banker’s acceptances is it’s backed by a financial institution (i.e., protected against default). This gives the seller assurances related to payment. Meanwhile, buyers are afforded the ability to make purchases in a timely manner and not worry about having to make payments in advance. 



Now, the key risk is that the financial institution will have to make good on the promised payment. This is the key risk for the bank. To help hedge against this, the bank may require the buyer to post collateral.





Pros

It provides the seller assurances against default.
The buyer doesn’t have to prepay or pay in advance for goods .
It provides the ability to purchase and sell goods in a timely manner.
It has a relatively low cost compared to the hedge or benefit provided.



Cons

The bank may require the buyer to post collateral before issuing the banker’s acceptance.
The buyer may default, forcing the financial institution to make the payment.





   Banker’s Acceptance FAQs  
  How Does a Banker's Acceptance Work?  

For a banker’s acceptance, the importer will seek to make a purchase from an exporter (generally in another country). The exporter wants assurance of payment, but the importer also wants assurance that the seller can deliver. Banker’s acceptance is a form of payment backed by a bank that eliminates transaction-related risks for the importer and exporter.


  Is a Banker's Acceptance a Money Market Instrument?  

Banker's acceptances are money market instruments and, like most money markets, are relatively safe and liquid, particularly when the paying bank enjoys a strong credit rating.


  What Is a Banker's Acceptance Rate?  

Banker’s acceptances are assumed to be safe investments as they’re backed by the bank, which means they often trade at a discount to face value. The banker’s acceptance rate is the market rate at which these instruments trade. It’s the return an investor would receive if they purchased today and held until the payment date.


  What Is the Difference Between Banker’s Acceptance and Commercial Paper?  

Commercial paper is a promissory note that pays a fixed rate. It’s unsecured and can be for a few days or years. Commercial paper is generally used to cover short-term obligations (such as the cost for a new project) or short-term receivables. BAs are also short-term promissory notes, although they have the unconditional guarantee of a bank and are often used for trade.


   The Bottom Line  

From an investment perspective, banker’s acceptances are relatively safe investments being money market investments and inline with T-bills from a risk-return perspective. For importers and exporters, BAs help boost trade by reducing transaction-related risks.
What Is a Bank Guarantee?  

A bank guarantee is a financial backstop offered by a financial institution promising to cover a financial obligation if one party in a transaction fails to hold up their end of a contract. Generally used outside the United States, a bank guarantee enables the bank's client to acquire goods, buy equipment, or perform international trade. If the client fails to settle a debt or deliver promised goods, the bank will cover it.





Key Takeaways

A bank guarantee is a promise by a financial institution to meet the liabilities of a business or individual if they don't fulfill their obligations in a contractual transaction.Bank guarantees are largely used outside the U.S. and are similar to American standby letters of credit.Bank guarantees are mostly seen in international business transactions, although they may also individuals may need a guarantee to rent property in some countries. Different types of guarantees include a performance bond guarantee, an advance payment guarantee, a warrantee bond guarantee, and a rental guarantee.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Bank Guarantees  

A bank guarantee is a promise by a lending institution to cover a loss if a business transaction doesn't unfold as planned. The buyer receives compensation if a party doesn't deliver goods or services as agreed or fulfill contractual obligations.



Non-U.S. financial institutions and intermediaries in countries such as Spain, the U.K., and elsewhere may more heavily rely on bank guarantees in commercial transactions. But sometimes, a bank guarantee may help an individual rent a property.



A bank guarantee may also be called a standby letter of credit or be referred to as a bond. Bank guarantees from a reputable institution can help you establish business relationships, increase your access to cash flow and capital, protect your business from losses, and set you up for international opportunities.



Another type of guarantee is the loan guarantee from the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. This guarantees creditworthy foreign buyers of financing for U.S. capital goods and services purchases. U.S. companies receive payment when the product is shipped from the U.S. to a foreign buyer.






The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) warns investors to be wary of secretive "high-yield" investments marketed as as a "Prime Bank" program or "Prime World Bank" financial instrument. These fraudulent investments may involve legitimate-sounding language such as "bank guarantee" or "standby letter of credit."


   Examples of Bank Guarantees  

Here are several kinds of bank guarantees that cover various risks, including:



Performance bond guarantee: Serves as collateral for the buyer’s costs if services or goods are not provided as agreed in the contract.
Advance payment guarantee: Acts as collateral for reimbursing the buyer's advance payment if the seller does not supply the specified goods per the contract.
Warranty bond guarantee: Serves as collateral, ensuring ordered goods are delivered as agreed.
Payment guarantee: Assures a seller the purchase price is paid on a set date.
Rental guarantee: Serves as collateral for rental agreement payments.



For example, the World Bank offers a bank guarantee program for projects. These guarantees provide commercial lenders security against payment default or failure to meet performance obligations by governments.




What Are the Different Types of Bank Guarantees?
Two key types of bank guarantees include a a tender bank guarantee (bid bond) and a performance guarantee. Tender bank guarantees reimburses the buyer (who has already supplied some funding) if you, the supplier, don't sign a contract or fulfill conditions. Performance-based guarantees are for obligations laid out in a contract, such as particular tasks.




What Is the Financial Instrument for a Bank Guarantee?
The financial instrument used in a bank guarantee is called a banker's acceptance.




Do Banks in the U.S. Issue Bank Guarantees?
Banks in the U.S. often do not issue bank guarantees. Instead, they issue standby letters of credit serving the same purpose.


   Bottom Line  

Guarantees help protect international trade relationships by mitigating risks if a contract falls through, suppliers don't perform according to a contract's terms, or a buyer won't pay for goods. While bank guarantees are not common in the U.S., you should be able to get a similar guarantee via a standby letter of credit.
What Is a Bank Reconciliation Statement?  

A company prepares a bank reconciliation statement to compare the balance in its accounting records with its bank account balance. The statement shows reasons for any discrepancies between the two. A bank reconciliation statement is a valuable internal tool that can affect tax and financial reporting and detect errors and intentional fraud.





Key Takeaways

A bank reconciliation statement summarizes banking and business activity, comparing the bank's account balance with internal financial records.Bank reconciliation statements confirm that payments have been processed and cash collections have been deposited into a bank account.These statements can help uncover or prevent fraud at a company, as well as identify accidental discrepancies.After all adjustments, the balance on a bank reconciliation statement should equal the ending balance of the bank account.


   Understanding the Bank Reconciliation Statement  

Reconciliation is the process of comparing two different records. A bank reconciliation statement can help you identify differences between your company’s bank and book balances.



In this case, the reconciliation includes the deposits, withdrawals, and other activities affecting a bank account for a specific period. Any discrepancies lead to making necessary adjustments or corrections.



Here are other uses of a bank reconciliation statement. 


  Identifying Accounting Errors  

Bank reconciliation statements ensure that payments were processed and cash collections were deposited into the bank. Bank reconciliation statements are often used to catch simple errors, duplications, and accidental discrepancies. Some mistakes could adversely affect financial reporting and tax reporting. Without reconciling, companies may pay too much or too little in taxes.


  Detecting Fraud   

Bank reconciliation statements are effective tools for detecting fraud, theft, and loss. For example, if a check is altered, the payment made for that check will be larger than you anticipate. If you notice this while reconciling your bank accounts, you can take measures to halt the fraud and recover your money.



However, you typically only have a limited period, such as 30 days from the statement date, to catch and request correction of errors.


  Managing Risk  

Financial statements show the health of a company or entity for a specific period or point in time. Accurate financial statements allow investors to make informed decisions. The statements give companies clear pictures of their cash flows, which can help with organizational planning and making critical business decisions.






An accountant typically processes reconciliation statements at least once a month for a company. Software that automates bank reconciliation can help reduce errors associated with manual processing. Make sure that any staff or employee reconciling bank accounts doesn't also have access to funds through means such as deposits, accounts payable, or electronic fund transfer authorization.


   How To Do a Bank Reconciliation  

To successfully complete your bank reconciliation, you’ll need your bank statements for the current and previous months as well as your company ledger. An online template can help guide you, but a simple spreadsheet is just as effective.



Here are the basic steps to follow:



Gather a copy of the bank statement for the period and your accounting system or company ledger list of all payments, deposits, and cash account balances from the accounting system.
Start with your closing balance for the prior month. That will be your starting number.
Examine each bank statement item leaving the bank account, such as checks, transfers, and bank fees. Each statement item should be on your leger or system list. Ensure that your deposits and cleared checks match the amounts the bank recorded. If not, record the missing or incorrect item. 
Review bank transaction items on the statement that add to the account, such as interest, deposits, transfers, and bank adjustments. Each positive transaction should also be reflected in your ledger or accounting system. If not, record the missing item. 
At the end of your bank reconciliation statement process, the accounting record’s balance (after making adjustments) should equal the bank statement balance.
If there are further discrepancies, investigate what might have been missed in your recording or errors that may have been made at the bank.






If you find a large-dollar-amount discrepancy between bank and company ledgers, your current bank statement may include a significant deposit or withdrawal from the previous month.


   Adjusting Discrepancies Between Books and Bank  

The cash account balance in an entity’s financial records may also require adjusting in some specific circumstances, if you find discrepancies with the bank statement. In these cases, journal entries record any adjustment to the book’s balance. After fee and interest adjustments are made, the book balance should equal the ending balance of the bank account.


  Fees  

A bank may charge an account maintenance fee, typically withdrawn and processed automatically from the bank account. When preparing a bank reconciliation statement, a journal entry is prepared to account for fees deducted.


  Interest Earned  

Interest earned also requires an adjustment. Interest is automatically deposited into a bank account after a certain period of time. So the company’s accountant prepares an entry increasing the cash currently shown in the financial records. After adjustments are made, the book balance should equal the ending balance of the bank account.


  Example of a Bank Reconciliation Statement  

Bank reconciliation statements compare transactions from financial records with those on a bank statement. Where there are discrepancies, companies can identify and correct the source of errors.



For example, say ABC Holding Co. recorded an ending balance of $500,000 on its records. However, its bank statement shows an ending balance of $520,000. After careful investigation, ABC Holding found that a vendor’s check for $20,000 hadn't been presented to the bank. It also missed two $25 fees for service charges and non-sufficient funds (NSF) checks during the month.



The reconciliation statement allows the accountant to catch these errors each month. The company can now take steps to rectify the mistakes and balance its statements. Here's an example in the table below.











Sample Bank Reconciliation Statement




Bank Balance
 $519,950
 Book Balance
 $500,000


Add: Deposits in transit, items recorded on book balance 
 
Add: Interest revenue, other income recorded on bank balance
 


Less: Outstanding checks, items recorded on book balance 
  $20,000
Less: Service charges, fees recorded on bank balance
   $50


Adjusted bank balance
 $499,950
Adjusted book balance
 $499,950







What Are Common Problems With Bank Reconciliations?
Infrequent reconciliations make it difficult to address problems with fraud or errors when they first arise, as the needed information may not be readily available. Also, when transactions aren't recorded promptly and bank fees and charges are applied, it can cause mismatches in the company's accounting records.




Where Do Non-Sufficient Funds (NSF) Checks Go on a Bank Reconciliation?
Non-sufficient funds (NSF) checks are recorded as an adjusted book-balance line item on the bank reconciliation statement. The NSF amount deducted from its balance.




Why Is Bank Reconciliation Important?
Bank reconciliation helps to identify errors that can affect estimated tax payments and financial reporting. It also helps to identify, stop, and prevent fraud.




How Often Should You Do a Bank Reconciliation?
To quickly identify and address errors, reconciling bank statements should be done by companies or individuals at least monthly. They also can be done as frequently as statements are generated, such as daily or weekly.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank reconciliation statements are tools companies and accountants use to detect errors, omissions, and fraud in a financial account. Bank reconciliation is a simple and invaluable process to help manage cash flows.



When done frequently, reconciliation statements help companies identify cash flow errors, present accurate information to investors, and plan and pay taxes correctly. They can also be used to identify fraud before serious damage occurs and can prevent errors from compounding.
What Is a Bank Run?  

A bank run is when the customers of a bank or other financial institution withdraw their deposits at the same time over fears about the bank's solvency. As more people withdraw their funds, the probability of default increases, which, in turn, can cause more people to withdraw their deposits. In extreme cases, the bank's reserves may not be sufficient to cover the withdrawals.





Key Takeaways

A bank run occurs when a large group of depositors withdraw their money from banks at the same time.Customers in bank runs typically withdraw money based on fears that the institution will become insolvent.With more people withdrawing money, banks will use up their cash reserves and can end up in default.Bank runs have occurred throughout history, including during the Great Depression and the 2008 financial crisis.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was established in 1933 to try to reduce the occurrence of bank runs.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How Bank Runs Work  

Bank runs happen when a large number of people start making withdrawals from a bank because they fear the institution will run out of money. A bank run is typically the result of panic rather than true insolvency. However, a bank run triggered by fear can push a bank into bankruptcy.



Most institutions have a set limit on how much they store in their vaults daily. These limits are set based on need and security reasons. Many banks also keep specific amounts in reserve at the nation's central bank to minimize the risks related to bank runs and other issues. In fact, the Federal Reserve pays them interest to do so, a program which it calls Interest on Reserve Balances (IORB). This program gives banks an incentive to keep deposits in reserve.



Because banks typically keep only a small percentage of deposits as cash on hand, they must increase their cash position to meet the withdrawal demands of their customers. One method a bank uses to increase cash on hand is to sell assets—sometimes at significantly lower prices than if it did not have to sell quickly. Losses taken when selling assets at lower prices can cause customer concerns, which can trigger withdrawals.


   Examples of Bank Runs  

In modern history, bank runs are often associated with the Great Depression. In the wake of the 1929 stock market crash, American depositors panicked and began withdrawing their deposits. A succession of bank runs on thousands of banks occurred in the early 1930s, creating a domino effect on the economy.



More recent examples of significant bank runs include those on Silicon Valley Bank, Washington Mutual Bank (WaMu), and Wachovia Bank.


  Silicon Valley Bank  

The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank in March 2023 was a result of a bank run caused by venture capitalists. The bank reported that it needed $2.25 billion to shore up its balance sheet, and by the end of the following business day, customers had withdrawn about $42 billion. As a result, regulators closed the bank and took control of its assets.



Silicon Valley Bank had last reported $209 billion in assets as of the fourth quarter of 2022, making it the second-largest bank failure of all time.


  Washington Mutual (WaMu)  

Washington Mutual (WaMu), which had about $310 billion in assets at the time of its failure in 2008, was the largest bank failure in the U.S. Its collapse was caused by several factors, including a poor housing market and rapid expansion. The bank also suffered a run when customers withdrew $16.7 billion within two weeks.



JPMorgan Chase eventually bought Washington Mutual for $1.9 billion.


  Wachovia Bank  

Wachovia Bank was also shuttered after depositors withdrew more than $15 billion over a two-week period after Wachovia reported negative earnings results. Wachovia was eventually acquired by Wells Fargo for $15 billion.



Much of the withdrawals at Wachovia were concentrated among commercial accounts with balances above the limit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), drawing those balances down to just below the FDIC limit.






The failure of large investment banks like Lehman Brothers, AIG, and Bear Stearns was not the result of a bank run. Instead, these bank failures resulted from a credit and liquidity crisis involving derivatives, asset-backed securities, and poor risk management practices.


   Preventing Bank Runs  

In response to the turmoil of the 1930s, governments took several steps to diminish the risk of future bank runs. Perhaps the biggest was establishing reserve requirements, which mandated that banks had to maintain a certain percentage of total deposits on hand as cash. This requirement has since been reduced to zero by the Federal Reserve because other monetary policy tools have been created.



Additionally, the U.S. Congress established the FDIC in 1933 to insure bank deposits in response to the many bank failures in the preceding years. Its mission is to maintain stability and public confidence in the U.S. financial system.



The FDIC provides insurance based on ownership category. There are several FDIC-recognized ownership categories, but generally, each depositor is insured for up to $250,000 in each different category.






In some cases, the FDIC may extend its coverage. For example, when Silicon Valley Bank failed in 2023, the FDIC used funds from the Deposit Insurance Fund to fully reimburse depositors. The money in the fund is furnished by quarterly fees assessed on banks.



In some cases, banks need to take a more proactive approach if faced with the threat of a bank run. For example, they may temporarily close to prevent people from withdrawing their money en masse. Franklin D. Roosevelt implemented another solution when he declared a bank holiday in 1933, calling for inspections to ensure banks' solvency so they could continue operating.




What Is a Silent Bank Run?
A silent bank run is when depositors withdraw funds electronically in large volumes without physically entering the bank. Silent bank runs are similar to other bank runs, except funds are withdrawn via ACH transfers, wire transfers, and other methods that do not require physical withdrawals of cash.




What Is Meant by a Run on the Bank?
This happens when people try to withdraw all of their funds for fear of a bank collapse. When this is done simultaneously by many depositors, the bank can run out of cash, causing it to become insolvent.




Why Is a Bank Run Bad?
Bank runs can bring down banks and cause a more systemic financial crisis. A bank usually only has a limited amount of cash on hand that is not the same as its overall deposits. So, if too many customers demand their money, the bank simply won't have enough to return to their depositors.


   The Bottom Line  

A bank run is when customers flock to banks, either physically or online, to withdraw their funds because they lose confidence in the bank. In extreme cases, they can cause the collapse of a bank, as a bank run did in 2023 when Silicon Valley Bank became insolvent.



To reduce your risk of losing money in a bank run, you can keep your deposit amounts under the FDIC-insured limit of $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank. If you need to deposit more funds, you can open an account at another bank and receive the same protection.



Correction—July 29, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that FDIC coverage only amounted to $250,000 per depositor per institution. This was corrected to include ownership categories, which can raise the insured amount depending on the category.
Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   What Is Bankruptcy?  

Bankruptcy is a legal proceeding initiated when a person or business is unable to repay outstanding debts or obligations. It offers a fresh start for people who can no longer afford to pay their bills.



The bankruptcy process begins with a petition filed by the debtor, which is most common, or on behalf of creditors, which is less common. All of the debtor's assets are measured and evaluated, and the assets may be used to repay a portion of the outstanding debt.





Key Takeaways

Bankruptcy is a legal proceeding carried out to free individuals or businesses from their debts.Creditors still have an opportunity for repayment with the bankruptcy process.Bankruptcy is handled in federal courts, and rules are outlined in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.A bankruptcy will stay on your credit reports for a number of years and make it more difficult to borrow in the future.


   How Bankruptcy Works  

Bankruptcy offers an individual or business a chance to start fresh by forgiving debts that they can't pay. Meanwhile, creditors have a chance to get some repayment based on the individual's or business's assets available for liquidation.



In theory, the ability to file for bankruptcy benefits the overall economy by allowing people and companies a second chance to gain access to credit. It can also help creditors regain a portion of debt repayment.



All bankruptcy cases in the United States go through federal courts. A bankruptcy judge makes decisions, including whether a debtor is eligible to file and whether they should be discharged of their debts.



Administration over bankruptcy cases is often handled by a trustee, an officer appointed by the United States Trustee Program of the Department of Justice, to represent the debtor's estate in the proceeding. The debtor and the judge usually have no contact unless there is some objection made in the case by a creditor. When bankruptcy proceedings are complete, the debtor is relieved of the debt obligations.


   What Are the Types of Bankruptcy Filings?  

Bankruptcy filings in the United States are categorized by which chapter of the Bankruptcy Code applies. For example, Chapter 7 involves the liquidation of assets, Chapter 11 deals with company or individual reorganizations, and Chapter 13 arranges for debt repayment with lowered debt covenants or specific payment plans.






Bankruptcy filing costs vary, depending on the type of bankruptcy, the complexity of the case, and other factors.


  Chapter 7 Bankruptcy  

Most people file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which allows you to dispose of unsecured debts, such as credit card balances and medical bills.



You must liquidate the property to repay some or all of their unsecured debts if you have nonexempt assets, such as family heirlooms (collections with high valuations, like coin or stamp collections), second homes, or investments like stocks or bonds.



When you file Chapter 7 bankruptcy, you essentially sell off your assets to clear debt. People who have no valuable assets and only exempt property—such as household goods, clothing, tools for their trades, and a personal vehicle worth up to a certain value—may end up repaying no part of their unsecured debt.


  Chapter 11 Bankruptcy  

Businesses often file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, with the goal of reorganizing and remaining in business. Filing Chapter 11 bankruptcy allows a company the opportunity to create plans for profitability, cut costs, and find new ways to increase revenue. Their preferred stockholders, if any, may still receive payments, though common stockholders will be last in line.



For example, a housekeeping business filing Chapter 11 bankruptcy might increase its rates slightly and offer more services to become profitable. Chapter 11 bankruptcy allows the business to continue conducting its business activities without interruption while working on a debt repayment plan under the court's supervision. In rare cases, individuals can also file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.


  Chapter 13 Bankruptcy  

Individuals who make too much money to qualify for Chapter 7 bankruptcy may file under Chapter 13, also known as a wage earner's plan. It allows individuals—as well as businesses, with consistent income—to create workable debt repayment plans.



The repayment plans are commonly in installments over the course of a three- to five-year period. In exchange for repaying their creditors, the courts allow these debtors to keep all of their property, including otherwise nonexempt property.


  Other Bankruptcy Filings  

While Chapter 7, Chapter 11, and Chapter 13 are the most common bankruptcy proceedings, there are several other types:



Chapter 9 bankruptcy is available to financially distressed municipalities, including cities, towns, villages, counties, and school districts. Under Chapter 9, municipalities do not have to liquidate assets to repay their debts but are instead allowed to develop a plan for repaying them over time.
Chapter 10 bankruptcy, which effectively ended in 1978, was a form of corporate bankruptcy that has been supplanted by Chapter 11.
Chapter 12 bankruptcy provides relief to family farms and fisheries. They are allowed to maintain their businesses while working out a plan to repay their debts.
Chapter 15 bankruptcy was added to the law in 2005 to deal with cross-border cases, which involve debtors, assets, creditors, and other parties that may be in more than one country. This type of petition is usually filed in the debtor's home country.


   Being Discharged From Bankruptcy  

When a debtor receives a discharge order, they are no longer legally required to pay the debts specified in the order. What's more, any creditor listed on the discharge order cannot legally undertake any type of collection activity (such as making phone calls or sending letters) against the debtor once the discharge order is in force.



However, not all debts qualify to be discharged. Some of these include tax claims, anything that was not listed by the debtor, child support or alimony payments, personal injury debts, and debts to the government. In addition, any secured creditor can still enforce a lien against property owned by the debtor, provided that the lien is still valid.



Debtors do not necessarily have the right to a discharge. When a petition for bankruptcy has been filed in court, creditors receive a notice and can object if they choose to do so. If they do, they will need to file a complaint in court before the deadline. This leads to the filing of an adversary proceeding to recover money owed or enforce a lien.






The discharge from Chapter 7 is usually granted about four months after the debtor files to petition for bankruptcy. For any other type of bankruptcy, the discharge can occur when it becomes practical.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Bankruptcy  

Declaring bankruptcy can help relieve you of your legal obligation to pay your debts and save your home, business, or ability to function financially, depending on which kind of bankruptcy petition you file. But it also will likely lower your credit rating, making it more difficult to get a loan, mortgage, credit card, buy a home or business, or rent an apartment.



If you're trying to decide whether you should file for bankruptcy, your credit is probably already damaged. But it's worth noting that a Chapter 7 filing will stay on your credit report for 10 years, while a Chapter 13 will remain there for seven. Any creditors or lenders you apply to for new debt (such as a car loan, credit card, line of credit, or mortgage) will see the discharge on your report, which can prevent you from getting any credit.




Bankruptcy Pros and Cons

Pros

Allows debtors to emerge from default
Wipes clean certain unsecured debts
Avoids legal judgment



Cons

Leaves a scar on one's credit score
Secured debts will have the collateral seized
Certain debts like child support not eligible for discharge





   Alternatives to Bankruptcy  

If you want to avoid bankruptcy, several alternatives may be able to reduce your debt obligations.



Negotiating with your creditors without involving the courts can sometimes work to the benefit of both sides. Rather than risk receiving nothing, a creditor might agree to a repayment schedule that reduces your debt or spreads your payments over a longer period of time.



If you are unable to make your mortgage payments, it's worth calling your loan servicer to find out what options you might have, short of filing for bankruptcy. Those could include forbearance, which will allow you to stop making payments for a specified time, or a repayment plan designed to stretch smaller monthly payments over a longer period.



Another option might be loan modification, which will change the terms of your loan (such as lowering the interest rate) on a permanent basis, making it easier to repay. However, beware of unsolicited offers from companies claiming that they can keep your home out of foreclosure. They may be nothing more than scam artists.



If you owe tax money to the IRS, you may be eligible for an offer in compromise, allowing you to settle with the agency for an amount less than you owe. In some instances, the IRS also offers monthly payment plans for taxpayers who can’t pay their tax obligations all at once.




What is the Downside of Filing for Bankruptcy?
One downside of filing for bankruptcy is an immediate large and negative impact on your credit score. Bankruptcy will remain on your credit report for seven to 10 years. As a result, it will be more difficult and more costly to borrow money. Depending on the type of bankruptcy, you could lose assets like your home and car.




Is Bankruptcy a Good Choice?
For some people or businesses, unfortunately, bankruptcy is the right choice. If debts become too large to manage, the alternative could be a liquidation of all of your assets and legal judgments for non-payment or breach of contract. While damaging to your credit and reputation, bankruptcy is a legal channel for avoiding the worst-case scenario described above.




Do You Get Out of All Your Debts if You File for Bankruptcy?
Bankruptcy can renegotiate or erase many types of unsecured debts, such as on credit cards or personal loans. Other debts cannot be discharged in a bankruptcy. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code lists 19 different categories of debts that cannot be discharged in:Alimony and child supportCertain unpaid taxes, such as tax liens. However, some federal, state, and local taxes may be eligible for discharge if they date back several yearsDebts for willful and malicious injury to another person or property (“Willful and malicious” here means deliberate and without just cause. In Chapter 13 bankruptcy, this applies only to injury to people; debts for property damage may be discharged.)Debts for death or personal injury caused by the debtor’s operation of a motor vehicle while intoxicated from alcohol or impaired by other substancesDebts that you failed to list in your bankruptcy filingCommon/maintenance fees for condo association (or similar)




Will I Lose My Car if I Declare Bankruptcy?
If you bought your car with a loan, your vehicle may be seized as collateral during a bankruptcy proceeding. However, you can usually keep your car by reaffirming your car loan and continuing to make payments. Similarly, you can usually keep your home if you declare bankruptcy, even if you owe money on it, as long as you continue making the payments and don’t have more equity than you are permitted under state and federal bankruptcy laws.




How Does One File for Bankruptcy?
Bankruptcy is a legal process, so it begins when the debtor files a petition with the relevant bankruptcy court. This is often achieved through the help of a lawyer specialized in these types of cases.


   The Bottom Line  

Bankruptcy can provide the financial benefit of wiping out debt you cannot pay and helping you start fresh, but there are consequences. Having a bankruptcy on your credit history can harm your credit score and make it more difficult to get loans in the future,



Before filing for bankruptcy, weigh all your options for resolving your debt, including a debt consolidation program and renegotiating the terms with your lender. Consider consulting a professional financial advisor who can review all the options and guide you through how they would work in your specific financial situation.
What Is Banner Advertising?  

Banner advertising refers to the use of a rectangular graphic display that stretches across the top, bottom, or sides of a website or online media property. The horizontal type of banner advertisement is called a leaderboard, while the vertical banners are called a skyscraper and are positioned on a web page's sidebars. Banner ads are image-based rather than text-based and are a popular form of online advertising.



The purpose of banner advertising is to promote a brand and/or to get visitors from the host website to go to the advertiser's website.





Key Takeaways

Banner advertising refers to the use of a rectangular graphic display that stretches across the top, bottom, or sides of a website or online media property.Banner ads were the first form of internet-specific advertising, appearing in 1994.Today, banner advertising, and virtually all online advertising, currently utilizes real-time bidding technology known as programmatic bidding, which allows approved companies to bid on ad space during the time it takes for a banner ad to load.


   How Banner Advertising Works  

Internet advertising has gone from an uncertain bet to serving as the primary platform for most companies’ marketing. In the U.S., the growth in digital advertising continues to grow by double digits on an annual revenue basis, with 2020 revenue report at $138.9 billion.



Banner advertising, also called display advertising, consists of static or animated images or media and is usually placed in high-visibility areas on high-traffic websites. Banner advertising is attractive because it can help create brand awareness, generate leads, and re-target an audience (such as giving a visitor a chance to sign up for a newsletter or free trial before they click away).



Banner advertising functions mainly the same way as traditional advertising; however, the method by which the advertiser pays the host can differ greatly from traditional ad space sales. The host is paid for the banner advertisement through one of three methods: cost per impression (payment for every website visitor who sees the ad), cost per click (payment for every website visitor who clicks on the ad and visits the advertiser's website) or cost per action (payment for every website visitor who clicks on the ad, goes to the advertiser's website and completes a task, such as filling out a form or making a purchase).



Traditional banner advertising has expanded to other forms, such as Facebook Ads and Instagram Sponsored Ads. Facebook is estimated to account for roughly 42.5% of online display advertising spending in the U.S. in 2022. The trend in online advertising has seen digital display ad spending (including banner ads, video, rich media, and sponsorships) continue to grow. As of 2020, 31.5% of all online ad spending goes to digital advertising, which includes banner ads.






The first banner advertisement was deployed in 1994, on the website of wired.com (then called HotWired);. The banner read "Have you ever clicked your mouse right here? You will," and the ad then sent the user to a campaign for AT&T.


   Banner Advertising Technology  

Ad networks are in charge of matching advertisers to websites that want to sell advertising. They keep track of what advertising space is available and match it with advertiser demand. The technology that enables ad networks to do this is a central ad server, which selects specific ads that are tailored to the website's visitor based on keywords from the visitor's search and website viewing behavior or based on the overall context of the host website content.



Banner advertising, and virtually all online advertising, currently utilizes real-time bidding technology known as programmatic bidding, which allows approved companies to bid on ad space during the time it takes for a banner ad to load.



Trends for content marketing revolve around personalization—the ability to make consumers feel as though you are speaking directly to them. As a result, targeted banner ads have gotten ever more common.
What Does Baptism by Fire Mean?  

"Baptism by fire" is a phrase commonly used to describe a person or employee who is learning something the hard way through a challenge or difficulty.



In many cases, someone who starts a new job must undergo a baptism by fire, meaning they must immediately deal with one or more difficult situations. No one is immune to a baptism of fire, which means new and old employees, members of a company's management team, and others can experience one. The phrase, which has its roots in the Bible, originated in Europe.





Key Takeaways

Baptism by fire commonly describes a person or employee who is learning something the hard way through a challenge or difficulty.Rooted in the Bible, the phrase was originated in Europe.New employees are often trained through baptisms by fire because they have to deal with complicated, real-life situations sooner rather than later.


   Understanding Baptism by Fire  

As mentioned above, the phrase baptism by fire is rooted in the Bible's Matthew 3:11. The following passage is from the New Revised Standard Version of the Bible: "I baptize you with water for repentance, but one who is more powerful than I is coming after me; I am not worthy to carry his sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire."



The phrase was originally synonymous with a personal ordeal that someone went through. In Biblical and Christian references, a baptism by fire is also used to describe the martyrdom of an individual. As time progressed, the phrase was used to describe a soldier's first time at war, with the battle representing the soldier's baptism. In most cases, baptism by fire is still used as a wartime reference.



Baptism by fire has also been adopted by the modern work world—primarily in Europe. A baptism by fire may refer to an employee's strength, wit, and quick thinking to come out on top of a situation—whether it's deliberate or by chance. It is sometimes considered a good way to quickly train a new employee. The rationale being that they will have to deal with complicated, real-life situations sooner rather than later.



For instance, those in uniform—police officers, firefighters, and military personnel—may be thrown into the fire to quickly acclimate to the tough demands of their jobs. Once this baptism or test is complete, these workers should be able to perform their duties effectively because they've already demonstrated their mental, physical, and emotional strength to survive the initial challenge.






If an employee passes their baptism by fire, they should be able to handle any other situation that arises on the job.


   Examples of Baptism by Fire  

The phrase baptism by fire can be used to describe any number of situations. For instance, a new trader may find the market is moving violently and often against them. They survive their baptism by fire if they can successfully execute their trades with minimal or no losses regardless of which way the market moves.



Similarly, the chief executive officer (CEO) of a big company may suddenly face their own baptism by fire when a public relations (PR) crisis hits. This may be because the company physically abused a customer on video or because of a problem with the company's product line.



For example, in 2009, Michael McCain, CEO of Canadian meat company Maple Leaf Foods, faced a series of issues after the company's cold cuts were linked to a national listeriosis outbreak that caused 22 deaths. McCain issued an apology and an expanded product recall.



Here are a few other situations in which someone may have to undergo a baptism by fire:



A new hospital intern is scheduled to work a 48-hour shift in the emergency roomA writer reassigned to the Washington D.C. desk is asked to cover a breaking White House scandal and deliver the story to the managing editor by 5 a.m. the next day
What Is a Barbell?  

The barbell is an investment strategy applicable primarily to a fixed income portfolio. Following a barbell method, half the portfolio contains long-term bonds and the other half holds short-term bonds. The “barbell” gets its name because the investment strategy looks like a barbell with bonds heavily weighted at both ends of the maturity timeline. The graph will show a large number of short-term holdings and long-term maturities, but little or nothing in intermediate holdings.





Key Takeaways

The barbell is a fixed-income portfolio strategy where half of the holdings are short-term instruments and the other half are long-term holdings.The barbell strategy allows investors to take advantage of current interest rates by investing in short-term bonds, while also benefitting from the higher yields of holding long-term bonds.The barbell strategy can also mix stocks and bonds.There are several risks associated with using a barbell strategy, such as interest rate risk and inflation risk.


   Understanding Barbells  

The barbell strategy will have a portfolio consisting of short-term bonds and long-term bonds, with no intermediate bonds. Short-term bonds are considered bonds with maturities of five years or less while long-term bonds have maturities of 10 years or more. Long-term bonds usually pay higher yields—interest rates—to compensate the investor for the risk of the long holding period.



However, all fixed-rate bonds carry interest rate risk, which occurs when market interest rates are rising in comparison to the fixed-rate security being held. As a result, a bondholder might earn a lower yield compared to the market in a rising-rate environment. Long-term bonds carry higher interest rate risk than short-term bonds. Since short-term maturity investments allow the investor to reinvest more frequently, comparably rated securities carry the lower yield with the shorter holding requirements.


   Asset Allocation With the Barbell Strategy  

The traditional notion of the barbell strategy calls for investors to hold very safe fixed-income investments. However, the allocation can be mixed between risky and low-risk assets. Also, the weightings—the overall impact of one asset on the entire portfolio—for the bonds on both sides of the barbell don't have to be fixed at 50%. Adjustments to the ratio on each end can shift as market conditions require.



The barbell strategy can be structured using stock portfolios with half the portfolio anchored in bonds and the other half in stocks. The strategy could also be structured to include less risky stocks such as large, stable companies while the other half of the barbell might be in riskier stocks such as emerging market equities.


   Getting the Best of Both Bond Worlds  

The barbell strategy attempts to get the best of both worlds by allowing investors to invest in short-term bonds taking advantage of current rates while also holding long-term bonds that pay high yields. If interest rates rise, the bond investor will have less interest rate risk since the short-term bonds will be rolled over or reinvested into new short-term bonds at the higher rates.



For example, suppose an investor holds a two-year bond that pays a 1% yield. Market interest rates rise so that current two-year bonds now yield 3%. The investor allows the existing two-year bond to mature and uses those proceeds to buy a new issue, two-year bond paying the 3% yield. Any long-term bonds held in the investor's portfolio remain untouched until maturity.



As a result, a barbell investment strategy is an active form of portfolio management, as it requires frequent monitoring. Short-term bonds must be continuously rolled over into other short-term instruments as they mature.



The barbell strategy also offers diversification and reduces risk while retaining the potential to obtain higher returns. If rates rise, the investor will have the opportunity to reinvest the proceeds of the shorter-term bonds at the higher rates. Short-term securities also provide liquidity for the investor and flexibility to deal with emergencies since they mature frequently.





Pros

Reduces interest rate risk since short-term bonds can be reinvested in a rising-rate environment
Includes long-term bonds, which usually deliver higher yields than shorter-term bonds
Offers diversification between short-term and long-term maturities
Can be customized to hold a mix of equities and bonds



Cons

Interest rate risk can occur if the long-term bonds pay lower yields than the market
Long-term bonds held to maturity tie up funds and limit cash flow
Inflation risk exists if prices are rising at a faster pace than the portfolio's yield
Mixing equities and bonds can increase market risk and volatility





   Risks From the Barbell Strategy  

The barbell investment strategy still has some interest rate risk even though the investor is holding long-term bonds with higher yields than the shorter maturities. If those long-term bonds were purchased when yields were low, and rates rise afterward, the investor is stuck with 10 to 30-year bonds at yields much lower than the market. The investor must hope that the bond yields will be comparable to the market over the long term. Alternatively, they may realize the loss, sell the lower-yielding bond, and buy a replacement paying the higher yield.



Also, since the barbell strategy does not invest in medium-term bonds with intermediate maturities of five to 10 years, investors might miss out if rates are higher for those maturities. For example, investors would be holding two-year and 10-year bonds while the five-year or seven-year bonds might be paying higher yields.



All bonds have inflationary risks. Inflation is an economic concept that measures the rate at which the price level of a basket of standard goods and services increases over a specific period. While it is possible to find variable-rate bonds, for the most part, they are fixed-rate securities. Fixed-rate bonds might not keep up with inflation. Imagine that inflation rises by 3%, but the bondholder has bonds paying 2%. In real terms, they have a net loss of 1%.



Finally, investors also face reinvestment risk which happens when market interest rates are below what they were earning on their debt holdings. In this instance, let's say the investor was receiving 3% interest on a note that matured and returned the principal. Market rates have fallen to 2%. Now, the investor will not be able to find replacement securities that pay the higher 3% return without going after riskier, lower credit-worthy bonds.


   Real World Example of the Barbell Strategy  

As an example, let's say an asset allocation barbell consists of 50% safe, conservative investments such as Treasury bonds on one end, and 50% stocks on the other end.



Assume that market sentiment has become increasingly positive in the short term and it is likely the market is at the beginning of a broad rally. The investments at the aggressive—equity—end of the barbell perform well. As the rally proceeds and the market risk rises, the investor can realize their gains and trim exposure to the high-risk side of the barbell. Perhaps they sell a 10% portion of the equity holdings and allocate the proceeds to the low-risk fixed-income securities. The adjusted allocation is now 40% stocks to 60% bonds.
What Is a Bar Chart?  

Bar charts consist of multiple price bars, with each bar illustrating how the price of an asset or security moved over a specified time period. Each bar typically shows open, high, low, and closing (OHLC) prices, although this may be adjusted to show only the high, low, and close (HLC).





Key Takeaways

A bar chart visually depicts the open, high, low, and close prices of an asset or security over a specified period of time.The vertical line on a price bar represents the high and low prices for the period.The left and right horizontal lines on each price bar represent the open and closing prices.Bar charts can be colored coded where if the close is above the open it may be colored black or green, and if the close is below the open the bar may be colored red.


   Understanding Bar Charts  

A bar chart is a collection of price bars, with each bar showing price movements for a given period. Each bar has a vertical line that shows the highest and lowest price reached during the period. The opening price is marked by a small horizontal line on the left of the vertical line, and the closing price is marked by a small horizontal line on the right of the vertical line.



If the closing price is above the open price, the bar may be colored black or green. Conversely, if the close is below the open, the price dropped during that period, so it could be colored red. Color coding the bars helps traders see trends and price movements more clearly. Color coding is available as an option in most charting platforms.



Technical analysts use bar charts—or other chart types such as candlestick or line charts—to monitor price action, which aids in trading decisions. Bar charts allow traders to analyze trends, spot potential trend reversals, and monitor volatility and price movements.



Traders and investors decide which period they want to analyze. A 1-minute bar chart, which shows a new price bar each minute, would be useful for a day trader but not an investor. A weekly bar chart, which shows a new bar for each week of price movement, may be appropriate for a long-term investor, but not so much for a day trader.


   Interpreting Bar Charts  

Because a bar chart shows the open, high, low, and closing prices for each period, there is a lot of information that traders and investors can utilize.



Long vertical bars show there was a big price difference between the high and low of the period. That means volatility increased during that period. When a bar has very small vertical bars, it means there was little volatility.



If there is a large distance between the open and close it means the price made a significant move. If the close is far above the open, it shows buyers were very active during the period, which may indicate more buying in future periods is forthcoming. If the close is very near the open, it shows there was not a lot of conviction in the price movement during the period.



The location of the close relative to the high and low may also provide valuable information. If an asset rallied higher during the period but the close was well below the high, it signals that toward the end of the period sellers came in. That is less bullish than if the asset closed near its high for the period.



If the bar chart is colored coded based on whether the price rises or falls during the period, the colors can provide information at a glance. An overall uptrend is typically represented by more green/black bars. Downtrends, on the other hand, are typically represented by more red bars.


   Bar Charts vs. Candlestick Charts  

Bar charts are very similar to Japanese candlestick charts. The two chart types show the same information but in different ways.



A bar chart is composed of a vertical line, with small horizontal lines on the left and right that show the open and close. Candlesticks also have a vertical line showing the high and low of the period (called a shadow or wick), but the difference between the open and close is represented by a thicker portion called a real body. The body is shaded in or colored red if the close is below the open and shaded in or colored white or green if the close is above the open. While the information is the same, the visual look of the two chart types is different.


   Bar Chart Example  

The following image is a bar chart for the SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) ETF. During declines, the bars typically get longer, showing an increase in volatility. Declines are also marked by more down (red) price bars compared to up (green) bars.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



As the price rises, there tend to be more green bars than red bars. This helps to visually spot the trend. Even though there are typically red and green bars during an uptrend (or downtrend), one is more dominant. This is how prices move.



In order for the price to move higher within an uptrend, the price bars will need to reflect that by moving higher as well, on average. If the price starts moving lower, on average, by creating more red bars, then the price is moving into a pullback or a trend reversal.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Bare Trust?  

A bare trust is a basic trust in which the beneficiary has the absolute right to the capital and assets within the trust, as well as the income generated from these assets.



Trust assets are held in the name of a trustee, who has the responsibility of managing the trust assets prudently so as to generate maximum benefit for the beneficiaries or as lawfully directed by beneficiaries or the trust's creator. However, the trustee has no say in how or when the trust's capital or income is distributed.





Key Takeaways

Bare trusts, or "naked trusts", grant the beneficiary, as long as they are over the age of 18, the absolute right to capital, assets, and income within the trust.Bare trusts offer tax advantages to individuals who set up the trust while beneficiaries are taxed at prevailing rates or may be subject to exceptions if they have low earnings.The beneficiary or beneficiaries for a bare trust are locked in once it has been established.


   Understanding Bare Trusts  

Also known as simple trusts or naked trusts, bare trusts are widely used by parents and grandparents to transfer assets to their children or grandchildren. Bare trust rules allow beneficiaries to decide when they want to recover the trust's assets as long as they are at least 18 years of age in the United Kingdom. Beneficiaries can use the capital and income they inherit from a bare trust any way they please. 



A bare trust is established using a deed of settlement or a declaration of trust. In the simplest form of a bare trust, the assets bequeathed by the individual who set up the bare trust are owned by the trustee and beneficiary. But the trustee, in a bare trust, has no responsibilities or powers. They act per the beneficiary's instructions.



There are key differences between a bare trust and other types of trusts. Income generated from trust assets in the form of interest, dividends, and rent is taxed to the beneficiary because they are the legal owner of these assets. This stipulation can offer beneficiaries substantial tax relief if they are low-earning individuals as tax policies typically favor individuals over trusts. Beneficiaries would have to report income generated by the trust assets as well as capital gains that exceed the annual exemption in their Self Assessment tax returns. 



This tax will be levied on the trust's creator or settlor, however, if the beneficiary is under the age of 18. For example, a grandparent opening a bare trust for an infant grandchild would have to pay taxes on the income generated by trust assets until the infant beneficiary turns 18.


   Inheritance Tax Implications of Bare Trusts  

Beneficiaries may also be responsible for paying inheritance tax if the trust settlor dies within seven years of establishing the trust because bare trusts are treated by tax authorities as potentially exempt transfers. No inheritance tax will be owed, however, if the settlor outlives those seven years. There is no tax implication for the individual who sets up a bare trust because they give up legal title to the assets when they are transferred to the trust.






Once a beneficiary or beneficiaries for a bare trust are set, the decision can't be reversed.
What Is a Barrel of Oil Equivalent (BOE)?  

A barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a term used to summarize the amount of energy that is equivalent to the amount of energy found in a barrel of crude oil. By encompassing different types of energy resources into one figure, analysts, investors, and management can assess the total amount of energy the firm can access. This is also known as crude oil equivalent (COE).



Many oil companies produce both oil and gas, among other petroleum products, but the unit of measure for each is different. Oil is measured in barrels and natural gas is measured in billions of cubic feet (BCFE). To help facilitate like-for-like comparisons, the industry standardized natural gas production into "equivalent barrels" of oil. One barrel of oil is generally deemed to have the same amount of energy content as 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas. So this quantity of natural gas is "equivalent" to one barrel of oil.



BOE can be compared with natural gas equivalent, which translates the energy in an amount of oil (or other energy product) into that of gas.





Key Takeaways

Barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a way of standardizing natural gas and other energy resources to a barrel of oil's energy.This measurement converts gas production to oil production on an energy-equivalent basis.One barrel of crude oil generally has approximately the same energy content as 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas, so this quantity of natural gas is "equivalent" to one barrel of oil.Calculated BOEs per day (BOE/D) is an important metric for financial analysts and industry insiders to evaluate the performance of energy companies.It is also possible, but less common, to see oil production reported in the equivalent volume of gas.


   Understanding a Barrel of Oil Equivalent  

The BOE is frequently used when exploration and production companies are reporting the total amount of reserves they have. Oil and natural gas are formed through the same geological processes; therefore, the two energy commodities are often found together. Many energy companies have a mixed reserve base, and they need a way to communicate the total energy content of their reserves in a manner that is easily understood. They can accomplish this by converting all of their reserves to BOE.



An energy company's primary asset is the amount of energy it owns, so an energy company bases its financial decisions and planning on its reserve base. For investors, a company's reserves are important in assessing the value of the company and determining whether or not the company is a good investment.



Both investors and companies want to see a company's total energy resource increase over time. Representing reserves in BOE facilitates the comparison of total energy assets over time and against other similar energy companies. It would be more complicated to compare a company's energy assets over time and against other companies if natural gas and oil were presented separately.


   Calculating Barrel of Oil Equivalents  

Converting assets to BOE is fairly simple. In terms of volume, oil is represented per barrel, and natural gas is represented per thousand cubic feet (mcf). There are 42 gallons (approximately 159 liters) in one barrel of oil. The energy contained in a barrel of oil is approximately 5.8 million British thermal units (MBtus) or 1,700 kilowatt-hours (kWh) of energy. This is an approximate measure because different grades of oil have slightly different energy equivalents.



One Mcf of natural gas contains approximately one-sixth of the energy of a barrel of oil; therefore, 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas (6 Mcf) have the energy equivalent of one barrel of oil. For large quantities of energy, BOE can be represented at kilo barrels of oil equivalent (kBOE), which is 1,000 BOE.






The Society of Petroleum Engineers provides conversion tables that help illustrate unit equivalencies and some of the factors that affect comparison and conversion.


   Barrel of Oil Equivalents and Production  

BOE also comes up when communicating daily energy production and consumption. This is expressed in barrels of oil equivalent per day (BOE/D). Barrels of oil equivalent per day is a term that is used often in conjunction with the production or distribution of crude oil and natural gas. ​BOE/D is important to the financial community because it is used as a way to help determine the value of a company.



There are several different metrics that equity and bond analysts use to evaluate the performance of an oil company. First is a company's total production, which is calculated on a total equivalent barrel basis. This helps to determine the scale of the business. Companies that produce little oil and a lot of natural gas could be unfairly evaluated if equivalent barrels were not counted.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  What is barrel of oil equivalents (BOE) in economics?  

Oil is measured in barrels and natural gas is measured in cubic feet. To help facilitate like-for-like comparisons, the industry standardized natural gas production into "equivalent barrels" of oil.


  How do I calculate BOE?  

One barrel of oil is standardized to have the same amount of energy content as 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas. So this quantity of natural gas is "equivalent" to one barrel of oil.


  Why is a barrel of oil 42 gallons?  

The 42-gallon barrel was a commonly used standard prior to the 18th century. This sized container was used for shipping everything from fish, molasses, soap, butter, wine, and whale oil. When filled with oil instead of fish or other commodities, a 42-gallon “tierce” weighed 300 pounds. The 42-gallon oil barrel was officially adopted in 1866. 


  How much crude oil does it take to make one gallon of gasoline?  

Crude oil is refined into various end products, including gasoline used in cars. Refineries use approximately 2.15 gallons of crude oil to generate 1 gallon of gasoline.
What Does Barrels Of Oil Equivalent Per Day Mean?  

Barrels of oil equivalent per day (BOE/D) is a term that is used often in conjunction with the production or distribution of crude oil and natural gas. Many oil companies produce both of these commodities, but the unit of measure for each is different. Oil is measured in barrels and natural gas is measured in cubic feet. To help facilitate like-for-like comparisons, the industry standardized natural gas production into "equivalent barrels" of oil. One barrel of oil is generally deemed to have the same amount of energy content as 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas. So this quantity of natural gas is "equivalent" to one barrel of oil.



When measuring a company's natural gas production output, management often wants to know how many equivalent barrels of oil they are producing. This makes it easier to compare themselves to other industry participants. The Society of Petroleum Engineers provides conversion tables that help illustrate unit equivalencies and some of the factors that affect comparison and conversion.


   Understanding Barrels Of Oil Equivalent Per Day (BOE/D)  

Large oil producers are evaluated and refer to their production by the number of cubic feet of natural gas, and/or by the barrels of oil equivalent, they produce per day. This is an industry standard and a way that investors can compare the production and/or the reserves of two oil/gas companies.



​BOE/D is important to the financial community because it is used as a way to help determine the value of a company. There are several different metrics equity and bond analysts use to evaluate the performance of an oil company. First is a company's total production, which is calculated on a total equivalent barrel basis. This helps to determine the scale of the business. Companies that produce little oil and a lot of natural gas could be unfairly evaluated if equivalent barrels were not counted.



​Another important measure of a company is the size of its reserves. Equivalent barrels play an important role here too because excluding natural gas reserves can unfairly impact the size of a company. When banks are determining the size of a loan to extend, it is important to consider the total size of the company's reserve base. Converting natural gas reserves to equivalent barrels is an easy to understand like-for-like metric that helps to determine the amount of debt a company has relative to its reserve base. If this isn't evaluated correctly, a company can be unfairly impacted with higher borrowing costs.
What Is a Barrier Option?  

A barrier option is a type of derivative where the payoff depends on whether or not the underlying asset has reached or exceeded a predetermined price.



A barrier option can be a knock-out, meaning it expires worthless if the underlying exceeds a certain price, limiting profits for the holder and limiting losses for the writer. It can also be a knock-in, meaning it has no value until the underlying reaches a certain price. 





Key Takeaways

Barrier options are a type of exotic option in which payout depends on whether the option has reached or exceeded a pre-determined barrier price.Barrier options offer cheaper premiums as compared to standard options and are also used to hedge positions.There are primarily two types of barrier options: knock-out and knock-in barrier options.


   Understanding a Barrier Option  

Barrier options are considered exotic options because they are more complex than basic American or European options. Barrier options are also considered a type of path-dependent option because their value fluctuates as the underlying's value changes during the option's contract term. In other words, a barrier option's payoff is based on the underlying asset's price path. The option becomes worthless or may be activated upon the crossing of a price point barrier.



Barrier options are typically classified as either knock-in or knock-out.


   Knock-in Barrier Options  

A knock-in option is a type of barrier option where the rights associated with that option only come into existence when the price of the underlying security reaches a specified barrier during the option's life. Once a barrier is knocked in, or comes into existence, the option remains in existence until it expires.



Knock-in options may be classified as up-and-in or down-and-in. In an up-and-in barrier option, the option only comes into existence if the price of the underlying asset rises above the pre-specified barrier, which is set above the underlying's initial price. Conversely, a down-and-in barrier option only comes into existence when the underlying asset price moves below a pre-determined barrier that is set below the underlying's initial price.


   Knock-out Barrier Options  

Contrary to knock-in barrier options, knock-out barrier options cease to exist if the underlying asset reaches a barrier during the life of the option. Knock-out barrier options may be classified as up-and-out or down-and-out. An up-and-out option ceases to exist when the underlying security moves above a barrier that is set above the underlying's initial price. A down-and-out option ceases to exist when the underlying asset moves below a barrier that is set below the underlying's initial price. If an underlying asset reaches the barrier at any time during the option's life, the option is knocked out, or terminated.


   Other Types of Barrier Options  

Other variants of the barrier options described above are possible. Here are three of them:



Rebate Barrier Options: Both knock-out and knock-in barrier options can contain a provision to provide rebates to holders, if the option does not reach the barrier price and becomes worthless. Such options are known as rebate barrier options. Rebates, in such cases, take the form of a percentage of the premium paid by the holder for the option.
Turbo Warrant Barrier Options: Mainly traded in Europe and Hong Kong, Turbo warrants are a type of down-and-out option that is highly leveraged and is characterized by low volatility. They are popular in Germany and are used for speculation purposes.
Parisian Option: In a Parisian option, reaching the barrier price does not trigger the contract. Instead the underlying asset's price has to spend a pre-defined amount of time beyond the trigger barrier price for the contract to kick in. The amount of time that the underlying asset's price spends outside and inside the barrier price range is measured in this type of option.


   Reasons to Trade Barrier Options  

Because barrier options have additional conditions built in, they tend to have cheaper premiums than comparable options with no barriers. Therefore, if a trader believes the barrier is unlikely to be reached, then they may opt to buy a knock-out option, for example, since it has a lower premium and the barrier condition is unlikely to affect them. 



Someone who wants to hedge a position, but only if the price of the underlying reaches a specific level, may opt to use knock-in options. The lower premium of the barrier option may make this more appealing than using non-barrier American or European options.


   Examples of Barrier Options  

Here are two examples of barrier options described above.


  Knock-in Barrier Option  

Assume an investor purchases an up-and-in call option with a strike price of $60 and a barrier of $65, when the underlying stock is trading at $55. The option would not come into existence until the underlying stock price moved above $65. While the investor pays for the option, and the potential that it could become valuable, the option only becomes applicable if the underlying reaches $65. If it doesn't, the option is never triggered and the option buyer loses what they paid for the option.


  Knock-out Barrier Option  

Assume a trader purchased an up-and-out put option with a barrier of $25 and a strike price of $20, when the underlying security was trading at $18. The underlying security rises above $25 during the life of the option, and therefore, the option ceases to exist. The option is now worthless, even if it only touched $25 briefly and then dropped back below.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Barriers to Entry?  

Barriers to entry is an economics and business term describing factors that can prevent or impede newcomers into a market or industry sector, and so limit competition. These can include high start-up costs, regulatory hurdles, or other obstacles that prevent new competitors from easily entering a business sector. Barriers to entry benefit existing firms because they protect their market share and ability to generate revenues and profits.



Common barriers to entry include special tax benefits to existing firms, patent protections, strong brand identity, customer loyalty, and high customer switching costs. Other barriers include the need for new companies to obtain licenses or regulatory clearance before operation.





Key Takeaways

Barriers to entry describe the high start-up costs or other obstacles that prevent new competitors from easily entering an industry or area of business.Barriers to entry benefit incumbent firms because they protect their revenues and profits and prevent others from stealing market share.Barriers to entry may be caused naturally, by government intervention, or through pressure from existing firms.Each industry has its own specific set of barriers to entry that startups must contend with.Barriers to entry may be financial (high cost to enter a market), regulatory (laws restricting trade), or operational (trying to attract loyal customers or inaccessibility of trade channels).












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Barriers to Entry  

Some barriers to entry exist because of government intervention, while others occur naturally within a free market. Often, companies lobby the government to erect new barriers to entry. Ostensibly, this is done to protect the integrity of the industry and prevent new entrants from introducing inferior products into the market.



Generally, firms favor barriers to entry in order to limit competition and claim a larger market share when they are already comfortably ensconced in an industry. Other barriers to entry occur naturally, often evolving over time as certain industry players establish dominance. Barriers to entry are often classified as primary or ancillary. 



A primary barrier to entry presents as a barrier alone (e.g., steep startup costs). An ancillary barrier is not a barrier in and of itself. Rather, combined with other barriers, it weakens the potential firm's ability to enter the industry. In other words, it reinforces other barriers.






Barriers to entry may be natural (high startup costs to drill a new oil well), created by governments (licensing fees or patents stand in the way), or by other firms (monopolists can buy or compete away startups).


   Government Barriers to Entry  

Industries heavily regulated by the government are usually the most difficult to penetrate. Examples include commercial airlines, defense contractors, and cable companies. The government creates formidable barriers to entry for varying reasons. In the case of commercial airlines, not only are regulations stout, but the government limits new entrants to limit air traffic and simplifies monitoring. Cable companies are heavily regulated and limited because their infrastructure requires extensive public land use.



Sometimes the government imposes barriers to entry not by necessity but because of lobbying pressure from existing firms. For example, one state requires government licensing to become a florist and four states require government licensing to become an interior designer. Critics assert that regulations on such industries are needless, accomplishing nothing but limiting competition and stifling entrepreneurship.


   Natural Barriers to Entry  

Barriers to entry can also form naturally as the dynamics of an industry take shape. Brand identity and customer loyalty serve as barriers to entry for potential entrants. Certain brands, such as Kleenex and Jell-O, have identities so strong that their brand names are synonymous with the types of products they manufacture.



High consumer switching costs are barriers to entry as new entrants face difficulty enticing prospective customers to pay the additional money required to make a change/switch.






Barrier to entry may also be referred to as barrier to competition, entry barrier, or market entry barrier.


   Industry-Specific Barriers to Entry  

Industry sectors also have their own barriers to entry that stem from the nature of the business as well as the position of powerful incumbents.


  Pharmaceutical Industry  

Before any company can make and market even a generic pharmaceutical drug in the United States, it must be granted a special authorization by the FDA. The FDA cites that even the most important drugs for general public health may take up to six months to approve. Although the standard review timeline is around 10 months, more complex drugs or applications may be required to enter this review cycles multiple times due to revisions.



Moreover, just 18% of applications are approved in the first cycle. Each application is incredibly political and even more expensive. In the meantime, established pharmaceutical companies can replicate the product awaiting review and then file a special 180-day market exclusivity patent, which essentially steals the product and creates a temporary monopoly.



It may take billions of dollars to bring a drug to market. Equally as important, it can take up to 10 years for a drug to be approved for a prescription. Even if a startup company had the capital on hand to develop and test the drug according to FDA rules, it still might not receive revenue for 10 years. Last, ultimate success is far from guaranteed. From 2011 to 2020, the likelihood of approval for development candidates for just Phase I was 7.9%.


  Electronics Industry  

Consumer electronics with mass popularity are more susceptible to economies of scale and scope as barriers. Economies of scale mean that an established company can easily produce and distribute a few more units of existing products cheaply because overhead costs, such as management and real estate, are spread over a large number of units. A small firm attempting to produce these same few units must divide overhead costs by its relatively small number of units, making each unit very costly to produce.



Established electronics companies, such as Apple (AAPL), may strategically build in switching costs to retain customers. These strategies may include contracts that are costly and complicated to terminate or software and data storage that cannot be transferred to new electronic devices. This is prevalent in the smartphone industry, wherein consumers may pay termination fees and face the cost of reacquiring applications when they consider switching phone service providers.


  Oil and Gas Industry  

The barriers to entry in the oil and gas sector are extremely strong and include high resource ownership, high startup costs, patents and copyrights in association with proprietary technology, government, and environmental regulations, and high fixed operating costs. High startup costs mean that very few companies even attempt to enter the sector. This lowers potential competition from the start. In addition, proprietary technology forces even those with high startup capital to face an immediate operating disadvantage upon entering the sector.



High fixed operating costs make companies with startup capital wary of entering the sector. Local and foreign governments also force companies within the industry to closely comply with environmental regulations. These regulations often require capital to comply, forcing smaller companies out of the sector.


  Financial Services Industry  

It is generally very expensive to establish a new financial services company. High fixed costs and large sunk costs in the production of wholesale financial services make it difficult for startups to compete with large firms that have scale efficiencies. Regulatory barriers exist between commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutions and, in many cases, the costs of compliance and threat of litigation are sufficient to deter new products or firms from entering the market.



Compliance and licensure costs are disproportionately damaging to smaller firms. A large-cap financial services provider does not have to allocate as large of a percentage of its resources to ensure it does not run into trouble with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Truth in Lending Act (TILA), Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), or a host of other agencies and laws.


   How to Overcome Barriers to Entry  

Companies deploy a number of strategies to avoid or overcome barriers to entry. Here are some common barriers and potential solutions to address them.


  Trade and Economic Barriers  

If governments are employing trade sanctions, it may be more difficult to import or export goods in relation to that country. Companies may seek different markets to work with or seek which products are specifically excluded from trade sanctions. If all else fails, a company may simply delay the timing of transacting with the country with the sanction as many government sanctions are temporary.


  Tariffs and Tax Barriers  

Companies may pre-emptively decide they want to burden the consumer with additional barrier charges such as import tariffs or taxes. Companies may also seek ways to avoid taxes such as partnering with local organizations to manufacture goods or develop value-added activities in the local market so the imported goods are assessed at a lower value (and assessed lower fees).


  Information Barriers  

A company seeking to join or create a brand new market may simply not have enough information needed to feel it may be successful. For these types of barriers, it may be best for the company to develop a minimum viable product for market research. This test product may be used to elicit consumer feedback as well as shape financial planning expectations.



A company may also consider acquiring an existing company within the market it seeks to join. Not only will this company have already overcome some if not all aspects of the barriers to entry, the company may have knowledge and information useful to the long-term success of the company.


  Market Dominance Barriers  

In some cases, the market leader position is so advanced, it'd nearly impossible they'll be caught in the short-term. For these barriers, companies may consider using a disruptive pricing model and even incurring a short-term loss to steal long-term customers. A company may also set difference objectives such as "be the lowest cost producer".


  Cost Barriers  

Though many costs likely can't be overcome, a company may consider using open-source software instead of custom, proprietary software to cut costs. The company may seek short-term leases instead of capital investments for equipment to gauge financial success in the near term. The company may also choose to only manufacture on-demand or on order to avoid over-committing resources that could have been used elsewhere.




What Are Some Barriers to Entry?
The most obvious barriers to entry are high start-up costs and regulatory hurdles which include the need for new companies to obtain licenses or regulatory clearance before operation. Also, industries heavily regulated by the government are usually the most difficult to penetrate. Other forms of barrier to entry that prevent new competitors from easily entering a business sector include special tax benefits to existing firms, patent protections, strong brand identity, customer loyalty, and high customer switching costs.




Why Would a Government Create a Barrier to Entry?
Governments create barriers to entry for varying reasons. In some cases, such as consumer protection laws, these barriers are intended to protect public safety but have the unintended effect of favoring incumbent businesses. In other cases, such as broadcasting licenses or commercial airlines, the barriers are due to the inherent scarcity of the public resources needed by these industries. In some cases, the government may impose barriers to entry explicitly to protect favored industries.




What Are Natural Barriers to Entry?
Barriers to entry can also form naturally as the dynamics of an industry take shape. Brand identity and customer loyalty serve as barriers to entry for potential entrants. Certain brands, such as Kleenex and Jell-O, have identities so strong that their brand names are synonymous with the types of products they manufacture. High consumer switching costs are barriers to entry as new entrants face difficulty enticing prospective customers to pay the additional money required to make a change/switch.




Which Industries Have High Barriers to Entry?
Industries requiring heavy regulation or high upfront capital often have the highest barriers to entry. Telecommunications, transport (i.e. car or airplane), casinos, parcel delivery services, pharmaceutical, electronics, oil and gas, and financial services often all require substantial initial investments. Each of those industries is also heavily regulated or requires substantial oversight from governing bodies.


   The Bottom Line  

There are many aspects of many industries that prevent companies from entering into a market. These barriers to entry may be set by government policy, created due to high financial cost, or occur naturally due to the industry itself. For companies already within the industry, barriers to entry protects against competition easily stealing market share. For companies seeking entry, it'll be a larger hurdle trying to overcome the hurdles preventing easy access into an industry.
What Is Barter?  

Barter is an act of trading goods or services between two or more parties without the use of money —or a monetary medium, such as a credit card. In essence, bartering involves the provision of one good or service by one party in return for another good or service from another party.



A simple example of a barter arrangement is a carpenter who builds a fence for a farmer. Instead of the farmer paying the builder $1,000 in cash for labor and materials, the farmer could instead recompense the carpenter with $1,000 worth of crops or foodstuffs.





Key Takeaways

Bartering is the exchange of goods and services between two or more parties without the use of money.It is the oldest form of commerce.Individuals and companies barter goods and services between each other based on equivalent estimates of prices and goods.The IRS considers bartering to be a form of income that incurs taxes.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Principles of Bartering  

Bartering is based on a simple concept: Two individuals negotiate to determine the relative value of their goods and services and offer them to one another in an even exchange. It is the oldest form of commerce, dating back to a time before hard currency even existed.



While the current senior generation bartered with the limited goods they had on hand (i.e., produce and livestock) or services they could personally render (i.e., carpentry and tailoring) to someone they knew, today most Americans have access to a nearly unlimited source of potential bartering partners through the internet.



Virtually any item or service can be bartered if the parties involved agree to the terms of the trade. Individuals, companies, and countries can all benefit from such cashless exchanges, particularly if they are lacking hard currency to obtain goods and services.






While it is mostly associated with commerce during ancient times, bartering has been reinvented in this era through the internet.


   Benefits of Bartering  

Bartering allows individuals to trade items that they own but are not using for items that they need, while keeping their cash on hand for expenses that cannot be paid through bartering, such as a mortgage, medical bills, and utilities.



Bartering can have a psychological benefit because it can create a deeper personal relationship between trading partners than a typical monetized transaction. Bartering can also help people build professional networks and market their businesses.






In an economic crunch, bartering can be a great way to get the goods and services you need without having to pull money out of your pocket.



On a broader level, bartering can result in the optimal allocation of resources by exchanging goods in quantities that represent similar values. Bartering can also help economies achieve equilibrium, which occurs when demand equals supply.


   How Individuals Barter  

When two people each have items the other wants, both parties can determine the values of the items and provide the amount that results in an optimal allocation of resources.



For instance, if an individual has 20 pounds of rice that they value at $10, they can exchange it with another individual who needs rice and who has something that the individual wants that's valued at $10. A person can also exchange an item for something that the individual does not need because there is a ready market to dispose of that item.


   How Companies Barter  

Companies may want to barter their products for other products because they do not have the credit or cash to buy those goods. It is an efficient way to trade because the risks of foreign exchange are eliminated.



The most common contemporary example of business-to-business (B2B) barter transactions is an exchange of advertising time or space; it is typical for smaller firms to trade the rights to advertise on each others' business spaces. Bartering also occurs among companies and individuals. For example, an accounting firm can provide an accounting report for an electrician in exchange for having its offices rewired by the electrician.


   How Countries Barter  

Countries also engage in bartering when they are deeply in debt and are unable to obtain financing. Goods are exported in exchange for goods that the country needs. In this way, countries manage trade deficits and reduce the amount of debt they incur.





$12-$14 billion 

The estimated annual dollar range of barter transactions in the U.S., according to the International Reciprocal Trade Association (IRTA).


   Bartering During Downturns  

Online barter exchanges became especially popular with small businesses after the 2008 financial crisis, which culminated in the Great Recession. As prospects and sales dwindled, small businesses increasingly turned to barter exchanges to generate revenue. These exchanges enabled members to find new customers for their products and get access to goods and services using unused inventory.



The exchanges also used custom currency, which could be hoarded and used to purchase services such as hotel stays during vacations. The barter economy during the financial crisis was estimated to have touched $3 billion.



There have been several other examples of bartering growing in popularity during times of economic uncertainty. For instance, in 2020, a year associated with COVID-19 enforced lockdowns, the BBC reported that bartering in the United Kingdom had become much more widespread. Moreover, in 2022, it was reported that frustrated Argentines, against a backdrop of high inflation and low wages, introduced barter fairs in and around Buenos Aires.


   Tax Implications of Bartering  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers bartering a form of revenue and something that must be reported as taxable income.



Under the U.S.'s generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), businesses are expected to estimate the fair market value of their bartered goods or services. This is done by referring to past cash transactions of similar goods or services and using that historical revenue as a reportable value. When it is not possible to accurately calculate the value, most bartered goods are reported based on their carrying value.



For the IRS, estimated barter dollars are identical to real dollars for tax purposes, which means that barter arrangements are considered the same as cash payments. The barter dollars are reported as income and taxed in the fiscal year in which the barter occurred.



The IRS further distinguishes between different forms of bartering, and there are slightly different rules for each type. Most nonmonetary business income is reported on Form 1040, Schedule C—Profit or Loss from Business.






Since bartering has tax implications, it's worth consulting a tax professional before making any significant commitments.


   How to Barter  

So how can an individual successfully barter? Here are some tips:



Identify your resources: What items do you have that you could easily part with? Use a critical eye to go through your home, and consider possessions you may have in storage or that another family member or friend is currently using. If you would prefer to offer services, honestly assess what you could provide for others that they would otherwise pay a professional to do. It could be a skill or a talent, or even a hobby, such as photography. 



Put a price tag on it: Successful bartering must result in the satisfaction of both parties. This can only happen if the items bartered are realistically valued. If you have an item you would like to trade, obtain an accurate appraisal. An item is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it. Therefore, do your research and look at the "selling" section on eBay to find out what online buyers have paid for similar items.



To value a service, call around for local estimates from professionals to find out how competitively you can price your abilities. Remember to be honest about your skills and to factor in costs associated with the exchange; for example, shipping (for goods) or materials (for trading a skill).



Identify your needs: Be specific about what you are looking for in a barter exchange. In addition to specific items you may need, here is a list of potential services that you could barter for:



Babysitting/daycareCar repair workLawn care/landscapingComputer repairSmall home improvement projectsPlumbingMoving assistanceTax preparationFinancial planningOrthodontist workMedical careLodging



Search for bartering partners: After you know what you have to offer and exactly what you need/want in a barter situation, find a barter partner. If you don't have a specific person or business in mind, try word of mouth. Let your friends, colleagues, and social network know about your specific need and what you want in a barter situation.



Check online swap markets and online auctions that have a bartering component, such as Craigslist.com (check under "For Sale" for the Bartering category), Swapace.com, and BarterQuest.com. Also, check for local bartering clubs. Your local chamber of commerce may be able to provide you with information on similar clubs in your area.



Make the deal: After you've found a barter partner, get the agreement in writing. Make sure you detail what services or goods will be involved, the date of the exchange (or work to be done), and any recourse if either party reneges on their part of the deal. If you are working through a membership-based bartering association, they will likely provide all the structure and paperwork you need for the deal.


   Limits of Bartering  

Bartering does have its limitations. Much bigger (i.e., chain) businesses will not entertain the idea and even smaller organizations may limit the dollar amount of goods or services for which they will barter—they may not agree to a 100% barter arrangement and instead require that you make at least partial payment.


   Membership-Based Bartering Trading Exchanges  

Some businesses that may not directly barter with customers might swap goods or services through membership-based trading exchanges such as ITEX or International Monetary Systems (IMS). By joining a trading network, which often charge fees, members can trade with other members for barter "dollars." Each transaction is subject to a minimal fee; the exchange facilitates the swap and manages the tax components of bartering, such as issuing 1099-B forms to participating members.



You may find a nearby exchange through the International Reciprocal Trade Association (IRTA) Member Directory. Before you sign up and pay for a membership, however, make sure that members offer the types of goods and services you need. Otherwise, you may find yourself with barter money or credit that you cannot use.




What Is an Example of a Barter?
A barter transaction could occur, say, between a plumber and a copywriter. In this example, the plumber goes to the writer’s house to fix some leaking pipes and then rather than asking for payment asks the writer to help pen some promotional materials for the plumber’s business instead. What we are witnessing here is one service (plumbing work) being exchanged for another (writing) without any money changing hands.




Is Bartering Illegal?
Bartering is legal in many countries in the world, provided it is carried out correctly. Issues can arise when exchanges aren’t declared to local tax authorities, in which case the bartering transaction becomes illegal.




Is Bartering Still Used Today?
Absolutely. The use of a cashless exchange system is still flourishing today. Examples of modern forms of bartering include time banking, child care cooperatives, and house sitting.


   The Bottom Line  

Bartering is often associated with underdeveloped economies, medieval markets, and times of old. However, in reality, this ancient custom continues to flourish throughout the world.



Goods or services of similar value are regularly exchanged without cash changing hands from the United States of America all the way to China. And technological developments such as the internet have made it easier than ever before to find potential bartering partners and useful services to exchange for.
What Is the Base Effect?  

The base effect is the effect that choosing a different reference point for a comparison between two data points can have on the result of the comparison. This often involves the use of some kind of ratio or index value between two points in a time-series data set, but can also apply to cross-sectional or other types of data.



Thinking about the base effect in comparing different numbers or pieces of data means considering the question, "Compared to what?" The choice of the basis for comparison can have a large effect on the apparent result of a comparison. If ignored or misunderstood, the base effect can lead to a major distortion and possibly mistaken conclusions; however, if considered carefully, it can be leveraged to improve an analyst's understanding of the data and the underlying processes that generate them.





Key Takeaways

The base effect refers to the effect that the choice of a basis of comparison or reference can have on the result of the comparison between data points.Using a different reference or base for comparison can lead to a large variation in ratio or percentage comparisons between data points.The base effect can lead to distortion in comparisons and deceptive results, or, if well understood and accounted for, can be used to improve our understanding of data and the underlying processes that generate them.


   Understanding the Base Effect  

The base effect occurs whenever two data points are compared as a ratio where the current data point or point of interest is divided or expressed as a percentage of another data point, the base or point of comparison.



Because the base number makes up the denominator in the comparison, comparisons using different base values can yield widely varying results. If the base has an abnormally high or low value it can greatly distort the ratio, resulting in a potentially deceptive comparison.



The base effect is most commonly pointed out when discussing comparisons using time-series data where the raw data value at one point in time is being compared to another chosen point. It can occur whether there is a constant index base to which many values in the series are being compared, or when doing a moving period-to-period comparison.


   Choosing the Right Basis Point  

The base effect can work for or against you. Choosing an inappropriate basis for comparison or ignoring the base effect in a time index can lead to a distorted perception of the magnitude or rate of change of the current point in a data series.



This is related to the idea of garbage-in-garbage-out; if the value of the denominator in a comparison is uncharacteristic or unrepresentative of the overall data trend, then the comparison will likewise be unrepresentative of the relationship between the current data point and the data series as a whole, and whatever process generates that data.



For example, the base effect can lead to an apparent under- or overstatement of figures such as inflation rates or economic growth rates if the point chosen for comparison has an unusually high or low value relative to the current period or the overall data.



On the other hand, understanding the base effect and choosing appropriate bases for the comparison you want to make (or at least accounting for the base effect in your comparison) can lead to a better understanding of the data or even the underlying process.



For example, comparing monthly data points to their previous values 12 months prior can help filter out seasonal effects. Alternatively, comparing a data point to a long-run moving average of its own values can help reveal if the current datum shows an anomalously high or low value.


   Inflation as an Example of the Base Effect  

Inflation is often expressed as a month-over-month figure or a year-over-year figure. Typically, economists and consumers want to know how much higher or lower prices are today than they were one year ago. But a month in which inflation spikes may produce the opposite effect a year later, essentially creating the impression that inflation has slowed.



The distortion in a monthly inflation figure that results from abnormally high or low levels of inflation in the year-ago month is an example of the base effect. A base effect can make it difficult to accurately assess inflation levels over time. It diminishes over time if inflation levels are relatively constant, without strong outlier values.



Inflation is calculated based on price levels that are summarized in an index. The index may spike in June, for example, perhaps due to a surge in gasoline prices. Over the following 11 months, the month-over-month changes may return to normal, but when June arrives again the following year its price level will be compared to those of a year earlier when the index reflected a one-time spike in gasoline prices.



In that case, because the index for that month was high, the price change this June will be less, implying that inflation has become subdued when, in fact, the small change in the index is just a reflection of the base effect—the result of the higher price index value a year earlier.




What Is the Base Effect in an Economy?
The base effect in an economy is commonly used to understand inflation. If inflation is compared on a monthly or yearly basis, the information can become distorted, so choosing a base point, or base year, that is a point earlier in time, can help smooth the changes in inflation.




Why Is the Base Year Always 100?
The CPI value for the base year is always 100 because it is a starting point to measure changes in price. A basket of goods in future years will be compared to the base year to measure the increase/decrease in price.




Does the Base Year Change?
For purposes of calculating inflation, the base year does change. The base year changes to adjust for changes in the economy over time. When that happens, all the information is recalculated back to the new base year for consistent reporting.


   The Bottom Line  

Without a basis for comparison, data points won't be able to provide meaningful insight. A basis point always needs to be selected. Changing the basis point would alter the meaning of the data as well, known as the base effect. Understanding the base effect and the appropriate reference points to choose can help better understand data, make adjustments, and adjust policies.
What Is Base Pay?  

Base pay is the initial salary paid to an employee, not including any benefits, bonuses, or raises. It is the rate of compensation an employee receives in exchange for services. An employee's base pay can be expressed as an hourly rate or weekly, monthly, or annual salary.





Key Takeaways

Base pay is an employee's standard pay rate, which does not include benefits, bonuses, raises, or other compensation.Base pay can be expressed as an hourly rate or as an annual salary.Annual pay calculations include the items not included in base pay calculations, namely benefits, bonuses, raises, and overtime.Many salaried employees do not receive overtime pay for working their jobs.Hourly employees and salaried employees may have different benefits from their employers.


   Understanding Base Pay  

Base pay does not include all forms of compensation; for instance, shift differential pay, on-call pay, special assignments, and incentive-based pay are typically excluded from base pay. Generally, an employee's base pay is the minimum amount they should expect to receive during a specified pay period, excluding additional financial or tangible compensation that may increase the total pay above this level.



In contrast to hourly employees who are compensated for the exact number of hours they work in a pay period, a salaried employee is usually expected to work a minimum number of hours in exchange for their base pay. Some companies do not require salaried employees to keep track of their hours.



Many workers who receive a base salary are exempt from federal labor laws governing overtime compensation. Consequently, they do not receive overtime pay if they work more than the minimum hours required by the employer. Some positions may necessitate working significantly more hours than the typical 40-hour workweek.






Some salaried employees that make less than $35,568 are entitled to overtime pay for any hours worked over 40 during a week.


   Base Pay vs. Annual Pay  

While base pay excludes supplemental compensation received in employment, annual income takes into account actual earnings over the year. Annual pay may be significantly higher than the base pay, including bonuses, overtime, benefits, or awards.



Annual pay also factors in any amounts paid by an employer for a worker's medical, dental, and life insurance policies. The sum of these premiums is added to the base rate and other forms of compensation, such as overtime or bonuses, to calculate the amount of pay received in a calendar year.


   Special Considerations  

Base pay rates vary significantly between professions. In general, professions requiring advanced education and specialized skill sets pay higher base rates than jobs requiring basic skills. In competitive fields, employers often offer attractive base pay rates to recruit highly qualified applicants.



In addition to paying high base salaries, companies may woo prospective employees with additional perks, including a generous benefits package, retirement plan, bonuses, investment options, and tangible rewards, such as a company vehicle or paid leisure travel. These extras can substantially increase a company's likelihood of hiring and retaining top-notch personnel.




What Is Military Base Pay?
Military base pay—also known as basic pay—refers to the standard compensation amount received by U.S. military members. Military base pay represents the biggest part of a member's total compensation and excludes other forms of compensation, such as housing and food allowances. Active duty pay is based on the member's pay grade and their number of years of service.




How Is Military Base Pay Calculated?
A military member's monthly base pay is calculated based on their pay grade and the number of years of service. Military base pay is the military member's basic compensation excluding additional allowances. Base pay does not include other forms of compensation that the member receives, such as the basic allowance for housing (BAH), clothing, bonuses, hazard pay, and cost-of-living adjustment (COLA). Annual increases to a member's base pay are calculated by measuring the increase in private-sector wages and salaries as reflected in the employment cost index (ECI).




What Is E-5 Base Pay?
E-5 base pay is the standard compensation received by an enlisted member of the U.S. military with the E-5 pay grade. E-5 base pay changes annually due to annual pay raises. In 2021, the E-5 base pay for an active duty member ranged from $2,541.60 to $3,606.90 per month.
What Is a Base Year?  

A base year is the first of a series of years in an economic or financial index. In this context, it is typically set to an arbitrary level of 100. New, up-to-date base years are periodically introduced to keep data current in a particular index. Base years are also used to measure the growth of a company. Any year can serve as a base year, but analysts typically choose recent years.





Key Takeaways

A base year is the first of a series of years in an economic or financial index.Base years are also used to measure business activity, such as growth in sales from one period to the next.A base year can be any year and is chosen based on the analysis being performed.


   Understanding Base Year  

A base year is used for comparison in the measure of business activity or economic or financial index. For example, to find the rate of inflation between 2016 and 2021, 2016 is the base year or the first year in the time set. The base year can also describe the starting point from a point of growth or a baseline for calculating same-store sales.



Many financial ratios are based on growth because analysts want to know how much a particular number changes from one period to the next.



The growth rate equation is (Current Year - Base Year) / Base Year.



The past, in ratio analysis, is the base period.



Growth analysis is a commonly used way to describe company performance, particularly for sales. If Company A grows sales from $100,000 to $140,000, this implies that the company increased sales by 40% where $100,000 represents the base year value.






Investors can perform a base-year analysis of a company's financial statements to determine whether or not its bottom line is growing consistently.


   Base Year and Same-Store-Sales Calculations  

Companies are always looking for ways to increase sales. One way that companies grow sales is by opening new stores or branches. New stores have higher growth rates because they are starting from zero, and each new store sale is an incremental sale. As a result, analysts look at additional factors such as how much sales grew on a same-store sales basis. This is also referred to as measuring comparable stores or comp store sales.



In the calculation of comp store sales, the base year represents the starting point for the number of stores and the amount of sales those stores generated. The store sold an average of $1,000 if Company A has 100 stores that sold a total of $100,000 last year. This is the base year. Following this method, the base year determines the base sales and the base number of stores.



Let's say that Company A opens 100 more stores in the following year and these stores generate $50,000, but same-store sales decline in value by 10%, from $100,000 to $90,000. The company can report a 40% growth in sales from $100,000 to $140,000, but savvy analysts are more interested in the 10% decline in same-store sales.




How Is a Base Year Used?
Base years are used to compare or measure business activity or an economic or financial index. For example, a base year is used in the calculation of same-store sales. Base years are also used in calculating gross domestic product (GDP).




How Is a Base Year Chosen?
A base year is determined depending on the analysis being performed. For example, a company established in 2021 could use that year to measure sales growth moving forward.




How Do You Calculate Growth Rate?
A growth rate can be calculated by dividing the difference between the ending and starting values for the period being analyzed and dividing that by the starting value. The growth rate formula is (Current Year - Base Year) / Base Year. The base year represents the starting point from which to determine growth.


   The Bottom Line  

Base years are used in economic and financial indexes as well as to measure the growth of a company. The base year chosen depends on the analysis being conducted. When researching stocks, investors can conduct a base-year analysis to track a company’s growth, or lack of, as part of research to determine whether or not they should invest in it.
What Is Basel I?  

Basel I is a set of international banking regulations established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). It prescribes minimum capital requirements for financial institutions, with the goal of minimizing credit risk. Under Basel I, banks that operate internationally were required to maintain at least a minimum amount of capital (8%) based on their risk-weighted assets. Basel I is the first of three sets of regulations known individually as Basel I, II, and III, and collectively as the Basel Accords.





Key Takeaways

Basel I, the first of three Basel Accords, created a set of rules for banks to follow to mitigate risk.Basel I is now considered too limited in scope, but it laid the framework for the subsequent Basel Accords.With the advent of Basel I, bank assets were classified according to their level of risk, and banks are required to maintain emergency capital based on that classification.Under Basel I, banks were required to keep capital of at least 8% of their determined risk profile on hand.


   History of the Basel Committee  

The BCBS was founded in 1974 as an international forum where members could cooperate on banking supervision matters. The BCBS says it aims to enhance "financial stability by improving supervisory know-how and the quality of banking supervision worldwide." This is done through regulations known as accords.



Basel I, the committee's first accord, was issued in 1988 and focused mainly on credit risk by creating a classification system for bank assets.



The BCBS regulations do not have legal force. Members are responsible for implementation in their home countries. Basel I originally called for a minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%, which was to be implemented by the end of 1992. In September 1993, the BCBS announced that G10 countries' banks with material international banking business were meeting the minimum requirements set out in Basel I. According to the BCBS, the minimum capital ratio framework was adopted not only in its member countries but in virtually every other country with active international banks.


   Benefits of Basel I  

Basel I was developed to mitigate risk to consumers, financial institutions, and the economy at large. Basel II, brought forth some years later, lessened the capital reserve requirements for banks. That came under some criticism, but because Basel II did not supersede Basel I, many banks continued to operate under the original Basel I framework, later supplemented by Basel III addendums.



Perhaps the greatest legacy of Basel I was that it contributed to the ongoing adjustment of banking regulations and best practices, paving the way for further protective measures.


   Criticism of Basel I  

Basel I has been criticized for hampering bank activity and slowing growth in the overall world economy by making less capital available for lending. Critics on the other side of that argument maintain that the Basel I reforms did not go far enough. Both Basel I and Basel II were faulted for their failure to avert the financial crisis and Great Recession of 2007 to 2009, events that became a catalyst for Basel III.






Basel I was developed to mitigate risk to consumers, financial institutions, and the economy at large.


   Requirements for Basel I  

The Basel I classification system groups a bank's assets into five risk categories, labeled with the percentages 0%, 10%, 20%, 50%, and 100%. A bank's assets are assigned to these categories based on the nature of the debtor.



The 0% risk category consists of cash, central bank and government debt, and any Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) government debt. Public sector debt can be placed in the 0%, 10%, 20%, or 50% category, depending on the debtor.



Development bank debt, OECD bank debt, OECD securities firm debt, non-OECD bank debt (under one year of maturity), non-OECD public sector debt, and cash in collection all fall into the 20% category. The 50% category is for residential mortgages, and the 100% category is represented by private sector debt, non-OECD bank debt (maturity over a year), real estate, plant and equipment, and capital instruments issued at other banks.



The bank must maintain capital (referred to as Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 8% of its risk-weighted assets. This is meant to ensure that banks hold an adequate amount of capital to meet their obligations. For example, if a bank has risk-weighted assets of $100 million, it is required to maintain capital of at least $8 million. Tier 1 capital is the most liquid type and represents the core funding of the bank, while Tier 2 capital includes less liquid hybrid capital instruments, loan-loss and revaluation reserves, as well as undisclosed reserves. 




What Is Basel I?
Basel I is the first of three sets of international banking regulations established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, based in Basel, Switzerland. It has since been supplemented by Basel II and Basel III, the latter of which is still implemented as of 2022.




What Is the Purpose of Basel I?
The purpose of Basel I was to establish an international standard for how much capital banks must keep in reserve in order to meet their obligations. Its regulations were intended to enhance the safety and stability of the banking system worldwide.




How Is Basel I Different From Basel II and Basel III?
Basel I introduced guidelines for how much capital banks must keep in reserve based on the risk level of their assets. Basel II refined those guidelines and added new requirements. Basel III further refined the rules based in part on the lessons learned from the worldwide financial crisis of 2007 to 2009.


   The Bottom Line  

Basel I was the earliest of the three Basel Accords and introduced capital reserve requirements for banks based on the riskiness of their assets. It has since been supplemented by Basel II and Basel III.
What Is Basel II?  

Basel II is a set of international banking regulations first released in 2004 by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. It expanded the rules for minimum capital requirements established under Basel I, the first international regulatory accord, provided a framework for regulatory supervision and set new disclosure requirements for assessing the capital adequacy of banks.





Key takeaways

Basel II, the second of three Basel Accords, has three main tenets: minimum capital requirements, regulatory supervision, and market discipline.Building on Basel I, Basel II provided guidelines for the calculation of minimum regulatory capital ratios and confirmed the requirement that banks maintain a capital reserve equal to at least 8% of their risk-weighted assets.The second pillar of Basel II, regulatory supervision, provides a framework for national regulatory bodies to deal with systemic risk, liquidity risk, and legal risks, among others.One weakness of Basel II emerged during the subprime mortgage meltdown and Great Recession of 2008 when it became clear that Basel II underestimated the risks involved in current banking practices and that the financial system was overleveraged and undercapitalized.


   Understanding Basel II  

Basel II is the second of three Basel Accords. It is based on three main "pillars": minimum capital requirements, regulatory supervision, and market discipline. Minimum capital requirements play the most important role in Basel II and obligate banks to maintain certain ratios of capital to their risk-weighted assets.



Because banking regulations varied significantly among countries before the introduction of the Basel Accords, the unified framework of Basel I (and subsequently, Basel II) helped countries standardize their rules and alleviate market anxiety regarding risks in the banking system. The Basel Framework currently consists of 14 standards.



The Basel Committee is made up of 45 members from 28 countries and other jurisdictions, representing central banks and supervisory authorities. It has no legal authority to enforce its rules but relies on the regulators in its member countries to do so. Those regulators are expected to follow the Basel rules in full but also have the discretion to impose even stricter ones. For example, in the United States, the regulators are the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


   Basel II Requirements  

Building on Basel I, Basel II provided guidelines for the calculation of minimum regulatory capital ratios and confirmed the requirement that banks maintain a capital reserve equal to at least 8% of their risk-weighted assets.



Basel II divides the eligible regulatory capital of a bank into three tiers. The higher the tier, the more secure and liquid its assets.



Tier 1 capital represents the bank's core capital and is composed of common stock, as well as disclosed reserves and certain other assets. At least 4% of the bank's capital reserve must be in the form of Tier 1 assets.






Minimum capital requirements play the most important role in Basel II and obligate banks to maintain certain ratios of capital to their risk-weighted assets.



Tier 2 is considered supplementary capital and consists of items such as revaluation reserves, hybrid instruments, and medium- and long-term subordinated loans. Tier 3 consists of lower-quality unsecured, subordinated debt.



Basel II also refined the definition of risk-weighted assets, used in calculating whether a bank meets its capital reserve requirements. Risk weighting is intended to discourage banks from taking on excessive amounts of risk in terms of the assets they hold. The main innovation of Basel II in comparison to Basel I is that it takes into account the credit rating of assets in determining their risk weights. The higher the credit rating, the lower the risk weight.


   Regulatory Supervision and Market Discipline  

Regulatory supervision is the second pillar of Basel II and provides a framework for national regulatory bodies to deal with various types of risks, including systemic risk, liquidity risk, and legal risks.



The market discipline pillar introduces various disclosure requirements for banks' risk exposures, risk assessment processes, and capital adequacy. It is intended to foster greater transparency into the soundness of a bank's business practices and allow investors and others to compare banks on equal footing.


   Pros and Cons of Basel II  

On the plus side, Basel II clarified and expanded the regulations introduced by the original Basel I Accord. It also helped regulators begin to address some of the financial innovations and new financial products that had come along since Basel I's debut in 1988.



Basel II was not entirely successful, however, and has even been called a miserable failure in its central mission of making the financial world safer.



The subprime mortgage meltdown and Great Recession of 2008 showed that Basel II underestimated the risks involved in current banking practices and that the financial system was overleveraged and undercapitalized, despite Basel II's requirements.



Even the Bank for International Settlements, the organization behind the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, today acknowledges, "The banking sector entered the financial crisis with too much leverage and inadequate liquidity buffers. These weaknesses were accompanied by poor governance and risk management, as well as inappropriate incentive structures. The dangerous combination of these factors was demonstrated by the mispricing of credit and liquidity risks and excess credit growth."



Responding to the financial crisis, the Basel Committee issued new risk management and supervision guidelines to strengthen Basel II in 2008 and 2009. Those reforms and others issued in 2010 and later represented the beginnings of the next Basel Accord, Basel III, which, as of 2022, is still being phased in.




What Is Basel II?
Basel II is a set of international banking regulations established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, based in Basel, Switzerland. Basel II was released in 2004, with the goal of being phased in over a series of years.




Did Basel II Replace Basel I?
Basel II built upon Basel I, refining and clarifying some of its rules as well as adding new ones, but did not replace it altogether.




What Was Wrong With Basel II?
The beginning of the subprime mortgage meltdown in 2007 and the ensuing worldwide financial crisis showed that the regulations created under Basel I and Basel II were inadequate for curtailing the risks that some banks were taking, and the dangers they posed to the worldwide financial system. Basel III, introduced during the financial crisis and still being phased in, intends to better address those risks.


   The Bottom Line  

Basel II is the second of the three Basel Accords, developed to create international standards for bank regulation and reduce risk in the worldwide banking system. It built on and refined the original Basel Accord, now known as Basel I, and led to Basel III, which aims to address the inadequacies of the two earlier accords.
What Are the Basel Accords?  

The Basel Accords are a series of three sequential banking regulation agreements (Basel I, II, and III) set by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (BCBS).



The Committee provides recommendations on banking and financial regulations, specifically, concerning capital risk, market risk, and operational risk. The accords ensure that financial institutions have enough capital on account to absorb unexpected losses.





Key Takeaways

The Basel Accords refer to a series of three international banking regulatory meetings that established capital requirements and risk measurements for global banks.The accords are designed to ensure that financial institutions maintain enough capital on account to meet their obligations and also absorb unexpected losses.The latest accord, Basel III, was agreed upon in November 2010. Basel III requires banks to have a minimum amount of common equity and a minimum liquidity ratio.


   Understanding the Basel Accords  

The Basel Accords were developed over several years beginning in the 1980s. The BCBS was founded in 1974 as a forum for regular cooperation between its member countries on banking supervisory matters. The BCBS describes its original aim as the enhancement of "financial stability by improving supervisory knowhow and the quality of banking supervision worldwide." Later, the BCBS turned its attention to monitoring and ensuring the capital adequacy of banks and the banking system.



The Basel I accord was originally organized by central bankers from the G10 countries, who were at that time working toward building new international financial structures to replace the recently collapsed Bretton Woods system.



The meetings are named "Basel Accords" since the BCBS is headquartered in the offices of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) located in Basel, Switzerland. Member countries include Australia, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Brazil, China, France, Hong Kong, Italy, Germany, Indonesia, India, Korea, the United States, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Turkey, and Spain.


   Basel I  

The first Basel Accord, known as Basel I, was issued in 1988 and focused on the capital adequacy of financial institutions. The capital adequacy risk (the risk that an unexpected loss would hurt a financial institution), categorizes the assets of financial institutions into five risk categories—0%, 10%, 20%, 50%, and 100%.



Under Basel I, banks that operate internationally must maintain capital (Tier 1 and Tier 2) equal to at least 8% of their risk-weighted assets. This ensures banks hold a certain amount of capital to meet obligations. 



For example, if a bank has risk-weighted assets of $100 million, it is required to maintain capital of at least $8 million. Tier 1 capital is the most liquid and primary funding source of the bank, and tier 2 capital includes less liquid hybrid capital instruments, loan-loss, and revaluation reserves as well as undisclosed reserves. 


   Basel II  

The second Basel Accord, called the Revised Capital Framework but better known as Basel II, served as an update of the original accord. It focused on three main areas: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review of an institution's capital adequacy and internal assessment process, and the effective use of disclosure as a lever to strengthen market discipline and encourage sound banking practices including supervisory review. Together, these areas of focus are known as the three pillars.



Basel II divided the eligible regulatory capital of a bank from two into three tiers. The higher the tier, the less subordinated securities a bank is allowed to include in it. Each tier must be of a certain minimum percentage of the total regulatory capital and is used as a numerator in the calculation of regulatory capital ratios.



The new tier 3 capital is defined as tertiary capital, which many banks hold to support their market risk, commodities risk, and foreign currency risk, derived from trading activities. Tier 3 capital includes a greater variety of debt than tier 1 and tier 2 capital but is of a much lower quality than either of the two. Under the Basel III accords, tier 3 capital was subsequently rescinded.


   Basel III  

In the wake of the Lehman Brothers collapse of 2008 and the ensuing financial crisis, the BCBS decided to update and strengthen the Accords. The BCBS considered poor governance and risk management, inappropriate incentive structures, and an overleveraged banking industry as reasons for the collapse. In November 2010, an agreement was reached regarding the overall design of the capital and liquidity reform package. This agreement is now known as Basel III.



Basel III is a continuation of the three pillars along with additional requirements and safeguards. For example, Basel III requires banks to have a minimum amount of common equity and a minimum liquidity ratio. Basel III also includes additional requirements for what the Accord calls "systemically important banks," or those financial institutions that are considered "too big to fail." In doing so, it got rid of tier 3 capital considerations.



The Basel III reforms have now been integrated into the consolidated Basel Framework, which comprises all of the current and forthcoming standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Basel III tier 1 has now been implemented and all but one of the 27 Committee member countries participated in the Basel III monitoring exercise held in June 2021. The final Basel III framework includes phase-in provisions for the output floor, which will start at 50% on Jan. 1, 2023, rising in annual steps of 5% and be fully phased-in at the 72.5% level from January 2028. These 2023 onward measures have been referred to as Basel 3.1 or Basel IV.
What Is Basel III?  

Basel III is an international regulatory accord that introduced a set of reforms designed to mitigate risk within the international banking sector by requiring banks to maintain certain leverage ratios and keep certain levels of reserve capital on hand. Begun in 2009, it is still being implemented as of 2022.





Key Takeaways

Basel III is an international regulatory accord that introduced a set of reforms designed to improve the regulation, supervision, and risk management of the banking sector.Basel III is an iterative step in the ongoing effort to enhance the banking regulatory framework.A consortium of central banks from 28 countries devised Basel III in 2009, largely in response to the financial crisis of 2007–2008 and ensuing economic recession. As of 2022, it is still in the process of implementation.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding Basel III  

Basel III was rolled out by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision—a consortium of central banks from 28 countries, based in Basel, Switzerland—shortly after the financial crisis of 2007–2008. During that crisis, many banks proved to be overleveraged and undercapitalized, despite earlier reforms.



Although the voluntary deadline for implementing the new rules was originally 2015, the date has been repeatedly pushed back and currently stands at Jan. 1, 2023.



Also referred to as the Third Basel Accord, Basel III is part of a continuing effort to enhance the international banking regulatory framework begun in 1975. It builds on the Basel I and Basel II accords in an effort to improve the banking system’s ability to deal with financial stress, improve risk management, and promote transparency. On a more granular level, Basel III seeks to strengthen the resilience of individual banks to reduce the risk of system-wide shocks and prevent future economic meltdowns.


   Minimum Capital Requirements Under Basel III  

Banks have two main silos of capital that are qualitatively different from one another. Tier 1 refers to a bank’s core capital, equity, and the disclosed reserves that appear on the bank’s financial statements. If a bank experiences significant losses, Tier 1 capital provides a cushion that can allow it to weather stress and maintain a continuity of operations.



By contrast, Tier 2 refers to a bank’s supplementary capital, such as undisclosed reserves and unsecured subordinated debt instruments.



Tier 1 capital is more liquid and considered more secure than Tier 2 capital.



A bank’s total capital is calculated by adding both tiers together. Under Basel III, the minimum total capital ratio that a bank must maintain is 8% of its risk-weighted assets (RWAs), with a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%. The rest can be Tier 2.



While Basel II also imposed a minimum total capital ratio of 8% on banks, Basel III increased the portion of that capital that must be in the form of Tier 1 assets, from 4% to 6%. Basel III also eliminated an even riskier tier of capital, Tier 3, from the calculation.


   Capital Buffers for Tough Times  

Basel III introduced new rules requiring that banks maintain additional reserves known as countercyclical capital buffers—essentially a rainy day fund for banks. These buffers, which may range from 0% to 2.5% of a bank’s RWAs, can be imposed on banks during periods of economic expansion. That way, they should have more capital at the ready during times of economic contraction, such as a recession, when they face greater potential losses.



So, considering both the minimum capital and buffer requirements, a bank could be required to maintain reserves of up to 10.5%.



Countercyclical capital buffers must also consist entirely of Tier 1 assets.


   Leverage and Liquidity Measures  

Basel III likewise introduced new leverage and liquidity requirements aimed at safeguarding against excessive and risky lending, while ensuring that banks have sufficient liquidity during periods of financial stress. In particular, it set a leverage ratio for so-called “global systemically important banks.” The ratio is computed as Tier 1 capital divided by the bank’s total assets, with a minimum ratio requirement of 3%.



In addition, Basel III established several rules related to liquidity. One, the liquidity coverage ratio, requires that banks hold a “sufficient reserve of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) to allow them to survive a period of significant liquidity stress lasting 30 calendar days.” HQLA refers to assets that can be converted into cash quickly, with no significant loss of value.



Another liquidity-related provision is the net stable funding (NSF) ratio, which compares the bank’s “available stable funding” (essentially capital and liabilities with a time horizon of more than one year) with the amount of stable funding that it is required to hold based on the liquidity, outstanding maturities, and risk level of its assets. A bank’s NSF ratio must be at least 100%. The goal of this rule is to create “incentives for banks to fund their activities with more stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis” rather than load up their balance sheets with “relatively cheap and abundant short-term wholesale funding.”




What Is Basel III?
Basel III is the third in a series of international banking reforms known as the Basel Accords.




What Is the Goal of Basel III?
The goal of Basel III is to improve regulation, supervision, and risk management within the worldwide banking sector and to address the inadequacies of Basel I and Basel II, which became clear during the subprime mortgage meltdown and financial crisis of 2007–2008.




When does Basel III go into effect?
Portions of the Basel III agreement have already gone into effect in certain countries. The rest are currently set to begin implementation on Jan. 1, 2023, and to be phased in over five years.


   The Bottom Line  

Basel III is a set of international banking reforms and the third of the Basel Accords. It was created by the Switzerland-based Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, made up of central banks from around the world, including the Federal Reserve in the United States. Basel III aims to address some of the regulatory shortcomings of Basel I and Basel II that became clear during the financial crisis of 2007–2008. Basel III is scheduled for full implementation by 2028.
What Is a Baseline?  

A baseline is a fixed point of reference that is used for comparison purposes. In business, the success of a project or product is often measured against a baseline number for costs, sales, or any number of other variables. A project may exceed a baseline number or fail to meet it.



For example, a company that wants to measure the success of a product line can use the number of units sold during the first year as a baseline against which subsequent annual sales are measured. The baseline serves as the starting point against which all future sales are measured.


   Understanding a Baseline  

A baseline can be any number that serves as a reasonable and defined starting point for comparison purposes. It may be used to evaluate the effects of a change, track the progress of an improvement project, or measure the difference between two periods of time.



For example, a public company will track the performance of each product line by choosing one year as a baseline and measuring all subsequent years against it.



A baseline is typically used when a financial statement or budget analysis is prepared. The statement or analysis uses existing revenues and spending as a baseline for assessing whether a new project is implemented successfully.


  The Baseline in Financial Statement Analysis  

A financial statement analysis that uses a baseline is called horizontal analysis. It compares a company's historical financial information over a number of reporting periods that may be monthly, quarterly, or annually.



The first period in a horizontal analysis is denoted as the baseline period. All subsequent periods are then measured as a percentage of the baseline. So a period that has the same revenue as the baseline would have 100% revenue.






In information technology, there are three commonly-used baseline points: cost, scope, and schedule.



This exercise is useful in spotting trends, looking at areas of growth or decline, and assessing financial performance overall. Ratios like profit margin are also compared horizontally against the baseline year to draw conclusions about a company's ongoing performance.


  The Baseline in Budgeting  

Project budgeting works from what is known as a cost baseline. The cost baseline is the budget approved for the project, usually broken down in some detail by cost category and cost period of time.



If a company opens a new warehouse, for example, and the cost baseline has been set at $100,000 per month every month for 10 months, any monthly cost exceeding $100,000 is a red flag for the budget analyst.



However, project costs inevitably fluctuate from baseline numbers as unknown and unexpected expenses or even, in some cases, savings are realized. The cost baseline can be updated to reflect actual project costs.





Key Takeaways

In horizontal financial analysis, the numbers for the first reporting period serve as the baselines for comparison of subsequent periods.In project budgeting, the approved budget numbers are the baselines for comparison of actual expenses.In information technology management, the baseline is the anticipated or maximal level of performance.


  The Baseline in Information Technology  

In information technology management, a baseline may be set for anticipated or maximal levels of performance. There are three commonly-used baseline points: cost, scope, and schedule.



Software applications used by project management professionals typically are designed to maintain and track these three critical baseline measurements.
What is Basic Earnings Per Share?  

Basic earnings per share (EPS) tells investors how much of a firm's net income was allotted to each share of common stock. It is reported in a company's income statement and is especially informative for businesses with only common stock in their capital structures.


   Understanding Basic Earnings Per Share  

One of the first performance measures to check when analyzing a company’s financial health is its ability to turn a profit. Earnings per share (EPS) is the industry standard that investors rely on to see how well a company has done.



Basic earnings per share is a rough measurement of the amount of a company's profit that can be allocated to one share of its common stock. Businesses with simple capital structures, where only common stock has been issued, need only release this ratio to reveal their profitability. Basic earnings per share does not factor in the dilutive effects of convertible securities.



Basic EPS = (Net income - preferred dividends) ÷ weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period.



Net income can be further broken down into 'continuing operations' P&L and 'total P&L' and preferred dividends should be removed as this income is not available to common stockholders.



If a company has a complex capital structure where the need to issue additional shares might arise then diluted EPS is considered to be a more precise metric than basic EPS. Diluted EPS takes into account all of the outstanding dilutive securities that could potentially be exercised (such as stock options and convertible preferred stock) and shows how such an action would affect earnings per share.



Companies with a complex capital structure must report both basic EPS and diluted EPS to provide a more accurate picture of their earnings. The main difference between basic EPS and diluted EPS is that the latter factors in the assumption that all convertible securities will be exercised. As such, basic EPS will always be the higher of the two since the denominator will always be bigger for the diluted EPS calculation.





Key Takeaways

Basic earnings per share (EPS) tells investors how much of a firm's net income was allotted to each share of common stock.Businesses with simple capital structures, where only common stock has been issued, need only release this ratio to reveal their profitability.Companies with a complex capital structure must report both basic EPS and diluted EPS to provide a more accurate picture of their earnings.


   Basic Earnings Per Share Example   

A company reports net income of $100 million after expenses and taxes. The company issues preferred dividends to its preferred stockholders of $23 million, leaving earnings available to common shareholders of $77 million. The company had 100 million common shares outstanding at the beginning of the year and issued 20 million new common shares in the second half of the year. As a result, the weighted average number of common shares outstanding is 110 million: 100 million shares for the first half of the year and 120 million shares for the second half of the year (100 x 0.5) + (120 x 0.5) = 110. Dividing the earnings available to common shareholders of $77 million by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding of 110 million gives a basic EPS of $0.70.


   Impact of Basic Earnings Per Share  

Stocks trade on multiples of earnings per share, so a rise in basic EPS can cause a stock's price to appreciate in line with the company's increasing earnings on a per share basis.



Increasing basic EPS, however, does not mean the company is generating greater earnings on a gross basis. Companies can repurchase shares, decreasing their share count as a result and spread net income less preferred dividends over fewer common shares. Basic EPS could increase even if absolute earnings decrease with a falling common share count.



Another consideration for basic EPS is its deviation from diluted EPS. If the two EPS measures are increasingly different, it may show that there is a high potential for current common shareholders to be diluted in the future.
The Basic Materials Sector: An Overview  

The basic materials sector is an industry category made up of businesses engaged in the discovery, development, and processing of raw materials. The sector includes companies engaged in mining and metal refining, chemical products, and forestry products.



Within this sector are the companies that supply most of the materials used in construction. That makes the companies and their stocks sensitive to changes in the business cycle. They tend to thrive when the economy is strong.



The category is sometimes referred to simply as the materials sector.


   Basic Materials Explained  

Companies in the basic materials sector are involved in the physical acquisition, development, and initial processing of the many products commonly referred to as raw materials. Oil, gold, and stone are examples.





Key Takeaways

The basic materials sector is made up of companies involved in the discovery, development, and processing of raw materials, from gold and oil to timber.The raw materials they finish are sold for use in nearly all other industry sectors.The sector is particularly sensitive to the ups and downs of the economy.



For the most part, raw materials are naturally occurring resources. Some are considered finite. That is, it takes millions of years for them to develop, well outside the long-range plans of any company. Others are reusable but are not available in infinite quantities at any given point in time.


  The Basic Materials Stock Sector  

For the purposes of stock categorization, the most common materials within the sector are mined products, such as metals and ore, and forestry products, or lumber. The stocks of certain chemical producers and energy sources also are included in the basic materials sector.



Containers and packaging are categorized as basic materials, whether they're made of glass, metal, or cardboard.


  Basic Materials or Not?  

Not all businesses that work with basic materials are included in the sector. For example, while a metal mining company is considered a basic materials processor, a jewelry company, even one which works only with mined metal, is not. It is deemed a retailer or a wholesaler who is a buyer of the basic material.



Not even all chemicals qualify as basic materials. For example, industrial fertilizers and paint additives are categorized as complex cleaning products or pharmaceuticals.






More than 200 mutual funds, index funds, and ETFs focus their investments in the basic materials sector.


  Energy Sources  

Certain energy sources, notably natural gas, are considered basic materials. Crude oil and coal qualify in their natural state as do some refined products such as gasoline.



The refined versions of these products are included because the demand for them is nearly universal. They are critical to the operation of almost every industry.


  Demand for Basic Materials  

The basic materials sector is subject to the law of supply and demand in the same way as consumer goods are. In fact, they are closely interrelated. If the demand for consumer goods drops, the demand for the raw materials involved in their production also drops.



The basic materials sector also is affected by shifts in the housing market as many raw materials are finished in order to be used in construction projects. If new housing development slows, the demand for lumber products decreases.





Key Takeaways

The basic materials sector is made up of companies involved in the discovery, development, and processing of raw materials.Most industries rely on companies in this sector for the raw materials they need to manufacture their goods.Basic materials are substances that occur naturally such as oil, stone, and gold.The basic materials sector is subject to supply and demand.


   Examples of Basic Materials Companies  

Three of the biggest American companies are included in the basic materials sector, and all three are involved in the oil business. These are Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp., and the oil field services company Schlumberger Ltd.



DuPont de Nemours and Co. and Monsanto Co., both chemicals companies, are listed in this sector. So are two big producers of construction materials, Vulcan Materials Co., a producer of crushed stone, gravel, and concrete, and Steel Dynamics Inc., a maker of finished steel products.


  Basic Materials Stocks  

More than 300 stock mutual funds, index funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) focus on investments in the basic materials sector.﻿﻿



The many ETFs include Vanguard's Vanguard Materials ETF, Blackrock's iShares Global Materials ETF, and iShares U.S. Basic Materials ETF.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



Mutual funds in the sector sometimes focus narrowly on one segment, such as the Fidelity Select Chemicals Fund and the VanEck Vectors Gold Miners ETF.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿
What Does Basis Mean?  

Although the term "basis" holds various meanings in finance, it most frequently refers to the difference between the prices and the expenses involved in transactions when calculating taxes. Such usage relates to the broader terms "cost basis" or "tax basis" and is specifically used when capital gains or losses are calculated for income tax filings. 





Key Takeaways

In finance, basis is generally used to refer to the expenses or total costs of an investment. It can also be used to refer to the difference between the spot price of an asset and its corresponding derivative futures contract. Basis has important tax implications because it represents the costs associated with a product.



In another context, basis refers to the variation between the spot price of a deliverable commodity and the relative price of the futures contract. Basis may also be used in reference to securities transactions. Simply put, a security's basis is its purchase price after commissions or other expenses.


   Basis in the Futures Market  

In the futures market, basis represents the difference between the cash price of the commodity and the futures price of that commodity. It is a critically important concept for portfolio managers and traders to grasp because the relationship between cash and futures prices affects the value of the contracts used in hedging. But the concept is also fuzzy at times because there are gaps between spot and relative price until the expiry of the nearest contract, therefore the basis is not necessarily accurate.



In addition to the deviations created because of the time gap between the expiry of the futures contract and the spot commodity, there may be other variations due to actuals, different levels of product quality, and delivery locations. In general, the basis is used by investors to gauge the profitability of delivery of cash or the actual and is also used to search for arbitrage opportunities.


   Basis as Cost  

A security's basis is the purchase price after commissions or other expenses. It is also known as cost basis or tax basis. This figure is used to calculate capital gains or losses when a security is sold. For example, let's assume you purchase 1,000 shares of a stock for $7 per share. Your cost basis is equal to the total purchase price, or $7,000.



In the context of IRAs, basis originates from nondeductible IRA contributions and rollover of after-tax amounts. Earnings on these amounts are tax-deferred, similar to earnings on deductible contributions and rollover of pre-tax amounts. Distributions of amounts representing basis in an IRA are tax-free. However, to ensure that this tax-free treatment is realized, the taxpayer must file IRS Form 8606 for any year that basis is added to the IRA and for any year that distributions are made from any of the individual's traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRAs.



Failure to file Form 8606 may result in double taxation of these amounts and an IRS-assessed penalty of $50. For example, let's assume your IRA is worth $100,000, of which $20,000 was nondeductible contributions, which accounts for 20% of the total. This ratio of basis applies to withdrawals, so if you withdraw $40,000, 20% is considered basis and is not taxed, which calculates to $8,000.
A basis point is a common unit of measure for interest rates and other percentages in finance. Basis points are typically expressed with the abbreviations bp, bps, or bips.



One basis point is equal to 1/100th of 1%, or 0.01%. In decimal form, one basis point appears as 0.0001 (0.01/100). Basis points (BPS) are used to show the change in the value or rate of a financial instrument, such as 1% change equals a change of 100 basis points and 0.01% change equals one basis point.





Key Takeaways

A basis point is a standard measure for interest rates and other percentages in finance.One basis point equals 1/100th of 1%, or 0.01% (and .0001 in decimal form). The word basis comes from the base move between two percentages, or the spread between two interest rates.The basis point is commonly used for calculating changes in interest rates, equity indices, and fixed-income security yields.Basis points are also used when referring to the cost of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Basis Points (BPS)  

The word basis in the term basis point comes from the base move between two percentages, or the spread between two interest rates. Since the changes recorded are usually narrow, and because small changes can have outsized outcomes, the basis is a fraction of a percent.



The basis point is commonly used for calculating changes in interest rates, equity indices, and the yield of a fixed-income security. It is common for bonds and loans to be quoted in terms of basis points.



For example, it could be said that the interest rate offered by your bank is 50 basis points higher than the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). A bond whose yield increases from 5% to 5.5% is said to increase by 50 basis points. Interest rates that have risen by 1% are said to have increased by 100 basis points.



If the Federal Reserve Board raises the target interest rate by 25 basis points, it means that rates have risen by 0.25% percentage points. If rates were at 2.50%, and the Fed raised them by 25 basis points, the new interest rate would be 2.75%.





Refresher Course

If you start with a decimal and want the figure in percentage form, multiply by 100. If you start with a percentage and want the figure in decimal form, divide by 100.






   Special Considerations  

By using basis points in the conversation, traders and analysts remove some of the ambiguity or confusion that can arise when talking about percentage moves. For example, if a financial instrument is priced at a 10% rate of interest and the rate experiences a 10% increase, it could conceivably mean that the financial instrument is now 11% (0.10 x (1 + 0.10) or it could mean that it is now 20% (10% + 10% = 20%).



The use of basis points, in this case, makes the meaning clear. If the instrument is priced at a 10% rate of interest and experiences a 100 bp move up, its rate would then be 11%. If the instrument experiences a 1,000 bp move up, it would be 20%.









Basis Points
Percentage Terms




1
0.01%


5
0.05%


10
0.1%


50
0.5%


100
1%


1000
10%


10000
100%





   Price Value of a Basis Point  

The price value of a basis point (PVBP) is a measure of the change in the absolute value of the price of a bond for a one basis point change in yield. This may also be referred to as DV01, or the dollar value change for a one bp move. It is another way to measure interest rate risk and is similar to duration, which measures the percent change in a bond price given a 1% change in rates.



PVBP is just a special case of dollar duration. Instead of using a 100 basis point change, the price value of a basis point simply uses a one basis point change. It does not matter if there is an increase or decrease in rates because such a small move in rates will be about the same in either direction.


   Basis Points and Investments  

Basis points are also used when referring to the cost of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). For example, a mutual fund's annual management expense ratio (MER) of 0.15% will be quoted as 15 bps.



When funds are compared, basis points are used to provide a clearer understanding of the difference in their costs. For example, an analyst may state that a fund with 0.35% in expenses is 10 basis points lower in cost than another with an annual expense of 0.45%.



Since interest rates don't apply to equities, basis points are less commonly used as terminology for price quotes in the stock market. Instead, stock prices are quoted in dollars and cents.




What Is a Basis Point?
Basis point is a term used in finance to refer to changes in values or interest rates. One basis point equals 0.01%. Put differently, 1/100th of 1%, 0.01%, and 0.0001 all express the same thing: one basis point. For example, five basis points could be expressed as 0.05%. Likewise, if an interest rate increased from 5.00% to 5.25%, it moved up by 25 basis points.




Why Use Basis Points Versus Percentages?
The reason that traders use basis points to express changes in value or rate is because it can be clearer and prevent any ambiguity. This can help expedite communications and avoid trading mistakes. Since the values of financial instruments are often highly sensitive to even small changes in underlying interest rates, ensuring clarity can be very important for traders.




Where Does the Term Basis Point Come From?
The term basis point originates from the term basis, which refers to the difference (or spread) between two interest rates.




How Are Basis Points Used?
Oftentimes, traders will use basis points to refer to the change in value of a security or when comparing the rates on different securities. For example, you may hear the term used when yields on corporate bonds and treasury securities are compared.
What Is Basis Risk?  

Basis risk is the financial risk that offsetting investments in a hedging strategy will not experience price changes in entirely opposite directions from each other. This imperfect correlation between the two investments creates the potential for excess gains or losses in a hedging strategy, thus adding risk to the position.


   Understanding Basis Risk  

Offsetting vehicles are generally similar in structure to the investments being hedged, but they are still different enough to cause concern. For example, in the attempt to hedge against a two-year bond with the purchase of Treasury bill futures, there is a risk the Treasury bill and the bond will not fluctuate identically.



To quantify the amount of the basis risk, an investor simply needs to take the current market price of the asset being hedged and subtract the futures price of the contract. For example, if the price of oil is $55 per barrel and the future contract being used to hedge this position is priced at $54.98, the basis is $0.02. When large quantities of shares or contracts are involved in a trade, the total dollar amount, in gains or losses, from basis risk can have a significant impact.





Key Takeaways

Basis risk is the potential risk that arises from mismatches in a hedged position.Basis risk occurs when a hedge is imperfect, so that losses in an investment are not exactly offset by the hedge.Certain investments do not have good hedging instruments, making basis risk more of a concern than with others assets.


   Other Forms of Basis Risk  

Another form of basis risk is known as locational basis risk. This is seen in the commodities markets when a contract does not have the same delivery point as the commodity's seller needs. For example, a natural gas producer in Louisiana has locational basis risk if it decides to hedge its price risk with contracts deliverable in Colorado. If the Louisiana contracts are trading at $3.50 per one million British Thermal Units (MMBtu) and the Colorado contracts are trading at $3.65/MMBtu, the locational basis risk is $0.15/MMBtu.



Product or quality basis risk arises when a contract of one product or quality is used to hedge another product or quality. An often-used example of this is jet fuel being hedged with crude oil or low sulfur diesel fuel because these contracts are far more liquid than derivatives on jet fuel itself. Companies making these trades are generally well aware of the product basis risk but willingly accept the risk instead of not hedging at all.



Calendar basis risk arises when a company or investor hedges a position with a contract that does not expire on the same date as the position being hedged. For example, RBOB gasoline futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) expire on the last calendar day of the month prior to delivery. Thus, a contract deliverable in May expires on April 30. Though this discrepancy may only be for a short period of time, basis risk still exists.
What Is a Basket of Goods?  

The consumer price index (CPI), a common measure of inflation, measures the price change over time for a basket of goods and services. The basket is representative of consumer spending patterns, and the change in its price represents the rate of inflation faced by consumers as a whole.



For example, if the basket's price has increased 5% in the course of the year, consumer inflation can be said to be running at a 5% annual rate. The definition and contents of the measured basket can vary widely by country.



In the U.S., the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) monthly collects the prices of some 94,000 items from a scientifically selected sample of goods and services to assemble its representative basket. The numbers are then adjusted to ensure price changes don't reflect improvements in product quality, and weighted in proportion with consumer spending patterns derived from a separate survey of about 36,000 consumers in a given year.





Key Takeaways

A basket of goods represents consumer spending and is used to track changes in the prices of consumer goods and services over time.The Bureau of Labor Statistics tracks 94,000 prices monthly to assess inflation for more than 200 categories of products and servicesThe U.S. CPI basket includes a 33.3% weighting for shelter costs derived mostly from rents and owners' equivalent.CPI calculations factor in consumer substitution of items rising in price with alternatives and filter out price increases reflecting product improvements.


   Basket of Goods Deconstructed  

With 94,000 prices sampled monthly, the BLS is using a huge basket, because its goal is to get an accurate measure of price changes for consumer goods and services across the U.S. economy.



Broad consumer spending categories like food, energy, apparel and services include subcategories tracking inflation for everything from apples and premium unleaded gasoline to men's underwear and funerals.



The prices of goods and services are gathered mostly from visits by BLS data collectors to some 23,000 retail and service outlets in 75 urban areas.



Items for sampling at each outlet are selected randomly based on odds proportional to how much spending they attract relative to category alternatives in terms of brand, variety and size or weight. Items remain in the sample for four years.



Housing rents and owners' equivalent are based on a survey of rents from 43,000 rental housing units. They make up the bulk of the shelter category, which has a 33.3% weight in the U.S. CPI.


   How the Government Calculates CPI  

After the prices are collected, BLS product specialists make adjustments to ensure the price changes are measuring inflation rather than the cost of product improvements in items such as autos, consumer appliances and electronics.



The prices are used to calculate basic indexes for 211 goods, services, and housing item categories for 32 geographic areas subdividing all U.S. urban areas. The BLS then calculates more than 7,700 item-area combination basic indexes in a way that factors in the substitution of cheaper items for more expensive ones within and between spending categories.



All those item-area indexes are then weighed based on recent two-year results from a detailed consumer spending survey to calculate two versions of the consumer price index.



The CPI for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) reflects the spending patterns of the approximately 93% of U.S. population living in areas where the BLS collects price data. It is the basis of the headlines about the rate of change in consumer prices, or the inflation rate.



The CPI for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) covers 29% of the population, and is limited to households with income derived predominantly from clerical or wage-paying occupations. The CPI-W is used to adjust for inflation the payments due Social Security beneficiaries, military and federal civil service retirees, and food stamps recipients, as well as to adjust federal income tax brackets.


   How Does CPI Relate to Inflation?  

Although the terms CPI and inflation are often used interchangeably, the CPI only measures inflation as experienced by consumers. Other data measure alternative manifestations of inflation. The producer price index (PPI) measures the change in the prices paid by producers, while the employment cost index assesses inflation in the labor market. The BLS also tracks changes in imports and exports prices, while the gross domestic product price deflator is a measure of inflation across the U.S. economy, including exports but not imports.


   Real World Example  

The U.S. CPI (shorthand for the CPI-U measure for all urban consumers) rose 1.2% in March 2022 and was up 8.5% in the preceding 12 months. Gasoline prices rose more than 18% in March, accounting for more than half of the rise in the CPI, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The so-called core CPI excluding the typically more volatile food and energy prices was up 0.3% in March and 6.5% year-over-year.



Because inflation imposes economic costs in terms of added uncertainty, policymakers aim to keep it under control. They often use changes in the representative basket of goods and services as measured by the CPI as one of the benchmarks in setting monetary policy. In the U.S., the Federal Reserve aims for a 2% annual inflation rate, which it has determined is most compatible with its mandate to promote stable prices and maximum employment.



In raising its target for the federal funds rate to a range of 0.75% to 1% in May, the Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) said it expected inflation to return to 2% "with appropriate firming in the stance of monetary policy." In the meantime, "ongoing increases in the target range will be appropriate," the FOMC added.
What Is Basket Trade?  

A basket trade is a type of order used by investment firms and big institutional traders to buy or sell a group of securities simultaneously.





Key Takeaways

A basket trade is a portfolio management strategy used by institutional investors to purchase or sell a large number of securities at the same time.A basket trade typically involves the sale or purchase of 15 or more securities and is generally used to purchase stocks.Trading baskets can be an eclectic mix, from collections of securities to soft commodities to investing products.Different types of weighting criteria are used in basket trades.


   Understanding Basket Trades  

Basket trading is essential for institutional investors and investment funds that wish to hold a large number of securities in certain proportions. As cash moves in and out of the fund, large baskets of securities must be bought or sold simultaneously, so that price movements for each security do not alter the portfolio allocation.



To consider how a basket trade is beneficial to an investment fund, suppose an index fund aims to track its target index by holding most or all the securities of the index. As new cash comes in that could increase the value of the fund, the manager must simultaneously buy a large number of securities in the proportion they are present in the index. If it were not possible to execute a basket trade on all of these securities, then the rapid price movements of the securities would prevent the index fund from holding the securities in the correct proportions.



A basket trade typically involves the sale or purchase of 15 or more securities and is generally used to purchase stocks. Such baskets are typically measured against a benchmark or tracked against an entity, such as an index, to measure their returns.



Suppose an investment fund wishes to take advantage of the volatility in an index. The fund manager creates a long/short basket to track the index. The basket does not actually contain securities. Instead, it has a collection of call and put options.



Baskets can also be used to trade currencies and commodities. For example, an investor may create a basket that includes soft commodities, such as wheat, soybeans, and corn. Most investment or brokerage firms that offer basket trading require a minimum investment amount.



The distribution of dollars between various components of a typical basket can be determined using various types of weightings. For example, dollar-weighting criteria distribute the overall dollar amount for the basket equally between its components. A basket trading strategy that uses share weighting will divide the overall amount equally between blocks of shares.






Basket trades allow investors to create a trade that is tailored to them, that allows for easy allocation across many securities, and that gives them control over their investments.


   Basket Trade Benefits  

Personalized Choice: Investors can create a basket trade that fits their investment objectives. For example, an investor seeking income may create a basket trade that includes only high-yielding dividend stocks. Baskets might contain stocks from a specific sector, or that have a certain market cap.                                  
Easy Allocation: Basket trades make it straightforward for investors to allocate their investments across multiple securities. Investments are typically distributed using share quantity, dollar amount, or percentage weighting. Share quantity assigns an equal number of shares to each holding in the basket. Dollar and percentage allocations use a dollar amount or a percentage amount to distribute securities. For instance, if an investor is using a dollar amount to allocate $50,000 across of basket of 15 securities, $3,333.33 of each security is purchased.
Control: A basket trade helps investors control their investment. Decisions can be made to add or remove individual or multiple securities to the basket. Tracking the performance of a basket trade as a whole also saves time monitoring individual securities and streamlines the administrative process.
What Are BAT Stocks?  

BAT is an acronym referring to three of the largest tech companies in China: Baidu Inc. (BIDU), Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (BABA), and Tencent Holdings Ltd. (0700.Hong Kong, TCEHY). These stocks are frequently compared with the FAANG stocks in the United States: Meta, formerly Facebook (META), Amazon (AMZN), Apple (AAPL), Netflix Inc. (NFLX), and Alphabet (GOOG).





Key Takeaways

BAT stocks is an acronym used to refer to the three largest tech stocks in China: Baidu Inc., Alibaba Holding Group Ltd., and Tencent Holdings Ltd.These companies are often compared to the powerhouse tech stocks in the U.S.: Meta, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Microsoft, and Google.Baidu, founded in 2000, is the most popular search engine in China.Alibaba is an e-commerce firm that operates two main online portals: Taobao, for consumer-to-consumer commerce, and a business-to-consumer counterpart, Tmall.Tencent is the owner of WeChat, a messaging service with over a billion users.


   Understanding BAT Stocks  

As is usually the case in the financial world, there are competing attitudes in regard to the value of BAT stocks. Many commentators cite China's rapid economic growth and growing consumer base as signs that BAT presents a solid investment opportunity. Other investors bullish on BAT note that Chinese companies have a larger potential domestic market and have pulled ahead of American firms in some areas, such as mobile payments.



Skeptics, however, point out that Chinese stocks are frequently subject to speculative swings, and that tech is a frothy sector in any case. These investors would likely claim that both FAANG and BAT stocks are overvalued.



Setting aside opinions on the future of BAT stocks, let's take a look at these companies' history and where their finances stand as of 2021.


   Baidu (BIDU)  

Baidu, co-founded by Robin Li and Eric Xu in 2000, is the most popular search engine in China. According to the company, Baidu's portfolio of products and services reaches over one billion devices each month. Baidu has been listed on the NASDAQ since Aug. 2005 and was dual-listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (SEHK) in March 2021.



It offers an encyclopedia similar to Wikipedia, though editing permissions are more tightly controlled. Other services include maps, social media, and music. The company also researches artificial intelligence and self-driving cars.



As of Aug. 2021, Baidu controls 76.91% of the domestic market share in the search engine industry. Its market cap stood at $58 billion in Sept. 2021. The company brought in roughly $16.4 billion in revenue in FY2020, a slight decrease from 2019's revenue of $16.5 billion.



Robin Li, one of the company's co-founders, has served as CEO of Baidu since 2000.


   Alibaba (BABA)  

Alibaba Holding Group Ltd. (BABA), sometimes referred to as "China's Amazon," is a multi-faceted company comprised of core commerce, cloud computing, digital media and entertainment, and innovation initiatives. Alibaba's e-commerce firm operates via two main online portals: Taobao, for consumer-to-consumer commerce, and a business-to-consumer counterpart, Tmall.



The company also created Alipay, which provides payment other financial services for consumers and merchants that operate on its platforms.



According to the company, Alibaba was founded in 1999 by 18 individuals and led by Jack Ma, a former English teacher from Hangzhou, China. As of June 30, 2021, annual active consumers for the Alibaba Ecosystem reached a milestone of over 1.18 billion, including 912 million consumers within China and approximately 265 million consumers outside China.



As of Sept. 7, 2021, Alibaba Group has a market cap of $476.96 billion. The company reported total revenue for fiscal year 2021 at $109.48 billion in US dollars, a 41% increase from the year before, which stood at roughly $78.98 billion.



Daniel Zhang has served as the company's CEO since 2015.


   Tencent  

Tencent, founded in 1998 in Shenzen, China, is a multi-faceted tech company whose platform offers numerous products and services including social media, music, web portals, e-commerce, mobile games, internet services, payment systems, smartphones, and multiplayer online games. Tencent is also the owner of WeChat, a messaging service with more than 1 billion users per month.



The app supports a popular payments service as well as a number of other features, leading FastCompany to call it China's "app for everything." One notable multiplayer online game owned by Tencent is Clash of Clans, which boasts tens of millions of users. 



As of Sept. 7, 2021, Tencent has a market cap of $646.74 billion. The company reported revenue of $74.69 billion in US dollars in FY 2020, and $58.46 billion in FY 2019, marking a 27.7% increase.



Pony Ma, one of the company's co-founders, serves as the Tencent CEO.
What Is Batch Processing?  

Batch processing is the processing of transactions in a group or batch. No user interaction is required once batch processing is underway. This differentiates batch processing from transaction processing, which involves processing transactions one at a time and requires user interaction.



While batch processing can be carried out at any time, it's particularly suited to end-of-cycle processing, such as for processing a bank's reports at the end of a day or generating monthly or biweekly payrolls.





Key Takeaways

Batch processing is a technique for automating and processing multiple transactions as a single group.Batch processing helps in handling tasks like payroll, end-of-month reconciliation, or settling trades overnight.Batch processing systems can save money and labor over time, but they may be costly to design and implement up-front.


   Understanding Batch Processing  

For large enterprises, batch processing became a normal way of data compilation, organization, and report generation around the middle of the 20th century with the introduction of the mainframe computer. The early mechanics of processing a batch involved feeding a computer a stack of punched cards that held commands, or directions, for the computer to follow.



Herman Hollerith (1860-1929) is credited with developing the punch card around 1890 when he was employed as a statistician for the U.S. Census Bureau. It was this punch card that became the foundation for widespread batch processing around 50 years later.



Batch processing jobs are run at regularly scheduled times (e.g., overnight) or on an as-needed basis. As an example, bills for utilities and other services received by consumers are typically generated by batch processing each month. Batch processing is beneficial because it is a cost-effective means of handling large amounts of data at once. One caveat is that the inputs for the processing must be correct or else the results of the whole batch will be faulty, wasting time and money.


   History of Batch Processing  

A defining characteristic of batch processing is minimal human intervention, with few, if any, manual processes required. This is part of what makes it so efficient, though it wasn't always that way.



Batch processing started with punch cards, which were tabulated into instructions for computers. Entire decks, or batches, of cards, would be processed at one time. This system, created by Herman Hollerith, goes as far back as 1890. Hollerith developed it to be used to process data from the U.S. Census. Punched manually, the card was fed into and read by an electromechanical device. Hollerith patented his invention as the "Electronic Tabulating Machine", and later joined a group of other inventors and investors to form the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company (CTR), which would eventually become International Business Machines, or IBM.






Batch processing started out with the use of paper punch cards.



Unlike earlier iterations, the functions of modern batch processing are completely automated to meet certain conditions of time. While some tasks are done immediately, others are conducted in real-time and monitored on a regular basis. If there are any problems with the process, the system notifies the appropriate personnel through exception-based management alerts. This automation provides managers time for other duties.



The software identifies exceptions through a system of monitors and dependencies, which causes the batch processing to start. Exceptions may include online customer orders or a request from the system for new supplies.






Because batch processing involves handling large amounts of data at once, if the inputs are off in any way the whole batch will be flawed, wasting time and money.


   Advantages of Batch Processing  
  Faster and Lower Cost  

Operational costs such as labor and equipment are cut with batch processing because it cuts the need for human oversight physical hardware like computers. And because batch processing is designed to be quick, efficient and error-free, personnel can focus on other duties.


  Offline Features  

Unlike others, batch processing systems work anywhere, any time. That means they continue to work outside regular business hours. They can also work in the background in an offline setting, so even during down periods, they'll still work without putting a dent in the organization's daily routine.


  Hands-Off Approach  

As mentioned above, having a batch processing system in place gives managers and other key personnel time to do their own jobs without having to spend time supervising batches. Alerts are sent when problems arise. This allows workers a hands-off approach to batch processing.


   Disadvantages of Batch Processing  

Business owners may want to consider a few of the pitfalls of batch processing before putting such a system into place.


  Deployment and Training  

Like many technologies, training is required to manage batch processing systems. Managers will need to learn what triggers a batch, how to schedule processing, and what exception notifications mean, among other things.


  Debugging  

The systems are often complex, requiring someone on staff to be familiar with the program. Otherwise, companies or organizations may need to hire an information technology specialist for help.


  Cost  

Batch processing infrastructure can be an expensive upfront investment. For some businesses, the costs may not seem feasible.
Bayes' Theorem, named after 18th-century British mathematician Thomas Bayes, is a mathematical formula for determining conditional probability. Conditional probability is the likelihood of an outcome occurring, based on a previous outcome having occurred in similar circumstances. Bayes' theorem provides a way to revise existing predictions or theories (update probabilities) given new or additional evidence.



In finance, Bayes' Theorem can be used to rate the risk of lending money to potential borrowers. The theorem is also called Bayes' Rule or Bayes' Law and is the foundation of the field of Bayesian statistics.





Key Takeaways

Bayes' Theorem allows you to update the predicted probabilities of an event by incorporating new information.Bayes' Theorem was named after 18th-century mathematician Thomas Bayes.It often is employed in finance in calculating or updating risk evaluation.The theorem has become a useful element in the implementation of machine learning.The theorem was unused for two centuries because of the high volume of calculation capacity required to execute its transactions.


   Understanding Bayes' Theorem  

Applications of Bayes' Theorem are widespread and not limited to the financial realm. For example, Bayes' theorem can be used to determine the accuracy of medical test results by taking into consideration how likely any given person is to have a disease and the general accuracy of the test. Bayes' theorem relies on incorporating prior probability distributions in order to generate posterior probabilities.



Prior probability, in Bayesian statistical inference, is the probability of an event occurring before new data is collected. In other words, it represents the best rational assessment of the probability of a particular outcome based on current knowledge before an experiment is performed.



Posterior probability is the revised probability of an event occurring after taking into consideration the new information. Posterior probability is calculated by updating the prior probability using Bayes' theorem. In statistical terms, the posterior probability is the probability of event A occurring given that event B has occurred.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Special Considerations  

Bayes' Theorem thus gives the probability of an event based on new information that is or may be related to that event. The formula also can be used to determine how the probability of an event occurring may be affected by hypothetical new information, supposing the new information will turn out to be true.



For instance, consider drawing a single card from a complete deck of 52 cards.



There are four kings in the deck, so the probability that the card is a king is four divided by 52, which equals 1/13 or approximately 7.69%. Now, suppose it is revealed that the selected card is a face card. The probability the selected card is a king, given it is a face card, is four divided by 12, or approximately 33.3%, as there are 12 face cards in a deck.


   Formula for Bayes' Theorem  
















P



(


A


∣


B


)



=




P



(


A


⋂


B


)





P



(


B


)





=




P



(


A


)



⋅



P



(


B


∣


A


)






P



(


B


)



















where:
















P



(


A


)



=


 The probability of A occurring
















P



(


B


)



=


 The probability of B occurring
















P



(


A


∣


B


)



=


The probability of A given B
















P



(


B


∣


A


)



=


 The probability of B given A
















P



(


A


⋂


B


)



)


=


 The probability of both A and B occurring







\begin{aligned} &P\left(A|B\right)=\frac{P\left(A\bigcap{B}\right)}{P\left(B\right)}=\frac{P\left(A\right)\cdot{P\left(B|A\right)}}{P\left(B\right)}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &P\left(A\right)=\text{ The probability of A occurring}\\ &P\left(B\right)=\text{ The probability of B occurring}\\ &P\left(A|B\right)=\text{The probability of A given B}\\ &P\left(B|A\right)=\text{ The probability of B given A}\\ &P\left(A\bigcap{B}\right))=\text{ The probability of both A and B occurring}\\ \end{aligned}


​P(A∣B)=P(B)P(A⋂B)​=P(B)P(A)⋅P(B∣A)​where:P(A)= The probability of A occurringP(B)= The probability of B occurringP(A∣B)=The probability of A given BP(B∣A)= The probability of B given AP(A⋂B))= The probability of both A and B occurring​


   Examples of Bayes' Theorem  

Below are two examples of Bayes' Theorem in which the first example shows how the formula can be derived in a stock investing example using Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN). The second example applies Bayes' theorem to pharmaceutical drug testing.


  Deriving the Bayes' Theorem Formula  

Bayes' Theorem follows simply from the axioms of conditional probability, which is the probability of an event given that another event occurred. For example, a simple probability question may ask: "What is the probability of Amazon.com's stock price falling?" Conditional probability takes this question a step further by asking: "What is the probability of the AMZN stock price falling given that the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) index fell earlier?"



The conditional probability of A given that B has happened can be expressed as:



If A is: "AMZN price falls" then P(AMZN) is the probability that AMZN falls; and B is: "DJIA is already down," and P(DJIA) is the probability that the DJIA fell; then the conditional probability expression reads as "the probability that AMZN drops given a DJIA decline is equal to the probability that AMZN price declines and DJIA declines over the probability of a decrease in the DJIA index.



P(AMZN|DJIA) = P(AMZN and DJIA) / P(DJIA)



P(AMZN and DJIA) is the probability of both A and B occurring. This is also the same as the probability of A occurring multiplied by the probability that B occurs given that A occurs, expressed as P(AMZN) x P(DJIA|AMZN). The fact that these two expressions are equal leads to Bayes' theorem, which is written as:



if, P(AMZN and DJIA) = P(AMZN) x P(DJIA|AMZN) = P(DJIA) x P(AMZN|DJIA)



then, P(AMZN|DJIA) = [P(AMZN) x P(DJIA|AMZN)] / P(DJIA).



Where P(AMZN) and P(DJIA) are the probabilities of Amazon and the Dow Jones falling, without regard to each other.



The formula explains the relationship between the probability of the hypothesis before seeing the evidence that P(AMZN), and the probability of the hypothesis after getting the evidence P(AMZN|DJIA), given a hypothesis for Amazon given evidence in the Dow.


  Numerical Example of Bayes' Theorem  

As a numerical example, imagine there is a drug test that is 98% accurate, meaning that 98% of the time, it shows a true positive result for someone using the drug, and 98% of the time, it shows a true negative result for nonusers of the drug.



Next, assume 0.5% of people use the drug. If a person selected at random tests positive for the drug, the following calculation can be made to determine the probability the person is actually a user of the drug.



(0.98 x 0.005) / [(0.98 x 0.005) + ((1 - 0.98) x (1 - 0.005))] = 0.0049 / (0.0049 + 0.0199) = 19.76%



Bayes' Theorem shows that even if a person tested positive in this scenario, there is a roughly 80% chance the person does not take the drug.




What Is the History of Bayes' Theorem?
The theorem was discovered among the papers of the English Presbyterian minister and mathematician Thomas Bayes and published posthumously by being read to the Royal Society in 1764. Long ignored in favor of Boolean calculations, advances in calculation capacity have led to an increase in applications using Bayes' theorem. It is now applied to a wide variety of probability calculations, including financial calculations, genetics, drug use, and disease control.




What Does Bayes' Theorem State?
Bayes' Theorem states that the conditional probability of an event, based on the occurrence of another event, is equal to the likelihood of the second event given the first event multiplied by the probability of the first event.




What Is Calculated in Bayes' Theorem?
Bayes' Theorem calculates the conditional probability of an event, based on the values of specific related known probabilities.




What Is a Bayes' Theorem Calculator?
A Bayes’ Theorem Calculator figures the probability of Event A conditional on Event B, given the prior probabilities of A and B, and the probability of B conditional on A. It calculates conditional probabilities based on known probabilities.




How Is Bayes' Theorem Used in Machine Learning?
Bayes Theorem provides a useful method for thinking about the relationship between a data set and a probability. In other words, the theorem says that the probability of a given hypothesis being true based on specific observed data can be stated as finding the probability of observing the data given the hypothesis multiplied by the probability of the hypothesis being true regardless of the data, divided by the probability of observing the data regardless of the hypothesis.


   The Bottom Line  

At its simplest, Bayes' Theorem takes a test result and relates it to the conditional probability of that test result given other related events. For high-probability false positives, the Theorem gives a more reasoned likelihood of a particular outcome.
What Is a BCG Growth-Share Matrix?  

The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) growth-share matrix is a planning tool that uses graphical representations of a company’s products and services in an effort to help the company decide what it should keep, sell, or invest more in.



The matrix plots a company’s offerings in a four-square matrix, with the y-axis representing the rate of market growth and the x-axis representing market share. It was introduced by the Boston Consulting Group in 1970.





Key Takeaways

The BCG growth-share matrix is a tool used internally by management to assess the current state of value of a firm's units or product lines.BCG stands for the Boston Consulting Group, a well-respected management consulting firm.The growth-share matrix aids the company in deciding which products or units to either keep, sell, or invest more in.The BCG growth-share matrix contains four distinct categories: dogs, cash cows, stars, and question marks.The matrix helps companies decide how to prioritize their various business activities.


   Understanding a BCG Growth-Share Matrix  

The BCG growth-share matrix breaks down products into four categories, known simply as dogs, cash cows, stars, and question marks. Each category quadrant has its own set of unique characteristics.


  Dogs (or Pets)  

If a company’s product has a low market share and is at a low rate of growth, it is considered a dog and should be sold, liquidated, or repositioned. Dogs, found in the lower right quadrant of the grid, don't generate much cash for the company since they have a low market share and little to no growth. Because of this, dogs can turn out to be cash traps, tying up company funds for long periods of time. For this reason, they are prime candidates for divestiture.















BCG Growth-Share Matrix.


  Cash Cows  

Products that are in low-growth areas but for which the company has a relatively large market share are considered cash cows, and the company should thus milk the cash cow for as long as it can. Cash cows, seen in the lower left quadrant, are typically leading products in markets that are mature.



These products generally generate returns that are higher than the market's growth rate and sustain itself from a cash flow perspective. These products should be taken advantage of for as long as possible. The value of cash cows can be easily calculated since their cash flow patterns are highly predictable. In effect, low-growth, high-share cash cows should be milked for cash to reinvest in high-growth, high-share stars with high future potential.






The matrix is not a predictive tool; it takes into account neither new, disruptive products entering the market nor rapid shifts in consumer demand.


  Stars  

Products that are in high-growth markets and that make up a sizable portion of that market are considered stars and should be invested in more. In the upper left quadrant are stars, which generate high income but also consume large amounts of company cash. If a star can remain a market leader, it eventually becomes a cash cow when the market's overall growth rate declines.


  Question Marks  

Questionable opportunities are those in high growth rate markets but in which the company does not maintain a large market share. Question marks are in the upper right portion of the grid. They typically grow fast but consume large amounts of company resources. Products in this quadrant should be analyzed frequently and closely to see if they are worth maintaining.﻿﻿


   Limitations of the Matrix  

One thing to note is that the matrix is a decision-making tool. This means that it does not necessarily take into account all the factors that a business ultimately must face. For example, increasing market share may be more expensive than the additional revenue gained from new sales. Because product development may take years, businesses must plan for contingencies carefully.



Since the matrix only classifies businesses as low and high, it does leave mid-sized businesses out of the mix. These types of companies often make up a big part of the market, so leaving them out means that the business environment isn't truly reflected.



The BCG matrix assumes that all businesses operate independently of one another. But that isn't always necessarily true. Certain players in the market, such as dogs, may end up giving others a boost—sometimes unintentionally.






Bruce Henderson, who founded BCG, created the concept of the growth matrix in 1970.


   Example of a BCG Growth Matrix  

There are many companies that we can apply the growth matrix to in the real world. Apple (AAPL) is a great candidate. Let's take a look at the products Apple has on the market according to the matrix categories:



Star: iPhoneCash Cow: MacbookQuestion Mark: Apple TVDog: iPad



In 2022, the company earned $394.33 billion in net sales, out of which almost $316.2 billion was attributed to its products section. The remaining $78.13 billion came from its services division:



There's no doubt that the majority of Apple's sales come from its most popular product. The iPhone brought in $205.49 billion in sales for the year. In this case, it's considered the company's star.
The cash cow for the company is its Mac products—notably the Macbook laptop, which is one of the most popular in this group. Sales for Mac products came in at $40.18 billion for the fiscal year (FY).
One of the question marks for Apple is its Apple TV streaming service, which falls under the Services category. The competition in the streaming world is intense, with traditional services like Netflix, Hulu, Disney+ dominating the market. But others like YouTube and Vimeo are also eating away at market share. In 2022, Apple's Services division earned $78.13 billion in sales.
Once a darling of the company, the iPad is now considered a dog. Apple's tablet continues to show low growth, as sales continue to decline. Sales for the year came in at $29.29 billion, compared to $31.86 billion in 2021.




What Are the 4 Quadrants of the BCG Matrix?
The BCG Growth-Share Matrix uses a 2x2 grid with growth on one axis and market share on the other. Each of the four quadrants represents a specific combination of relative market share and growth:Low Growth, High Share: Companies should milk these cash cows for cash to reinvest elsewhere.High Growth, High Share: Companies should significantly invest in these stars as they have high future potential.High Growth, Low Share: Companies should invest in or discard these question marks, depending on their chances of becoming stars.Low Share, Low Growth: Companies should liquidate, divest, or reposition these pets.




How Does the BCG Matrix Work?
The BCG Growth-Share Matrix considers a company's growth prospects and available market share via a 2x2 grid. By assigning each business to one of these four categories, executives can then decide where to focus their resources and capital to generate the most value, as well as where to cut their losses.




Is the BCG Matrix Used in the Real World?
According to BCG, at the height of its success, the growth share matrix was used by about half of all Fortune 500 companies; today, it is still central in business school teachings on business strategy.


   The Bottom Line  

The BCG Growth-Share Matrix is a business management tool that allows companies to identify the aspects of their business that should be prioritized and which might be jettisoned. By constructing a 2x2 table along the dimensions of growth and market share, a company's businesses can be categorized into one of four classifications: stars, pets, cash cows, and question marks.
What Is a Beacon Score?  

A Beacon score is one of many credit scoring models developed by FICO, the major company in that field. It is still in use today but is currently branded simply as a FICO score. In years past it was often referred to as an Equifax Beacon score, after the credit bureau Equifax. For example, a Beacon 5.0 score is now known as a FICO Score 5, according to FICO. That score remains in wide use in the mortgage industry.





Key Takeaways

The Beacon score is one of many credit scoring models developed by FICO.It was later rebranded and is now known simply as a FICO score. FICO scores are based on information collected by the three major credit bureaus—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion—each of which offers multiple FICO scores. The three bureaus also developed and offer a FICO competitor, the VantageScore.


   How FICO Credit Scores Work Today  

The three major credit bureaus—Equifax, Experian, and Transunion—compile information on the credit habits of individual consumers in the form of credit reports. That information is then used to compute a credit score for the individual, using a variety of different methodologies. Credit scores are three-digit numbers—typically between 300 and 850—intended to grade the person's creditworthiness. The higher the number, the more creditworthy (and less risky) they are judged to be.



Since its introduction in 1989 by the Fair Isaac Corporation, the FICO score has undergone a number of revisions in an attempt to make it more precise and predictive. It has also seen some name changes. In addition to the Beacon score, another early scoring model, the Pinnacle score, has since been re-branded as FICO Score NG (short for NextGen). So, for example, the former Pinnacle 2.0 is now known as FICO Score NG 2.



As the scoring systems have evolved, some lenders and other businesses have continued to use the older models they are most comfortable and familiar with. In addition, FICO has developed scoring models specific to certain types of lenders. As a result, most individuals who use credit will have multiple different credit scores rather than a single one.



For example, Equifax currently offers at least 13 different FICO scores in the United States. Those include FICO Score 8, which remains the most common FICO score, and FICO Score 9, a more recent model, along with the latest versions, FICO Score 10 and FICO Score 10T.



Industry-specific models from Equifax include FICO Score 5 for mortgage lenders; FICO Auto Score 5, FICO Auto Score 8, and FICO Auto Score 9 for lenders that make car loans; and FICO Bankcard Score 5, FICO Bankcard Score 8, and FICO Bankcard Score 9 for credit card issuers.



Experian and TransUnion offer comparable lists of different FICO score versions.



While Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion continue to work with FICO and issue FICO scores, the three credit bureaus jointly created a FICO competitor, VantageScore, in 2006. Its latest version, VantageScore 4.0, was launched in 2017.



Like FICO scores, VantageScores are based on the information in individuals' credit reports and expressed as a number between 300 and 850. However, there are some key differences. For example, Equifax notes, "To have a FICO score, consumers must have one or more credit accounts that have been open for at least six months and... been reported to the three nationwide credit bureaus within six months. VantageScore credit scores can be calculated if consumers have one or more credit accounts that have been open for at least one month and one account reported within the past two years."


   How to Improve Your Credit Score  

Both FICO and VantageScores assign weightings to the information in consumers' credit reports. FICO, for example, generally weights it as follows:



Payment history: 35%. This category reflects whether the person has paid their credit bills on time or missed any payments.
Amounts owed: 30%. More important than how much someone owes is how much they owe as a percentage of all the credit they have available to them, referred to as their credit utilization ratio.
Length of credit history: 15%. Older accounts count for more than newer ones, assuming the person has made timely payments on them.
Credit mix: 10%. Individuals get points for demonstrating that they have responsibly used more than one kind of credit, such as a credit card and an auto loan.
New Credit: 10%. In general, the scoring models will penalize a consumer who has taken on a lot of new debt recently. Lenders consider that a red flag that they may be in some sort of financial difficulty.



While VantageScores use slightly different weightings and the industry-specific scoring models also look at other factors, consumers can maintain good credit scores overall by always paying their credit bills on time, keeping their credit utilization ratio relatively low, and hanging on to their older accounts.


   How Can You Find Out Your Credit Score?  

You can obtain your credit score free of charge from many banks and credit card issuers. There are also websites that provide free credit scores. Bear in mind that you probably have multiple credit scores and whichever one you obtain may not be identical to one that a lender will use if you apply for a loan.


   How Can You Obtain Your Credit Reports?  

By law, you're entitled to a free copy of your credit report from each of the three major credit bureaus at least once a year. The official website for that purpose is AnnualCreditReport.com. If you find any information you believe to be in error, you can dispute it with the credit bureau and the bureau is legally required to investigate and report back to you on its findings.


   Aren't All Three Credit Reports the Same?  

Not necessarily. The credit bureaus obtain their information on you from your creditors, such as credit card issuers, mortgage lenders, and so forth. Not all creditors provide information to all three credit bureaus (and some don't provide information to any of them), so your credit report can differ from one bureau to another. That can also have an effect on your credit scores.


   What Is a Good Credit Utilization Ratio?  

Generally speaking, the lower your credit utilization ratio, the better. Equifax, for example, recommends keeping it at or below 30%.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit scoring models and the brand names assigned to them have changed over the years. But the kinds of credit habits that will help you build and keep a good credit score have remained relatively constant.
What Is a Bear Call Spread?  

A bear call spread, or a bear call credit spread, is a type of options strategy used when an options trader expects a decline in the price of the underlying asset. A bear call spread is achieved by simultaneously selling a call option and buying a call option at a higher strike price but with the same expiration date. The maximum profit to be gained using this strategy is equal to the credit received when initiating the trade.



A bear call spread is also called a short call spread. It is considered a limited-risk and limited-reward strategy.





Key Takeaways

Bear call spreads are made by purchasing two call options, one long and one short, at different strike prices but with the same expiration date.Bear call spreads are considered limited-risk and limited-reward because traders can contain their losses or realize reduced profits by using this strategy. The limits of their profits and losses are determined by the strike prices of their call options. 


   Advantages of a Bear Call Spread  

The main advantage of a bear call spread is that the net risk of the trade is reduced. Purchasing the call option with the higher strike price helps offset the risk of selling the call option with the lower strike price. It carries far less risk than shorting the stock or security since the maximum loss is the difference between the two strikes reduced by the amount received, or credited, when the trade is initiated. Selling a stock short theoretically has unlimited risk if the stock moves higher.



If the trader believes the underlying stock or security will fall by a limited amount between the trade date and the expiration date then a bear call spread could be an ideal play. However, if the underlying stock or security falls by a greater amount then the trader gives up the ability to claim that additional profit. It is a trade-off between risk and potential reward that is appealing to many traders.


   Example of a Bear Call Spread  

Let's assume that a stock is trading at $45. An options trader can use a bear call spread by purchasing one call option contract with a strike price of $40 and a cost/premium of $0.50 ($0.50 * 100 shares/contract = $50 premium) and selling one call option contract with a strike price of $30 for $2.50 ($2.50 * 100 shares/contract = $250).



In this case, the investor will receive a net credit of $200 to set up this strategy ($250 - $50). If the price of the underlying asset closes below $30 upon expiration, then the investor will realize a total profit of $200, or the full premium received.



The profit from the bear call spread therefore maxes out if the underlying security closes at $30—the lower strike price—at expiration. If it closes farther below $30 there will not be any additional profit. If it closes between the two strike prices there will be a reduced profit, while closing above the higher strike, $40, will result in a loss of the difference between the two strike prices reduced by the amount of the credit received at the onset.



Max profit = $200 (the credit)Max loss = $800 (the 10 points between the spread strikes x100, minus the initial credit received)












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021
What Is a Bear Hug?  

A bear hug is an offer to buy a publicly listed company at a significant premium to the market price of its shares. It is an acquisition strategy designed to appeal to the target company's shareholders. Bear hugs are used to pressure a reluctant company's board to accept the bid or risk upsetting its shareholders. Unsolicited in nature, a bear hug bidder makes it difficult for the target's board to refuse by offering a price well above the pursued company's market value.





Key Takeaways

A bear hug is an informal offer to acquire a company at a premium to the market price of its stock, made public without the consent of its board.A bear hug counts on the company's shareholders to pressure the board into accepting the proposed terms or entering negotiations with the maker of the offer.A target company that refuses to accept a bear hug risks being sued or challenged in board elections.Without a tender offer for the shares outstanding, a bear hug is not a guarantee the bidder will purchase the company at the stated price.Although they allow acquirers to approach their target's shareholders directly, successful bear hugs may lead to the ouster of the target company.


   Understanding Bear Hugs  

Bear hugs are unsolicited takeover bids. But to qualify as one, the offer must include a meaningful premium to the market value of the target company's stock. Because company boards have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the company and its shareholders, refusing a rich premium risks lawsuits, proxy contests, and other forms of shareholder activism.



Bear hugs can be a costly strategy for the acquirer. As such, they occur when the target company's board has either rejected or would be expected to reject such an advance, necessitating a direct appeal to shareholders.



At a minimum, bear hugs force the targeted company's leadership to explain why the bid (to say nothing of the market) undervalues their stock, and what the company intends to do about the low valuation.



A bear hug puts incumbent management on the defensive and focuses attention on the company's share price. One company chief executive on the receiving end of the tactic described it as "a gradual, rolling dispiriting of the opposition. The whole idea of a bear hug is that it becomes an inevitable, self-fulfilling prophecy."






A bear hug offer, though usually financially favorable, is not solicited by the target company.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Bear Hug  
  Advantages  

A bear hug allows the acquirer to present its bid directly to shareholders, bypassing the targeted company's board. The downside for the pursuer is that the tactic is unlikely to result in friendly talks with the incumbent management and board, who may seek a white knight deal with a different buyer viewed as more acceptable.



Shareholders of a company who receive a bear hug benefit from the prospect of a higher share price on offer. Even if it doesn't lead to a quick deal, a bear hug puts pressure on a company's board and management to get the share price above that offered by the bear hugger.


  Disadvantages  

A bear hug implies incumbent management and board members are not interested in a friendly deal. And, absent a formal tender offer, a bear hug has no sure way to overcome that resistance.



This acquisition tactic has the potential to distract managers and directors of the targeted company to the ultimate detriment of its business and all stakeholders, including the bear hugger if they are successful. Whether directly or by implication, a bear hug draws critical attention to the company's current management and share price.



If the bear hug is ultimately successful, incumbent managers are likely to face an ouster from the new owners. They might have to content themselves with golden parachutes triggered by change-of-control provisions in their executive pay agreements.





Pros

Acquirer can go directly to the shareholders
Potential for offer of deal with higher share price



Cons

Distracts and draws critical attention to management and share price
Management may be ousted if the bear hug is successful





   Examples of Bear Hugs  

Bear hugs can happen when a company's stock falls on hard times or simply because the acquirer places a high value on the targeted business.



Elon Musk's unofficial offer to buy Twitter (now X) in April 2022 at an 18% premium to its market value but a 22% discount to Twitter's share price a year earlier was described as a bear hug. Musk eventually succeeded, taking over the company in Oct. 2022 for $44 billion. The company changed its name to X Corp. in April 2023 and the platform changed its name to X in July 2023.



Earlier examples include:



Xerox's (XRX) pursuit of HP (HPQ) in 2019
An attempt by Exelon (EXC) to acquire NRG Energy (NRG) in 2009
Microsoft's (MSFT) bear hug of Yahoo in 2008



None of those efforts ultimately succeeded.




How Does a Bear Hug Work?
A bear hug is a type of acquisition strategy used by companies to target others. Unlike other types of deals, the acquirer in a bear hug approaches the target company's shareholders rather than its leadership and/or board. Bear hugs are unsolicited deals that involve making an offer to shareholders at a premium above its market value. Shareholders can force the company to accept the offer or go into negotiations with the acquirer.




Why Would a Company Use a Bear Hug as an Acquisition Strategy?
There are several reasons why a company would resort to a bear hug to make an acquisition. Some acquirers choose to do so in order to avoid any conflict with the target company's leadership. The acquirer usually hopes that the board and/or management would be more receptive to the deal by approaching the target's shareholders with an offer above market value.Another reason why some companies may choose to take this route is to cut out the competition. If the target is very attractive, there may be multiple interested parties. By making the offer of a bear hug, it sweetens the pot for shareholders and keeps other acquirers at bay.




What Is a Bear Hug Letter?
A bear hug is an ambitious tactic that companies use to acquire other companies. In some cases, they will send a letter to the target company's board and/or management team or publicly along with the offer, especially if the target is unreceptive to an offer. This is called a bear hug letter. Sending a bear hug letter can be a smart move, especially if the offer comes at a significant premium, as the board has a fiduciary duty to shareholders.


   The Bottom Line  

Hostile takeovers are part and parcel of the corporate world. The bear hug is just one type of takeover attempt that acquirers use. But rather than work their way into the company's board or management by force, they usually sweeten the pot by making shareholders an offer that's well above market value. By doing this, shareholders can then take their reins and force the target's board to either accept or go into talks with the acquirer.
Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   What Is a Bear Market?  

A bear market is when a market experiences prolonged price declines. It typically describes a condition in which securities prices fall 20% or more from recent highs amid widespread pessimism and negative investor sentiment.



Bear markets are often associated with declines in an overall market or index like the S&P 500, but individual securities or commodities can also be considered to be in a bear market if they experience a decline of 20% or more over a sustained period of time—typically two months or more. Bear markets also may accompany general economic downturns such as a recession. Bear markets may be contrasted with upward-trending bull markets.





Key Takeaways

Bear markets occur when prices in a market decline by more than 20%, often accompanied by negative investor sentiment and declining economic prospects.Bear markets can be cyclical or longer-term. The former lasts for several weeks or a couple of months and the latter can last for several years or even decades.Short selling, put options, and inverse ETFs are some of the ways in which investors can make money during a bear market as prices fall.


   Understanding Bear Markets  

Stock prices generally reflect future expectations of cash flows and profits from companies. As growth prospects wane, and expectations are dashed, prices of stocks can decline. Herd behavior, fear, and a rush to protect downside losses can lead to prolonged periods of depressed asset prices.



One definition of a bear market says markets are in bear territory when stocks, on average, fall at least 20% off their high. But 20% is an arbitrary number, just as a 10% decline is an arbitrary benchmark for a correction. Another definition of a bear market is when investors are more risk-averse than risk-seeking. This kind of bear market can last for months or years as investors shun speculation in favor of boring, sure bets.



The causes of a bear market often vary, but in general, a weak or slowing or sluggish economy, bursting market bubbles, pandemics, wars, geopolitical crises, and drastic paradigm shifts in the economy such as shifting to an online economy, are all factors that might cause a bear market. The signs of a weak or slowing economy are typically low employment, low disposable income, weak productivity, and a drop in business profits. In addition, any intervention by the government in the economy can also trigger a bear market.



For example, changes in the tax rate or in the federal funds rate can lead to a bear market. Similarly, a drop in investor confidence may also signal the onset of a bear market. When investors believe something is about to happen, they will take action—in this case, selling off shares to avoid losses. 



Bear markets can last for multiple years or just several weeks. A secular bear market can last anywhere from 10 to 20 years and is characterized by below-average returns on a sustained basis. There may be rallies within secular bear markets where stocks or indexes rally for a period, but the gains are not sustained, and prices revert to lower levels. A cyclical bear market, on the other hand, can last anywhere from a few weeks to several months.



The U.S. major market indexes were close to bear market territory on December 24, 2018, falling just shy of a 20% drawdown. More recently, major indexes including the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) fell sharply into bear market territory between March 11 and March 12, 2020. Prior to that, the last prolonged bear market in the United States occurred between 2007 and 2009 during the Financial Crisis and lasted for roughly 17 months. The S&P 500 lost 50% of its value during that time.



In February 2020, global stocks entered a sudden bear market in the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic, sending the DJIA down 38% from its all-time high on February 12 (29,568.77) to a low on March 23 (18,213.65) in just over one month. However, both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq 100 made new highs by August 2020.






   Phases of a Bear Market  

Bear markets usually have four different phases.



The first phase is characterized by high prices and high investor sentiment. Towards the end of this phase, investors begin to drop out of the markets and take in profits.
In the second phase, stock prices begin to fall sharply, trading activity and corporate profits begin to drop, and economic indicators, that may have once been positive, start to become below average. Some investors begin to panic as sentiment starts to fall. This is referred to as capitulation.
The third phase shows speculators start to enter the market, consequently raising some prices and trading volume.
In the fourth and last phase, stock prices continue to drop, but slowly. As low prices and good news starts to attract investors again, bear markets start to lead to bull markets.





"Bear" and "Bull"

The bear market phenomenon is thought to get its name from the way in which a bear attacks its prey—swiping its paws downward. This is why markets with falling stock prices are called bear markets. Just like the bear market, the bull market may be named after the way in which the bull attacks by thrusting its horns up into the air.






   Bear Markets vs. Corrections  

A bear market should not be confused with a correction, which is a short-term trend that has a duration of fewer than two months. While corrections offer a good time for value investors to find an entry point into stock markets, bear markets rarely provide suitable points of entry. This barrier is because it is almost impossible to determine a bear market's bottom. Trying to recoup losses can be an uphill battle unless investors are short sellers or use other strategies to make gains in falling markets.



Between 1900 and 2018, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) had approximately 33 bear markets, averaging one every three years. One of the most notable bear markets in recent history coincided with the global financial crisis occurring between October 2007 and March 2009. During that time the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) declined 54%. The global COVID-19 pandemic caused the most recent 2020 bear market for the S&P 500 and DJIA. The Nasdaq Composite most recently entered a bear market in March 2022 on fears surrounding war in Ukraine, economic sanctions against Russia, and high inflation.


   Short Selling in Bear Markets  

Investors can make gains in a bear market by short selling. This technique involves selling borrowed shares and buying them back at lower prices. It is an extremely risky trade and can cause heavy losses if it does not work out. A short seller must borrow the shares from a broker before a short sell order is placed. The short seller’s profit and loss amount is the difference between the price where the shares were sold and the price where they were bought back, referred to as "covered."



For example, an investor shorts 100 shares of a stock at $94. The price falls and the shares are covered at $84. The investor pockets a profit of $10 x 100 = $1,000. If the stock trades higher unexpectedly, the investor is forced to buy back the shares at a premium, causing heavy losses. 


   Puts and Inverse ETFs in Bear Markets  

A put option gives the owner the freedom, but not the responsibility, to sell a stock at a specific price on, or before, a certain date. Put options can be used to speculate on falling stock prices, and hedge against falling prices to protect long-only portfolios. Investors must have options privileges in their accounts to make such trades. Outside of a bear market, buying puts is generally safer than short selling.



Inverse ETFs are designed to change values in the opposite direction of the index they track. For example, the inverse ETF for the S&P 500 would increase by 1% if the S&P 500 index decreased by 1%. There are many leveraged inverse ETFs that magnify the returns of the index they track by two and three times. Like options, inverse ETFs can be used to speculate or protect portfolios.







Tips For Retiring In A Bear Market


   Real-World Examples of Bear Markets  

The ballooning housing mortgage default crisis caught up with the stock market in October 2007. Back then, the S&P 500 had touched a high of 1,565.15 on October 9, 2007. By March 5, 2009, it had crashed to 682.55, as the extent and ramifications of housing mortgage defaults on the overall economy became clear. The U.S. major market indexes were again close to bear market territory on December 24, 2018, falling just shy of a 20% drawdown.



Most recently, the Dow Jones Industrial Average went into a bear market on March 11, 2020, and the S&P 500 entered a bear market on March 12, 2020. This followed the longest bull market on record for the index, which started in March 2009. Stocks were driven down by the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, which brought with it mass lockdowns and the fear of depressed consumer demand. During this period, the Dow Jones fell sharply from all-time highs close to 30,000 to lows below 19,000 in a matter of weeks. From February 19 to March 23, the S&P 500 declined 34%.



Other examples include the aftermath of the bursting of the dot com bubble in March 2000, which wiped out approximately 49% of the S&P 500's value and lasted until October 2002; and the Great Depression which began with the stock market collapse of October 28-29, 1929.
What Is a Bear Put Spread?  

A bear put spread is a type of options strategy where an investor or trader expects a moderate-to-large decline in the price of a security or asset and wants to reduce the cost of holding the option trade. A bear put spread is achieved by purchasing put options while also selling the same number of puts on the same asset with the same expiration date at a lower strike price. The maximum profit using this strategy is equal to the difference between the two strike prices, minus the net cost of the options.



A put option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified amount of underlying security at a specified strike price, at or before the option expires.



A bear put spread is also known as a debit put spread or a long put spread.





Key Takeaways

A bear put spread is an options strategy implemented by a bearish investor who wants to maximize profit while minimizing losses.A bear put spread strategy involves the simultaneous purchase and sale of puts for the same underlying asset with the same expiration date but at different strike prices.A bear put spread nets a profit when the price of the underlying security declines.


   The Basics of a Bear Put Spread  

For example, let's assume that a stock is trading at $30. An options trader can use a bear put spread by purchasing one put option contract with a strike price of $35 for a cost of $475 ($4.75 x 100 shares/contract) and selling one put option contract with a strike price of $30 for $175 ($1.75 x 100 shares/contract).



In this case, the investor will need to pay a total of $300 to set up this strategy ($475 – $175). If the price of the underlying asset closes below $30 upon expiration, the investor will realize a total profit of $200. This profit is calculated as $500, the difference in the strike prices ($35 – $30) x 100 shares/contract – $300, the net price of the two contracts [$475 – $175] equals $200.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Bear Put Spread  

The main advantage of a bear put spread is that the net risk of the trade is reduced. Selling the put option with the lower strike price helps offset the cost of purchasing the put option with the higher strike price. Therefore, the net outlay of capital is lower than buying a single put outright. Also, it carries far less risk than shorting the stock or security since the risk is limited to the net cost of the bear put spread. Selling a stock short theoretically has unlimited risk if the stock moves higher.



If the trader believes the underlying stock or security will fall by a limited amount between the trade date and the expiration date then a bear put spread could be an ideal play. However, if the underlying stock or security falls by a greater amount then the trader gives up the ability to claim that additional profit. It is the trade-off between risk and potential reward that is appealing to many traders.





Pros

Less risky than simple short-selling
Works well in modestly declining markets
Limits losses to the net amount paid for the options



Cons

Risk of early assignment
Risky if asset climbs dramatically
Limits profits to difference in strike prices






With the example above, the profit from the bear put spread maxes out if the underlying security closes at $30, the lower strike price, at expiration. If it closes below $30 there will not be any additional profit. If it closes between the two strike prices there will be a reduced profit. And if it closes above the higher strike price of $35 there will be a loss of the entire amount spent to buy the spread.



Also, as with any short position, options-holders have no control over when they will be required to fulfill the obligation. There is always the risk of early assignment—that is, having to actually buy or sell the designated number of the asset at the agreed-upon price. Early exercise of options often happens if a merger, takeover, special dividend, or other news occurs that affects the option's underlying stock.


   Real-World Example of Bear Put Spread  

As an example, let's say that Levi Strauss & Co. (LEVI) is trading at $50 on October 20, 2019. Winter is coming, and you don't think the jeans maker's stock is going to thrive. Instead, you think it's going to be mildly depressed. So you buy a $40 put, priced at $4, and a $30 put, priced at $1. Both contracts will expire on November 20, 2019. Buying the $40 put while simultaneously selling the $30 put would cost you $3 ($4 – $1).



If the stock closed above $40 on November 20, your maximum loss would be $3. If it closed under or at $30, however, your maximum gain would be $7—$10 on paper, but you have to deduct the $3 for the other trade and any broker commission fees. The break-even price is $37—a price equal to the higher strike price minus the net debt of the trade.
What Is a Bear Spread?  

A bear spread is an options strategy used when one is mildly bearish and wants to maximize profit while minimizing losses. The goal is to net the investor a profit when the price of the underlying security declines. The strategy involves the simultaneous purchase and sale of either puts or calls for the same underlying contract with the same expiration date but at different strike prices.



A bear spread may be contrasted with a bull spread, which is utilized by investors expecting moderate increases in the underlying security.





Key Takeaways

A bear spread is a bearish options strategy used when an investor expects a moderate decline in the price of the underlying asset.There are two types of bear spreads that a trader can initiate—a bear put spread and a bear call spread.The strategy involves the simultaneous purchase and sale of either puts or calls for the same underlying contract with the same expiration date but at different strike prices.Bear spreads achieve maximum profit if the underlying asset closes at or below the lower strike price.


   Understanding Bear Spreads  

The main impetus for an investor to execute a bear spread is that they expect a decline in the underlying security, but not in an appreciable way, and want to either profit from it or protect their existing position. There are two main types of bear spreads that a trader can initiate: a bear put spread and a bear call spread. Both instances would be classified as vertical spreads.



A bear put spread involves simultaneously buying one put, so as to profit from the expected decline in the underlying security, and selling (writing) another put with the same expiry but at a lower strike price to generate revenue to offset the cost of buying the first put. This strategy results in a net debit to the trader's account.



A bear call spread, on the other hand, involves selling (writing) a call to generate income and buying a call with the same expiry but at a higher strike price to limit the upside risk. This strategy results in a net credit to the trader's account.



Bear spreads can also involve ratios, such as buying one put to sell two or more puts at a lower strike price than the first. Because it is a spread strategy that pays off when the underlying declines, it will lose if the market rises. However, the loss will be capped at the premium paid for the spread.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Bear Put Spread Example  

Say that an investor is bearish on stock XYZ when it is trading at $50 per share and believes the stock price will decrease over the next month. The investor can put on a bear put spread by buying a $48 put and selling (writing) a $44 put for a net debit of $1.



The best-case scenario is if the stock price ends up at or below $44. The worst-case scenario is if the stock price ends up at or above $48, options expire worthless and the trader is down the cost of the spread.



Break even point = 48 strike - spread cost = $48 - $1 = $47Maximum Profit = ($48 - $44) - spread cost = $4 - $1 = $3Maximum Loss = spread cost = $1


   Bear Call Spread Example  

One can also use a bear call spread. An investor is bearish on stock XYZ when it is trading at $50 per share and believes the stock price will decrease over the next month. The investor sells (writes) a $44 call and buys a $48 call for a net credit of $3.



If the stock price ends up at or below $44, then the options expire worthless and the trader keeps the spread credit. Conversely, if the stock price ends up at or above $48, then the trader is down the spread credit minus ($44 - $48) amount.



Break even point = 44 strike + spread credit = $44 + $3 = $47Maximum Profit = Spread credit = $3Maximum Loss = Spread credit - ($48 - $44) = $3 - $4 = $1


   Benefits and Drawbacks of Bear Spreads  

Bear spreads are not suited for every market condition. They work best in markets where the underlying asset is falling moderately and not making large price jumps.  Moreover, while bear spreads limit potential losses, they also cap possible gains.





Pros

Limits losses
Reduces costs of option-writing
Works in moderately rising markets



Cons

Limits gains
Risk of short-call buyer exercising option (bull call spread)
What Was Bear Stearns?  

Bear Stearns was a global investment bank located in New York City that collapsed during the 2008 financial crisis. The bank was heavily exposed to mortgage-backed securities that turned into toxic assets when the underlying loans began to default. Bear Stears was ultimately sold to JPMorgan Chase at a fraction of its pre-crisis value.





Key Takeaways

Bear Stearns was a New York City-based global investment bank and financial company that was founded in 1923. It collapsed during the 2008 financial crisis.Prior to the financial collapse, Bear Stearns was one of the most well-regarded financial institutions.By 2008, the firm's flagship hedge funds were over-exposed to mortgage-backed securities and other toxic assets, which had been purchased with a high degree of leverage.The company was ultimately sold to JPMorgan Chase for $10 a share, well below its value before the crisis.The collapse of Bear Stearns precipitated a wider collapse in the investment banking industry, which also took down major players like Lehman Brothers.


   Understanding Bear Stearns  

The Bear Stearns company was founded in 1923 and survived the Stock Market Crash of 1929, becoming a global investment bank with branches around the world. Competent management and risk-taking saw Bear Stearns continue to grow with the global economy. It was one of the many firms to embrace Lewis Ranieri's securitization of debt to create new financial products.



By the early 2000s, Bear Stearns was among the world's largest investment banks and a highly respected member of Wall Street's pantheon of investment banks. Despite surviving and then thriving after the Great Depression, Bear Stearns was a player in the mortgage meltdown and Great Recession that followed.



Bear Stearns operated a wide range of financial services. Inside this mix were hedge funds that used enhanced leverage to profit from collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and other securitized debt markets. In April 2007, the bottom fell out of the housing market, and the investment bank quickly began to realize that the actual risk of these hedge fund strategies was much larger than originally believed.



The collapse of the housing market caught the whole financial system by surprise, as much of the system was based upon a foundation of a solid housing market underpinning a solid derivatives market. The Bear Stearns funds used techniques to further jack up the leverage to these supposed market fundamentals, only to find out that the downside risk on the instruments they were dealing with wasn't limited in this extreme case of market collapse.


   The Bear Stearns Hedge Fund Collapse  

The hedge funds using these strategies posted massive losses that required them to be bailed out internally, costing the company several billion upfront and then additional billion-dollar losses in writedowns throughout the year. This was bad news for Bear Stearns, but the company had a market cap of $20 billion, so the losses were considered unfortunate but manageable.



This turmoil saw the first quarterly loss in 80 years for Bear Stearns. Quickly, the rating firms piled on and continued to downgrade Bear Stearns' mortgage-backed securities and other holdings. This left the firm with illiquid assets in a down market. The company ran out of funds and, in March 2008, went to the Federal Reserve for a credit guarantee through the Term Securities Lending Facility. Another downgrade hit the firm and a bank run started. By March 13, Bear Stearns was broke. Its stock plummeted.


   JPMorgan Chase Buys Bear Stearns' Assets  

With insufficient liquidity to open its doors, Bear Stearns approached the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for a cash loan of $25 billion. When that was denied, JPMorgan Chase agreed to buy Bear Stearns for $2 a share, with the Federal Reserve guaranteeing $30 billion in mortgage-backed securities. The final price was ultimately raised to $10 a share, still a sharp drop for a company that had traded at $170 a year earlier.



Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase, would later regret the decision, saying it cost the company several billion to close out the failing trades and settle litigation against Bear Stearns. "Under normal conditions, the price we ultimately paid for Bear Stearns would have been considered low," he wrote in his 2008 letter to shareholders. The reason Bear Stearns was sold off so cheaply is that, at the time, no one knew which banks held toxic assets or how big of a hole these seemingly innocuous synthetic products could knock in a balance sheet. "We were not buying a house—we were buying a house on fire."



JPMorgan would go on to acquire another investment bank, Washington Mutual, shortly after. The two acquisitions would ultimately cost a combined $19 billion in fines and settlements.





Important

JPMorgan's acquisition of Bear Stearns was only possible thanks to a $30 billion guarantee from the Federal Reserve. This bailout raised major questions about the role of the government in a free-market economy.


   Lehman Brothers Collapse  

The illiquidity that Bear Stearns faced due to its exposure to securitized debt exposed troubles at other investment banks, as well. Many of the biggest banks were heavily exposed to this sort of investment, including Lehman Brothers, a major lender of subprime mortgages.



By 2007, Lehman Brothers held $111 billion in real-estate assets and securities, more than four times its shareholder equity. It was also heavily leveraged, meaning that a relatively minor downturn could wipe out the value of its portfolio.



For most of 2008, Lehman Brothers attempted to unwind its positions by selling stock and decreasing leverage; however, investor confidence continued to bleed out. After a failed takeover by Barclays and Bank of America, Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy.




What Happened to Bear Stearns’s Investors After the Collapse?
As part of the stock-swap deal with JPMorgan, Bear Stearns investors received about $10 of JPMorgan stock in exchange for every share they owned from Bear Stearns. This was a sharp discount from the final share price of $30. Had those investors kept those shares, they would have recouped their losses 11 years later, according to the Wall Street Journal.




What Role Did Deregulation Play in the Bear Stearns’ Collapse?
Some economists have attributed the subprime mortgage crisis to financial deregulation, particularly the 1999 repeal of parts of the Glass-Steagall Act. This repeal removed the legal barriers between commercial and investment banking, allowing banks like Bear Stearns to issue and underwrite securities. These securities would ultimately become a major catalyst for the financial collapse.




Who Benefited From the Bear Stearns Collapse?
While there are no clear winners from the Bear Stearns collapse, stockholders would have suffered arguably greater losses had the bank gone bankrupt. JPMorgan Chase, which acquired Bear Stearns at fire-sale prices, would also benefit, although it would be some time before JPMorgan would break even.




Who Went to Jail for the 2008 Financial Crisis?
Although the 2008 financial crisis caused a public outcry, there was no reckoning for the bankers who were blamed for the crisis. Two managers at Bear Stearns hedge funds were arrested for misleading investors, but they were found not guilty. The only successful prosecution was of Kareem Serageldin, a Credit Suisse executive who was convicted of mismarking bond prices to hide the bank's losses.


   The Bottom Line  

Formerly one of the largest investment banks on Wall Street, the collapse of Bear Stearns is now regarded as a cautionary tale against corporate greed and the whims of the free market.



In the housing bubble of the early 2000s, Bear Stearns leaned heavily into mortgage-backed securities, vastly underestimating the risks of the subprime housing market. When the housing market collapsed and borrowers began to default, the value of those securities plummeted.



Ultimately, Bear Stearns was acquired by JPMorgan in a fire sale. Since the purchase was supported by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition raised ethical questions about corporate bailouts and the government's role in a market economy.
What Is a Bear Trap?  

A bear trap is a technical pattern that occurs when the price action of a stock, index or another financial instrument incorrectly signals a reversal from an uptrend to a downtrend. In other words, prices may move higher in a broad-based incline, only to encounter significant fundamental resistance or change. This prompts bears to open short positions, hoping to profit from an indication of falling prices.



A bear is an investor or trader in the financial markets who believes that the price of a security is about to decline. Bears may also believe that a financial market's overall direction may decline. A bearish investment strategy attempts to profit from the decline in the price of an asset, and a short position is often executed to implement this strategy.



A short position is a trading technique that borrows shares or contracts of an asset from a broker through a margin account. The investor sells those borrowed instruments to repurchase them when the price drops, hoping to profit from the decline. When a bearish investor incorrectly identifies the timing of the decrease in price, the risk of getting caught in a bear trap increases.





Key Takeaways

A bear trap is a false technical indication of a reversal from an up-trending market to a down-trending one that can lure unsuspecting sellers.Bear Traps can occur in all asset markets, including equities, futures, bonds, and currencies.Bear traps can take the form of a downside market correction amid an overall bullish move higher.It is difficult, if not impossible, to tell if the downward correction will continue or turn into a bear trap. So from a trading perspective, traders need to be cautious about their position size in case the overall uptrend reasserts itself.


   Bear Trap vs. Bull Trap  

There are two types of traps to look out for, bear traps and bull traps. Which one is occurring depends on the overall market conditions and trends.


  Bear Trap  

A bear trap occurs when there is a bearish correction or reversal amid an overall uptrend. A downward correction sees shorting temporarily overcoming buying pressure, leading to a short-term price fall. The decline may be small or large, potentially failing at recent price highs in the uptrend.



The downward correction may last several trading sessions, giving a false impression that the market has indeed reversed. Traders might take short positions to profit on falling stock prices, but when buyers begin seeing prices drop and increase their buying activity, the market won't support prices falling further. It then rapidly resumes its uptrend.



The traders with short positions face losses because they sold a stock at a specific price to repurchase it at a lower price later, but then the price rose and kept climbing. These short traders are then trapped in a losing position—they have to buy back the stock for a higher price, losing more capital the longer they wait to repurchase it.












Trading View


  Bull Trap  

A bull trap is when an overall downward trend and a short-term bullish—or upward—trend in price occurs. Like a bear trap, this short-lived uptrend can trick traders into positions that can cause losses. In a bull trap, traders might take long positions because the market is falsely indicating that a reversal is underway. When the market resumes its downward trend, traders are left holding stocks that are losing value.












Trading View


   Causes of a Bear Trap  

Bear traps generally occur when investors and traders notice that a price trend appears to have reversed over a period. There are many reasons a stock price might drop—government report releases, geopolitical events, company press releases, rumors of a recession, or anything else that might create doubt and fear of loss. As a result, investors begin selling, causing prices to drop.



The false trend can last for several trading periods; if traders suspect a reversal, they take short positions. As more traders start to sell and short, the price continues to drop until it hits a support level that causes it to rebound. The support level is determined by the market. It is generally represented by the price where buyers start flocking to the asset, increasing demand—which tends to raise the stock price rapidly and cause a trap for the bear traders.


   Identifying a Bear Trap  

Short sellers are compelled to cover positions as prices rise to minimize losses. After short-sellers purchase the instruments required to cover their short positions and buyers start buying, the downward momentum of the asset tends to decrease. A subsequent increase in buying activity can initiate further upside, which can continue to fuel price momentum.



The fundamentals are critical in identifying a bear trap, even for technical traders. Because a bear trap is a false indication, the only thing changing is the stock price. For instance, if none of the important fundamentals (e.g., economic and company financial data) have changed against your position, you shouldn't expect more than a limited Bear Trap correction.



If the fundamentals have changed, there's no reason the downward trend you're shorting shouldn't continue. If the overall trend is lower and a Bear Trap correction occurs, you have an opportunity to get short at better levels, looking for the up move to eventually resume—you'll still need to put a stop order above if you're wrong. On the other hand, if the trend is your friend, the appearance of a bear trap may signal an opportunity to get short on a corrective bounce with a view that the major uptrend is set to resume.


   How to Avoid a Bear Trap  

Some ways you can tell if a decline is a bear trap:



Observe trading volume: Look at the instrument's trading volume. If it is low, it may provide clues that it is a temporary price change.
Use your trading tools: Put options and stop orders can help you minimize losses if the short down-trend is temporary.
Technical analysis: Fibonacci retracements, relative strength index, and volume indicators can help you understand and predict whether the current price trend of a security is legitimate and sustainable.
Candlestick indicators: Candlesticks patterns such as Evening Star, Bearish Engulfing, and Three Black Crows can help you identify a bear trap.


   Real-World Example  

You can find examples of bear traps in many stocks during overall market uptrends. For instance, in the bear trap image above, ConocoPhillips' stock price was trending up for several months before it began falling. It dropped rapidly in early October 2022, traded at support for a few days, rebounded to its previous price level, and continued rising.



Traders who took short positions for the 9-day period the stock was declining would have been caught in a bear trap if they hadn't placed stop orders or taken other action to ensure they weren't snared in the trap.




How Do You Trade a Bear Trap?
One method is to use a short and ensure you place a stop order in case you're wrong about the reversal. If the fundamentals still look good, you could consider entering a long position during the downtrend to profit on the upside.




Is a Bear Trap Bullish?
A bear trap is short-term bearish but long-term bullish because it usually occurs in a bullish market trend.




What Is Bull Trap vs. Bear Trap?
A bull trap is the opposite of a bear trap, where traders might assume a downward trend is reversing and begin to take long positions, only to watch the market resume its downward trend.


   The Bottom Line  

When it comes to trading, there is probably nothing more irritating than a bear trap. One day you're with the downtrend, and price action looks promising for further weakness. Then the market changes course higher abruptly based on news or data or simple market dynamics (too many shorts/not enough longs). Now you're forced to sit through what might be a minor bounce or a more significant correction higher.



It's tough to identify a bear trap until after it forms and you see your position moving against you. Hopefully, you have heeded advice to always have a stop loss order before getting into any position. If so, it prevents the panic you may feel when the trend reverses course against you.
What Is a Bearer Bond?  

A bearer bond is a fixed-income security that is owned by the holder, or bearer, rather than by a registered owner. The coupons for interest payments are physically attached to the security. The bondholder is required to submit the coupons to a bank for payment and then redeem the physical certificate when the bond reaches the maturity date.



As with registered bonds, bearer bonds are negotiable instruments with a stated maturity date and a coupon interest rate.



Bearer bonds are virtually extinct in the U.S. and some other countries as the lack of registration made them ideal for use in money laundering, tax evasion, and any number of other under-handed transactions. They also are vulnerable to theft.





Key Takeaways

The bearer bond is a physical certificate with coupons attached that are used to redeem the interest payments.As their ownership is not registered, the owner of a bearer bond is the person in possession of it.Bearer bonds are as vulnerable as cash to theft or loss.



Nevertheless, bearer bonds are still issued in many countries.


   Understanding the Bearer Bond  

In the U.S., bearer bonds were issued by the U.S. government and by corporations from the late 19th century into the second half of the 20th century. They fell out of favor gradually, as they outmoded by modern technology, shunned by investors concerned over their vulnerability to loss or theft, and, finally, outlawed by the government to thwart money laundering.


  The Modern System  

Nearly all securities are now issued in book-entry form, meaning that they are registered in the investor’s name electronically. No physical certificate is issued.



A registrar or transfer agent is responsible for tracking the name of each registered owner of a stock or a bond. This ensures that bond owners receive all interest payments due and that stockholders receive their cash or stock dividends.



Every time a book-entry security is sold, a transfer agent or registrar changes the name of the registered owner. Obviously, this system is highly automated or it would collapse.


  U.S. Policy on Bearer Bonds  

The Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 effectively ended the practice of issuing bearer bonds in the United States.



Bearer bonds are no longer issued by the U.S. Treasury, and those issued in the past have long since passed their maturity dates.


  Legal Issues Regarding Bearer Bonds  

An individual can buy any amount of bearer bonds, submit the coupons for payment, and remain anonymous since the bonds are not registered in the owner's name.



In 2009, the multinational financial services company UBS paid $780 million and agreed to a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department after the firm was accused of helping American citizens evade taxes using bearer bonds.






In the U.S., bearer bonds were virtually eliminated in 1982.



The lack of bond registration offers little protection or recourse to investors if the physical certificate is stolen since the custodians do not have the name of the real owner on file.


  Bearer Bonds May Have Face Value  

Old bearer bonds issued by corporations may or may not have retained their face value, even if the maturity dates have long since expired.



A U.S. law passed in 2010 relieved banks and brokerages from responsibility for redeeming old bearer bonds.



The finder of a corporate bearer bond can check for the name of the company that issued it and contact that company, if it still exists, or the company that bought it out, if it was taken over. The bearer bond may be honored.


  Examples of Bearer Bond Security Issues  

Most owners of bearer bonds keep the physical certificates in a safe deposit box at a bank or in a safe at home. To redeem the bond at maturity, the bond needs to be delivered to a bank in person or by courier.



Getting the interest payments is also problematic since the coupons can get lost in the mail.



Bearer bonds can cause problems for the heirs of their owners. This can be avoided by attaching proper documentation to the owner's will.
What Is a Bearer Share?  

A bearer share is equity security wholly owned by the person or entity that holds the physical stock certificate, thus the name "bearer" share. The issuing firm neither registers the owner of the stock nor tracks transfers of ownership; the company disperses dividends to bearer shares when a physical coupon is presented to the firm. Because the share is not registered to any authority, transferring the ownership of the stock involves only delivering the physical document.





Key Takeaways

Bearer shares are unregistered equity securities owned by the possessor of the physical share documents. The issuing company pays out dividends to owners of the physical coupons.While bearer shares were often used internationally in Europe, South America, and other regions, many large corporations no longer use them and have transitioned to using registered shares.The use of bearer shares has dwindled worldwide because they incur increased costs and are convenient instruments to secure funding for terrorism and other criminal activities.


   How a Bearer Share Works  

Bearer shares lack the regulation and control of common shares because ownership is never recorded. Bearer shares are similar to bearer bonds, which are fixed-income securities belonging to the holders of physical certificates rather than registered owners.



Bearer shares are often international securities, common in Europe and South America — although the use of bearer shares in these nations has dwindled as governments crackdown on anonymity-related illegal activity. While some jurisdictions, such as Panama, allow the use of bearer shares, they impose punitive tax withholdings on dividends issued to owners to discourage their use. The Marshall Islands is the only country in the world where the shares can be used without problems or extra costs.



Many large foreign corporations over the past decade or so have also chosen to transition to full usage of registered shares. Germany-based pharmaceutical giant Bayer AG, for example, started to convert all its bearer shares to registered shares in 2009,﻿﻿ and in 2015, the United Kingdom abolished the issuance of bearer shares under the provisions of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015.﻿﻿



Switzerland, a jurisdiction known for its emphasis on secrecy in banking transactions, has abolished bearer shares. In June 2019, the Federal Council of the Swiss government adopted a new Federal Act declaring the end of bearer shares, with the exception of publicly-listed companies and intermediated securities. All other existing bearer shares must be converted into registered shares.﻿﻿



In the United States, bearer shares are mostly an issue of state governance, and they are not traditionally endorsed in many jurisdictions' corporate laws. Delaware became the first state in the U.S. to ban the sale of bearer shares in 2002.﻿﻿






Bearer shares appeal to some investors because of privacy, but the tradeoff is the increased costs associated with maintaining that privacy, including attorney fees and taxes.


   Benefits of Using Bearer Shares  

The only tangible benefit to be gained from using bearer shares is privacy. The highest degree of anonymity possible is maintained with respect to ownership in a corporation by a holder of bearer shares. Although the banks that handle the purchases know the contact information of the people purchasing the shares, in some jurisdictions, banks are under no legal obligation to disclose the identity of the purchaser. Banks may also receive dividend payments on behalf of the shareholder and provide ownership confirmation at shareholders' general meetings. Moreover, purchases can be made by a representative, such as a law firm, of the actual owner.



Bearer shares have some valid uses, despite their inherent detriments. Asset protection is the most common reason to use bearer shares because of the privacy they provide. For example, individuals who do not want to risk their assets being seized as part of a legal proceeding such as a divorce or a liability suit may resort to the use of bearer shares.


   Disadvantages and Risks of Bearer Shares  

The ownership of bearer shares often coincides with an increased cost incurred from hiring professional representation and advisors to maintain the anonymity that bearer shares provide. Unless the bearer shareholder is a financial and/or legal expert in these matters, avoiding the many legal and tax traps associated with bearer shares can be a difficult challenge.



Also, in a post-9/11 world in which the threat of terrorism looms heavily, part of the strategy to counter the threat is to cut off the sources of terrorist funding. Consequently, in a worldwide effort to deter terrorism funding, money laundering, and other illicit nefarious corporate activity, many jurisdictions have enacted new legislation that places very tight restrictions on the use of bearer shares or, has altogether abolished their use.


   Bearer Shares Example  

For example, the Panama Papers scandal extensively used bearer shares to conceal the true ownership of shares. The Panama Papers scandal was a leak of financial files that exposed a network of more than 200,000 tax havens involving high net worth individuals, public officials, and entities from 200 nations.﻿﻿ It resulted in the reluctance of many banks and financial institutions to open accounts or have any associations with corporations or shareholders that deal with bearer shares. The choice of jurisdictions and financial institutions willing to deal with bearer shares has narrowed significantly.
What is a Bearish Engulfing Pattern?  

A bearish engulfing pattern is a technical chart pattern that signals lower prices to come. The pattern consists of an up (white or green) candlestick followed by a large down (black or red) candlestick that eclipses or "engulfs" the smaller up candle. The pattern can be important because it shows sellers have overtaken the buyers and are pushing the price more aggressively down (down candle) than the buyers were able to push it up (up candle).





Key Takeaways


A bearish engulfing pattern can occur anywhere, but it is more significant if it occurs after a price advance. This could be an uptrend or a pullback to the upside with a larger downtrend.
Ideally, both candles are of substantial size relative to the price bars around them. Two very small bars may create an engulfing pattern, but it is far less significant than if both candles are large.
The real body—the difference between the open and close price—of the candlesticks is what matters. The real body of the down candle must engulf the up candle.
The pattern has far less significance in choppy markets.



   What Does the Bearish Engulfing Pattern Tell You?  

A bearish engulfing pattern is seen at the end of some upward price moves. It is marked by the first candle of upward momentum being overtaken, or engulfed, by a larger second candle indicating a shift toward lower prices. The pattern has greater reliability when the open price of the engulfing candle is well above the close of the first candle, and when the close of the engulfing candle is well below the open of the first candle. A much larger down candle shows more strength than if the down candle is only slightly larger than the up candle.



The pattern is also more reliable when it follows a clean move higher. If the price action is choppy or ranging, many engulfing patterns will occur but they are unlikely to result in major price moves since the overall price trend is choppy or ranging.



Before acting on the pattern, traders typically wait for the second candle to close, and then take action on the following candle. Actions include selling a long position once a bearish engulfing pattern occurs, or potentially entering a short position.



If entering a new short position, a stop loss can be placed above the high of the two-bar pattern.



Astute traders consider the overall picture when utilizing bearish engulfing patterns. For example, taking a short trade may not be wise if the uptrend is very strong. Even the formation of a bearish engulfing pattern may not be enough to halt the advance for long. Yet, if the overall trend is down, and the price has just seen a pullback to the upside, a bearish engulfing pattern may provide a good shorting opportunity since the trade aligns with the longer-term downtrend.


   Example of How to Use a Bearish Engulfing Pattern  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart example shows three bearish engulfing patterns that occurred in the forex market. The first bearish engulfing pattern occurs during a pullback to the upside within a larger downtrend. The price proceeds lower following the pattern.



The next two engulfing patterns are less significant considering the overall picture. The price range of the forex pair is starting to narrow, indicating choppy trading, and there is very little upward price movement prior to the patterns forming. A reversal pattern has little use if there is little to reverse. Within ranges and choppy markets engulfing patterns will occur frequently but are not usually good trading signals.


   The Difference Between a Bearish Engulfing Pattern and a Bullish Engulfing Pattern  

These two patterns are opposites. A bullish engulfing pattern occurs after a price move lower and indicates higher prices to come. The first candle, in the two-candle pattern, is a down candle. The second candle is a larger up candle, with a real body that fully engulfs the smaller down candle.


   Limitations of Using a Bearish Engulfing Pattern  

Engulfing patterns are most useful following a clean upward price move as the pattern clearly shows the shift in momentum to the downside. If the price action is choppy, even if the price is rising overall, the significance of the engulfing pattern is diminished since it is a fairly common signal.



The engulfing or second candle may also be huge. This can leave a trader with a very large stop loss if they opt to trade the pattern. The potential reward from the trade may not justify the risk.



Establishing the potential reward can also be difficult with engulfing patterns, as candlesticks don't provide a price target. Instead, traders will need to use other methods, such as indicators or trend analysis, for selecting a price target or determining when to get out of a profitable trade.
What Is Behavioral Economics?  

Behavioral Economics is the study of psychology as it relates to the economic decision-making processes of individuals and institutions. Behavioral economics is often related with normative economics. It draws on psychology and economics to explore why people sometimes make irrational decisions, and why and how their behavior does not follow the predictions of economic models.





Key Takeaways

Behavioral economics is the study of psychology that analyzes the decisions people make and why irrational choses are chosen. Behavior economics is influenced by bounded rationality, an architecture of choices, cognitive biases, and herd mentality.Behavior economics is crafted around many principles including framing, heuristics, loss aversion, and the sunk-cost fallacy.Companies use information from behavioral economics to price their goods, craft their commercials, and package their products.Starbucks' limited season drinks, Amazon's Lightning Deals, or "buy one, get one" promotions are all tied to behavioral economics.


   Understanding Behavioral Economics  

In an ideal world, people would always make optimal decisions that provide them with the greatest benefit and satisfaction. In economics, rational choice theory states that when humans are presented with various options under the conditions of scarcity, they would choose the option that maximizes their individual satisfaction.



This theory assumes that people, given their preferences and constraints, are capable of making rational decisions by effectively weighing the costs and benefits of each option available to them. The final decision made will be the best choice for the individual. The rational person has self-control and is unmoved by emotions and external factors and, hence, knows what is best for himself. Alas behavioral economics explains that humans are not rational and are incapable of making good decisions.



Because humans are emotional and easily distracted beings, they make decisions that are not in their self-interest. For example, according to the rational choice theory, if Charles wants to lose weight and is equipped with information about the number of calories available in each edible product, he will opt only for the food products with minimal calories.



Behavioral economics states that even if Charles wants to lose weight and sets his mind on eating healthy food going forward, his end behavior will be subject to cognitive bias, emotions, and social influences. If a commercial on TV advertises a brand of ice cream at an attractive price and quotes that all human beings need 2,000 calories a day to function effectively after all, the mouth-watering ice cream image, price, and seemingly valid statistics may lead Charles to fall into the sweet temptation and fall off of the weight loss bandwagon, showing his lack of self-control.






Behavioral economics and behavioral finance are often driven by many of the same factors, though behavior finance is often more related to financial markets.


   History of Behavioral Economics  

Notable individuals in the study of behavioral economics are Nobel laureates Gary Becker (motives, consumer mistakes; 1992), Herbert Simon (bounded rationality; 1978), Daniel Kahneman (illusion of validity, anchoring bias; 2002), George Akerlof (procrastination; 2001), and Richard H. Thaler (nudging, 2017).



In the 18th century, Adam Smith noted that people are often overconfident with their own abilities, noting "the chance of gain is by every man more or less over-valued, and the chance of loss is by most men under-valued, and by scarce any man, who is in tolerable health and spirits, valued more than it is worth.” In this sense, Smith believed individuals are not rational with their own limitations.



More recently, behavioral economics took shape as early as the 1960's when several economists identified key biases when recalling information. This idea called availability heuristic was explained by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, and it leads individuals to irrationally interpret data. For example, shark attacks tend to happen less than people think, but headlines may make people feel otherwise. Tversky and Kahneman are also credited with developing prospect theory, how people are potentially more adverse to losses as opposed to receiving an equal win.



Even more recently, Richard Thaler received the Sveriges Riksbank Price in Economics Science in 2017 for his work in identifying factors that guide individual' economic decision-making. Thaler's work included limited rationality, social preferences, lack of self-control, and individual decision-making.


   Factors That Influence Behavior  

There are often five factors that are cited when analyzing how individual behavior is influenced.


  Bounded Rationality  

Bounded rationality is the concept in which individuals make decisions based on the knowledge they have. Unfortunately, this information is often limited, whether by the individual's lack of expertise of lack of available information. In regards to finance and investing, the same public information is available to everyone, though investors may not know true circumstances of what is happening with a company internally.


  Choice Architecture  

People can be easily manipulated, and this is often on display in the way promoters craft incentives or deals to make consumers buy certain products. Consider how a cracker display may be presented right next to the cheese aisle within a supermarket. This type of design is meant to steer a consumer into making a decision based on a choreographed demonstration often between complementary goods.


  Cognitive Bias  

Whether people realize it or not, everybody makes decisions that are influenced by cognitive bias. Consider the choice of choosing between two companies to invest in. Behavioral economics holds the theory that the color of the logo, the name of the CEO, or the city in which each company is headquartered in may stir up an unknown bias that yields us to choose the other company.


  Discrimination  

In a similar light, behavioral economics is often associated with discrimination. People perceive things, events, or other people through their own lenses, potentially discriminating towards others because they simply favor a different alternative. This does not necessarily mean the alternative is a better option, though.


  Herd Mentality  

Many consumer decisions are influenced by what other people are doing. Whether it is the fear of missing out or whether others want to be part of a larger collective, herd mentality is the believe that individual decisions are swayed based on what other people do, not necessarily on what is the best outcome. After all, it is much easier rooting for your favorite team even if they haven't won a championship in a while as long as other fans share your pain.






The media plays a critical part in behavioral economics. Consider how a single headline can grab your attention and make you want to either pursue or avoid a product.


   Principals of Behavioral Economics  

The field of economics is vast. Although behavioral economics is just a subset of the field, it itself has a number of guiding principles that dictate the themes within behavioral economics. Some of the primary principles and themes are listed below.


  Framing  

Framing is the principle of how something is presented to an individual. This behavioral economics concept presents a cognitive bias in that an outcome may be determined based on the structure of how something has been presented. Consider how someone may feel about the two following statements about Babe Ruth, both of which are describing the same thing:



Babe Ruth failed to get a hit in nearly two-thirds of his at-bats.Babe Ruth, one of the greatest baseball players of all time, hit .342 in his lifetime.


  Heuristics  

Heuristics is a complicated field, but it simply means that humans tend to make decisions using mental shortcuts as opposed to using long, rational, optimal reasoning. Most often, people latch onto something is true that may no longer be the case. In this situation, it's easier for the consumer to continue what they've been doing as opposed to realize a more beneficial situation exists.


  Loss Aversion  

Behavioral economics is rooted in the notion that people do not like losses. In fact, people are loss averse to the point that an economic outcome of one financial value that is negative outweighs the emotional toll of the same financial value but positive. For example, some people feel there is much stronger negative emotions associated with losing a $20 bill compared to finding a $20 bill on the ground.


  Market Inefficiencies  

For lack of a better phrase, the market can take advantage of behavior economics. For this reason, market inefficiencies play a crucial part in behavior economics. Consider how overpriced stocks may still lure in investors due to drops in P/E ratios. Though the trading multiple may still be abnormally high, investors may think something in the market is more reasonable simply because it is lower. For example, a stock worth $20 may be trading at $50. Should the price to $40, investors may feel this is a great opportunity.


  Mental Accounting  

Consumers and investors may change their spending and trading tendencies based on circumstances. Though this is fair, often times it is illogical and shapes many aspects of behavioral economics. For example, after receiving one's annual bonus, an investor may choose to invest in riskier stocks. This mental accounting exercise led an investor to make a decision based on their circumstances, not their long-term strategy.


  Sunk-Cost Fallacy  

The sunk-cost fallacy is the emotional attachment to costs that have been incurred in the past. Consumers and investors tend to have a harder time "letting go" of failed investments or committed capital. Consider a failed stock that was purchased at $100/share that is now worth $15/share. An investor may not feel compelled to buy in at $15/share because they think the company is not worth that. However, they are unwilling to sell their shares bought at $100/share due to an emotional attachment to that committed capital.






When performing a cost/benefit analysis, sunk costs are ignored entirely. That is because the price has already been paid and, if it can not be recovered, it has no financial bearing on the future outcome of a decision.


   Applications of Behavioral Economics  
  Financial Markets  

One field in which behavioral economics can be applied to is behavioral finance, which seeks to explain why investors make rash decisions when trading in the capital markets. Much like how poker professionals not only study the mathematics and odds of poker, they also attempt to capitalize on the irrational nature of other players. The same can be said of financial markets.


  Game Theory  

When a decision made leads to error, heuristics can lead to cognitive bias. Behavioral game theory, an emergent class of game theory, can also be applied to behavioral economics as game theory runs experiments and analyzes people’s decisions to make irrational choices. This concept attempts to override illogical behavior to predict consumption outcomes.


  Pricing Strategies  

Companies are increasingly incorporating behavioral economics to increase sales of their products. In 2007, the price of the 8GB iPhone was introduced for $600 and quickly reduced to $400. By introducing the phone at a higher price and bringing it down to $400, consumers believed they were getting a pretty good deal, even if the true value of the product was only $400.


  Product Packaging and Distribution  

Consider a soap manufacturer who produces the same soap but markets them in two different packages to appeal to multiple target groups. One package advertises the soap for all soap users, the other for consumers with sensitive skin. The latter target would not have purchased the product if the package did not specify that the soap was for sensitive skin. They opt for the soap with the sensitive skin label even though it’s the exact same product in the general package.


   Examples of Behavioral Economics  

Payless shoes may be most known for their "buy one, get one" deals. If a consumer purchases one pair of shoes, the second pair is often discounted. Though a consumer may not need two pairs of shoes, the consumer may be unwilling to part ways with a discount.



One form of loss aversion and scarcity is Amazon's Lightning Deals. A consumer may not be willing to part ways with a product they don't even known. Because these Amazon deals are for a limited time only, a consumer faces the behavioral economics dilemma of buying the product or "losing" it. The seasonality of Starbucks' drinks is another example of a product consumers must buy now or miss out.



Last, turn on your television and almost every commercial contains framing. Note how car advertisements or splash pages like Tesla's website for its Model Y only point out the strengths of the vehicle.




What Do Behavioral Economists Do?
Behavioral economists work to understand what consumers do, why they make the choices they do and assist markets in helping consumers make those decisions. Behavioral economists may work for the government to shape public policy to protect consumers. Other times, they may work for private companies and assist in fostering sales growth.




What Is the Goal of Behavioral Economics?
The goal of behavioral economics is to understand why humans make the decisions they do. There are usually outcomes that are the best for people and many times, people do not choose that outcome. Behavioral economics is an incredibly complex and sometimes inexplainable science of why people do things and why they choose to not be rational.




What Is the Difference Between Behavioral Economics and Psycology?
Both behavioral economics and psychology refer to the dispositions, emotions, and decision-making of individuals. Behavior economics is a much more niche field that studies the financial decision-making of an individual, while psychology may cover any aspect of human rationality.




What Is the Downside to Behavioral Economics?
One downside to behavioral economics is that it can be used to deceive or manipulate people and their decision-making. Though people are often not rational, this irrationality may be predictable. Companies can choose to exploit this by packaging their products in a certain way, pricing their goods at specific levels, or customizing their marketing to attract certain markets.


   The Bottom Line  

Behavioral economics is the field of understanding why people do things financially that may be irrational. Blended between cognitive bias, heuristics, bounded rationalities and herd mentality, people tend to do things that may not always be in their best interest. This information can be used to price goods, package products, craft commercials, and generate promotional deals.
What Is Behavioral Finance?  

Behavioral finance, a subfield of behavioral economics, proposes that psychological influences and biases affect the financial behaviors of investors and financial practitioners. Moreover, influences and biases can be the source for the explanation of all types of market anomalies and specifically market anomalies in the stock market, such as severe rises or falls in stock price. As behavioral finance is such an integral part of investing, the Securities and Exchange Commission has staff specifically focused on behavioral finance.





Key Takeaways

Behavioral finance is an area of study focused on how psychological influences can affect market outcomes.Behavioral finance can be analyzed to understand different outcomes across a variety of sectors and industries.One of the key aspects of behavioral finance studies is the influence of psychological biases.Some common behavioral financial aspects include loss aversion, consensus bias, and familiarity tendencies.The efficient market theory which states all equities are priced fairly based on all available public information is often debunked for not incorporating irrational emotional behavior. 


   Understanding Behavioral Finance  

Behavioral finance can be analyzed from a variety of perspectives. Stock market returns are one area of finance where psychological behaviors are often assumed to influence market outcomes and returns but there are also many different angles for observation. The purpose of the classification of behavioral finance is to help understand why people make certain financial choices and how those choices can affect markets.



Within behavioral finance, it is assumed that financial participants are not perfectly rational and self-controlled but rather psychologically influential with somewhat normal and self-controlling tendencies. Financial decision-making often relies on the investor's mental and physical health. As an investor's overall health improves or worsens, their mental state often changes. This impacts their decision-making and rationality towards all real-world problems, including those specific to finance.



One of the key aspects of behavioral finance studies is the influence of biases. Biases can occur for a variety of reasons. Biases can usually be classified into one of five key concepts. Understanding and classifying different types of behavioral finance biases can be very important when narrowing in on the study or analysis of industry or sector outcomes and results.


   Behavioral Finance Concepts  

Behavioral finance typically encompasses five main concepts:



Mental accounting: Mental accounting refers to the propensity for people to allocate money for specific purposes.
Herd behavior: Herd behavior states that people tend to mimic the financial behaviors of the majority of the herd. Herding is notorious in the stock market as the cause behind dramatic rallies and sell-offs.
Emotional gap: The emotional gap refers to decision-making based on extreme emotions or emotional strains such as anxiety, anger, fear, or excitement. Oftentimes, emotions are a key reason why people do not make rational choices.
Anchoring: Anchoring refers to attaching a spending level to a certain reference. Examples may include spending consistently based on a budget level or rationalizing spending based on different satisfaction utilities. 
Self-attribution: Self-attribution refers to a tendency to make choices based on overconfidence in one's own knowledge or skill. Self-attribution usually stems from an intrinsic knack in a particular area. Within this category, individuals tend to rank their knowledge higher than others, even when it objectively falls short.






Behavioral finance is exploited through credit card rewards, as consumers are more likely to be willing to spend points, rewards, or miles as opposed to paying for transactions with direct cash.


   Some Biases Revealed by Behavioral Finance  

Breaking down biases further, many individual biases and tendencies have been identified for behavioral finance analysis. Some of these include:


  Confirmation Bias  

Confirmation bias is when investors have a bias toward accepting information that confirms their already-held belief in an investment. If information surfaces, investors accept it readily to confirm that they're correct about their investment decision—even if the information is flawed.


  Experiential Bias  

An experiential bias occurs when investors' memory of recent events makes them biased or leads them to believe that the event is far more likely to occur again. For this reason, it is also known as recency bias or availability bias.



For example, the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 led many investors to exit the stock market. Many had a dismal view of the markets and likely expected more economic hardship in the coming years. The experience of having gone through such a negative event increased their bias or likelihood that the event could reoccur. In reality, the economy recovered, and the market bounced back in the years to follow.


  Loss Aversion  

Loss aversion occurs when investors place a greater weighting on the concern for losses than the pleasure from market gains. In other words, they're far more likely to try to assign a higher priority to avoiding losses than making investment gains.



As a result, some investors might want a higher payout to compensate for losses. If the high payout isn't likely, they might try to avoid losses altogether even if the investment's risk is acceptable from a rational standpoint.



Applying loss aversion to investing, the so-called disposition effect occurs when investors sell their winners and hang onto their losers. Investors' thinking is that they want to realize gains quickly. However, when an investment is losing money, they'll hold onto it because they want to get back to even or their initial price. Investors tend to admit they are correct about an investment quickly (when there's a gain).



However, investors are reluctant to admit when they made an investment mistake (when there's a loss). The flaw in disposition bias is that the performance of the investment is often tied to the entry price for the investor. In other words, investors gauge the performance of their investment based on their individual entry price disregarding fundamentals or attributes of the investment that may have changed.


  Familiarity Bias  

The familiarity bias is when investors tend to invest in what they know, such as domestic companies or locally owned investments. As a result, investors are not diversified across multiple sectors and types of investments, which can reduce risk. Investors tend to go with investments that they have a history or have familiarity with.






Familiarity bias can occur in so many ways. You may resist investing in a specific company because of what industry it is in, where it operates, what products it sells, who oversees the management of the company, who its clientele base is, how it performs its marketing, and how complex its accounting is.


   Behavioral Finance in the Stock Market  

The efficient market hypothesis (EMH) says that at any given time in a highly liquid market, stock prices are efficiently valued to reflect all the available information. However, many studies have documented long-term historical phenomena in securities markets that contradict the efficient market hypothesis and cannot be captured plausibly in models based on perfect investor rationality.



The EMH is generally based on the belief that market participants view stock prices rationally based on all current and future intrinsic and external factors. When studying the stock market, behavioral finance takes the view that markets are not fully efficient. This allows for the observation of how psychological and social factors can influence the buying and selling of stocks.



The understanding and usage of behavioral finance biases can be applied to stock and other trading market movements on a daily basis. Broadly, behavioral finance theories have also been used to provide clearer explanations of substantial market anomalies like bubbles and deep recessions. While not a part of EMH, investors and portfolio managers have a vested interest in understanding behavioral finance trends. These trends can be used to help analyze market price levels and fluctuations for speculation as well as decision-making purposes. 




What Does Behavioral Finance Tell Us?
Behavioral finance helps us understand how financial decisions around things like investments, payments, risk, and personal debt, are greatly influenced by human emotion, biases, and cognitive limitations of the mind in processing and responding to information.




How Does Behavioral Finance Differ From Mainstream Financial Theory?
Mainstream theory, on the other hand, makes the assumptions in its models that people are rational actors, that they are free from emotion or the effects of culture and social relations, and that people are self-interested utility maximizers. It also assumes, by extension, that markets are efficient and firms are rational profit-maximizing organizations. Behavioral finance counters each of these assumptions.




How Does Knowing About Behavioral Finance Help?
By understanding how and when people deviate from rational expectations, behavioral finance provides a blueprint to help us make better, more rational decisions when it comes to financial matters.




What Is an Example of a Finding in Behavioral Finance?
Investors are found to systematically hold on to losing investments far too long than rational expectations would predict, and they also sell winners too early. This is known as the disposition effect, and is an extension of the concept of loss aversion to the domain of investing. Rather than locking in a paper loss, investors holding lose positions may even double down and take on greater risk in hopes of breaking even.
What Is a Bell Curve?  

A bell curve is a common type of distribution for a variable, also known as the normal distribution. The term "bell curve" originates from the fact that the graph used to depict a normal distribution consists of a symmetrical bell-shaped curve.



The highest point on the curve, or the top of the bell, represents the most probable event in a series of data (its mean, mode, and median in this case), while all other possible occurrences are symmetrically distributed around the mean, creating a downward-sloping curve on each side of the peak. The width of the bell curve is described by its standard deviation.





Key Takeaways

A bell curve is a graph depicting the normal distribution, which has a shape reminiscent of a bell.The top of the curve shows the mean, mode, and median of the data collected. Its standard deviation depicts the bell curve's relative width around the mean.Bell curves (normal distributions) are used commonly in statistics, including in analyzing economic and financial data.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding a Bell Curve  

The term "bell curve" is used to describe a graphical depiction of a normal probability distribution, whose underlying standard deviations from the mean create the curved bell shape. A standard deviation is a measurement used to quantify the variability of data dispersion, in a set of given values around the mean. The mean, in turn, refers to the average of all data points in the data set or sequence and will be found at the highest point on the bell curve.



Financial analysts and investors often use a normal probability distribution when analyzing the returns of a security or of overall market sensitivity. In finance, standard deviations that depict the returns of a security are known as volatility. 



For example, stocks that display a bell curve usually are blue-chip stocks and ones that have lower volatility and more predictable behavioral patterns. Investors use the normal probability distribution of a stock's past returns to make assumptions regarding expected future returns.



In addition to teachers who use a bell curve when comparing test scores, the bell curve is often also used in the world of statistics where it can be widely applied. Bell curves are also sometimes employed in performance management, placing employees who perform their job in an average fashion in the normal distribution of the graph. The high performers and the lowest performers are represented on either side with the dropping slope. It can be useful to larger companies when doing performance reviews or when making managerial decisions. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Example of a Bell Curve  

A bell curve's width is defined by its standard deviation, which is calculated as the level of variation of data in a sample around the mean. Using the empirical rule, for example, if 100 test scores are collected and used in a normal probability distribution, 68% of those test scores should fall within one standard deviation above or below the mean. Moving two standard deviations away from the mean should include 95% of the 100 test scores collected. Moving three standard deviations away from the mean should represent 99.7% of the scores (see the figure above).



Test scores that are extreme outliers, such as a score of 100 or 0, would be considered long-tail data points that consequently lie squarely outside of the three standard deviation range.






   Bell Curve vs. Non-Normal Distributions  

The normal probability distribution assumption doesn’t always hold true in the financial world, however. It is feasible for stocks and other securities to sometimes display non-normal distributions that fail to resemble a bell curve. 



Non-normal distributions have fatter tails than a bell curve (normal probability) distribution. A fatter tail skews negative signals to investors that there is a greater probability of negative returns.


   Limitations of a Bell Curve   

Grading or assessing performance using a bell curve forces groups of people to be categorized as poor, average, or good. For smaller groups, having to categorize a set number of individuals in each category to fit a bell curve will do a disservice to the individuals. As sometimes, they may all be just average or even good workers or students, but given the need to fit their rating or grades to a bell curve, some individuals are forced into the poor group. In reality, data are not perfectly normal. Sometimes there is skewness, or a lack of symmetry, between what falls above and below the mean. Other times there are fat tails (excess kurtosis), making tail events more probable than the normal distribution would predict.




What Are the Characteristics of a Bell Curve?
A bell curve is a symmetric curve centered around the mean, or average, of all the data points being measured. The width of a bell curve is determined by the standard deviation—68% of the data points are within one standard deviation of the mean, 95% of the data are within two standard deviations, and 99.7% of the data points are within three standard deviations of the mean.




How Is the Bell Curve Used in Finance?
Analysts will often use bell curves and other statistical distributions when modeling different potential outcomes that are relevant for investing. Depending on the analysis being performed, these might consist of future stock prices, rates of future earnings growth, potential default rates, or other important phenomena. Before using the bell curve in their analysis, investors should carefully consider whether the outcomes being studied are in fact normally distributed. Failing to do so could seriously undermine the accuracy of the resulting model.




What Are the Limitations of the Bell Curve?
Although the bell curve is a very useful statistical concept, its applications in finance can be limited because financial phenomena—such as expected stock-market returns—do not fall neatly within a normal distribution. Therefore, relying too heavily on a bell curve when making predictions about these events can lead to unreliable results. Although most analysts are well aware of this limitation, it is relatively difficult to overcome this shortcoming because it is often unclear which statistical distribution to use as an alternative.
What Is Below-the-Line Advertising?  

Below-the-line advertising is an advertising strategy where products are promoted in media other than mainstream radio, television, billboards, print, and film formats. The main types of below-the-line advertising systems include direct mail campaigns, social media marketing, trade shows, catalogs, and targeted search engine marketing. Below-the-line advertising methods tend to be less expensive and more focused versus above-the-line strategies.





Key Takeaways

Below-the-line advertising is an advertising strategy where products are promoted in media other than mainstream radio or television.Below-the-line advertising campaigns include direct mail campaigns, trade shows, catalogs, and targeted search engine marketing.Above-the-line methods are ideal for general brand awareness, while below-the-line tactics are preferable for fostering direct relationships with potential customers.


   Understanding Below-the-Line Advertising  

Below-the-line advertising seeks to reach consumers directly, instead of casting a wide net to reach mass audiences. Rather than airing a national commercial during a hit network television show, a below-the-line campaign might instead focus on an in-store demonstration of a product, that consumers may wish to investigate in person. This allows for a more high-touch experience, where a salesperson can answer direct questions and better explain the products. Some examples of below-the-line advertising include:


  Targeted Online Marketing  

Companies can target specific demographics with their advertising campaigns, such as the age of a consumer or the industry of a company. LinkedIn, for example, allows marketers to target specific people with sidebar advertisements based on their profession or groups that they belong to on the website.


  Direct Mailing  

Companies still engage in direct mail advertising, especially the older demographics that are not online as often as, the younger generations. Catalogues and postcard mailings are still popular and effective marketing tools.


  Trade Shows and Presentations  

Businesses often present their products and services through the local Chambers of Commerce. Banks host mortgage seminars to answer questions about mortgages, interest rates, and home affordability with the goal of landing new loan customers.



Of course, there's no perfect marketing tool that works each and every time. Instead, companies often subscribe to multiple strategies. For example, a company might send out a direct mailing of fliers advertising an upcoming event that the company is hosting at the local convention center.


   Above-the-Line vs. Below-the-Line Advertising  

Above-the-line advertising is designed to reach mass audiences. The epitome of above-the-line marketing is a Super Bowl television ad, which costs millions of dollars for mere seconds of airtime, but instantly reaches tens of millions of consumers on a global basis. On the downside, statistically speaking, a significant percentage of those viewers may not typify a company’s target consumer.



Conversely, below-the-line advertising reaches fewer people but is more selective about its audience. In most cases, below-the-line advertisers initially conduct extensive market research, in an effort to identify a target niche of buyers more likely to purchase the products. Once the target demographic is identified, below-the-line advertising reaches consumers in a more personalized, direct manner.



Above-the line casts a wide net versus below-the-line, which uses a proverbial fishing pole through direct mailings, face-to-face contacts at trade shows, or paid search engine results that pop up when consumers enter specific queries.






The return on investment (ROI) from a below-the-line campaign can be higher versus an above-the-line since below-the-line is less costly and more easily monitored.


   Advantages of Below-the-Line Advertising  

Lower costs are arguably the biggest advantage of below-the-line advertising. While TV and radio ads tend to be pricy, direct mailing and search engine marketing are far more economical. And below-the-line methods can be more cheaply and easily scaled up or down.



Furthermore, below-the-line methods make it easier to track conversions with intended consumers. Case in point: though there are multiple strategies for tracking the effectiveness of TV and radio ads, it's hard to gauge overall impact. Asking customers how they heard about a company, for example, can yield unreliable responses because people sometimes recall their experiences inaccurately. On the other hand, email and search engine marketing precisely track the links consumers click, in order to provide businesses with more exacting details.



Below-the-line marketing fosters superior customer engagement, which is critical in today’s modern business landscape. While above-the-line methods are ideal for spreading general brand awareness, below-the-line tactics are preferable for fostering more meaningful relationships with potential customers.
Ben Bernanke was the chair of the board of governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve from 2006 to 2014. Bernanke took over the helm from Alan Greenspan on Feb. 1, 2006, ending Greenspan's 18-year leadership at the Fed.



A former Fed governor, Bernanke was chair of the U.S. President's Council of Economic Advisors prior to being nominated as Greenspan's successor in late 2005.





Key Takeaways

Ben Bernanke is a former Federal Reserve chair, serving from 2006 to 2014.As Fed chair, Bernanke oversaw the central bank's response to the 2008 financial crisis and the Great Recession.Bernanke succeeded Alan Greenspan and was replaced by Janet Yellen.Bernake introduced several strategies, including quantitative easing, to boost the U.S. economy during the 2008 recession.Critics argue that Bernake flooded the economy with too much money, contributing to inflation and increased debt.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

Born Benjamin Shalom Bernanke on Dec. 13, 1953, he is the son of a pharmacist and a schoolteacher and was raised in South Carolina. A high-achieving student, Bernanke completed his undergraduate degree summa cum laude at Harvard University and then completed his Ph.D. at MIT in 1979.



He taught economics at Stanford and then at Princeton University, where he chaired the department until 2002 when he left his academic work for public service. He officially left his post at Princeton in 2005.


   Notable Accomplishments  

Bernanke was first nominated as chair of the Fed by President George W. Bush in 2005. He had been appointed to President Bush's Council of Economic Advisors earlier the same year, which was widely seen as a test run for succeeding Greenspan as chair.



In 2009, President Barack Obama nominated him for a second term as chair. He was succeeded by Janet Yellen as chair in 2014. Before serving his two terms as chair of the Federal Reserve, Bernanke was a member of the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors from 2002 to 2005.


  Economic Contributions  

Ben Bernanke was instrumental in stimulating the U.S. economy after the 2008 banking crisis that sent the economy into a downward spiral. He took an aggressive and experimental approach to restore confidence in the financial system.



One of the multiple strategies that the Fed applied to curb the global crisis was enacting a low-rate policy to stabilize the economy. Under the tutelage of Bernanke, the Fed slashed the benchmark interest rates near to zero. By reducing the federal funds rate, banks lend each other money at a lower cost, and in turn, can offer low-interest rates on loans to consumers and businesses.





$16.2 trillion

The total net worth American households lost between 2007 and 2009 of the Great Recession.



As conditions worsened, Bernanke proposed a quantitative easing program. The quantitative easing scheme involved the unconventional purchase of Treasury bond securities and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to increase the money supply in the economy. By purchasing these securities on a large scale, the Fed increased the demand for them, which led to an increase in the prices. Since bond prices and interest rates are inversely related, interest rates fell in response to the higher prices. The lower interest rates reduced the financing costs for business investments, hence improving a business’ financial position. By bolstering operations and activities, businesses were able to create more jobs, which contributed to a reduction in the unemployment rate.


  Bernake's Bail Outs  

Ben Bernanke also helped to curb the effects of the rapidly deteriorating economic conditions by bailing out several troubled big financial institutions. While the Fed underwrote the decision to let Lehman Brothers fail, they bailed out companies, such as AIG Insurance, due to the higher risk that the bailed-out companies posed if they went bankrupt.



In the case of AIG, Bernanke believed that the company’s huge liability was solely isolated in its financial products which involved hundreds of billions of dollars in derivatives speculation. If the company lost out on its speculative position on these derivatives, it would not have sufficient funds to pay out or cover its losses. For companies like Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns, the Federal Reserve incentivized Bank of America and JPMorgan to purchase and take over both companies by guaranteeing the bad loans of the troubled banks.


   Published Works  

In 2013, Bernake released The Federal Reserve and the Financial Crisis, a compilation of his lectures about the history of the Federal Reserve and the financial crisis of 2008. It features his insights on the Fed's activities, decisions, and responses to events.



Two years later, he published The Courage to Act: A Memoir of a Crisis and Its Aftermath, chronicling his experiences as the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and exposed how close the global economy came to collapsing in 2008, stating that it would have done so had the Federal Reserve and other agencies not taken extreme measures. President Barack Obama has also stated that Bernanke's actions prevented the financial crisis from becoming as bad as it could have been. However, Bernanke has also been the subject of critics who claim he didn't do enough to foresee the financial crisis.


   Legacy  

Although Bernanke’s actions were indelible to the recovery of the global economy, he faced criticism for the approaches that he took to achieve this recovery. Economists criticized his pumping hundreds of billions of dollars into the economy through the bond-purchase program which potentially increased individual and corporate debt, and led to inflation. In addition to these economists, legislators also criticized his extreme measures and opposed his re-appointment as Federal Reserve Chair in 2010. President Barack Obama, however, reappointed him for a second term.



As of August 2022, Ben Bernanke is currently serving as an economist at the Brookings Institution, a nonprofit public organization based in Washington, DC, where he provides advice on fiscal and monetary policies. He also serves as a senior advisor to Citadel.




What Boards Did Ben Bernake Serve on?
After stepping down as the chair of the board of governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve, Ben Bernake served as a member of the Montgomery Township Board of Education in New Jersey for two years and is now an economist for the Brookings Institution and advisor for financial services firm Citadel.




What Did Ben Bernake Do During the Financial Crisis?
To counter the effects of the financial crisis of 2008, Bernake employed a low-rate policy—whereby rates were reduced to practically nothing—and a quantitative easing plan to increase the money supply. Bernake also bailed out many large, failing financial institutions.




To What Economic School of Thought Does Ben Bernake Belong?
Ben Bernake belongs to the Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz school of thought. Bernake subscribed to the principle that the Federal Reserve Board could reduce inflation and revitalize the economy by increasing the money supply at the same rate as the gross national product (GNP).


   The Bottom Line  

Ben Bernake, the former two-term chair of the Federal Reserve, is largely regarded for implementing strategies that saved the U.S. economy. His methods, albeit somewhat controversial, led to an increase in U.S. jobs, the bailout of well-known, established financial institutions, and a robust economy. His actions were not exempt from scrutiny, however, as there were a host of critics who believed his actions were more detrimental than good. Despite varying opinions, Bernake remains in high demand as an economist and advisor and is esteemed as one of the most influential Fed chairs in history.
What Is a Benchmark?  

A benchmark is a standard against which something is compared. Investors use benchmarks to measure the performance of securities, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, portfolios, or other investment instruments.



Generally, broad market and market-segment stock and bond indexes are used for this purpose—even cryptocurrencies have benchmarks, hallmarking the importance of having something to compare an asset's performance to.



If there is an investment instrument, there is a benchmark to compare it to—learn more about benchmarks and how you can use them to check your portfolio's performance.





Key Takeaways

A benchmark is a standard with which to measure performance.In investing, benchmarks are generally indexes of investment instruments against which portfolio performance is evaluated.Depending on the particular investment strategy or mandate, the benchmark will differ.There are benchmarks for every type of investment and strategy.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Benchmarks  

Market benchmarks are indexes created to include multiple securities, assets, or other instruments to represent the performance of a stock, fund, or any other investment of the same type and composition.



Benchmark indexes have been created across all types of asset classes. For example, the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average are two of the most popular large-capitalization stock benchmarks in the equities market.


  Equity Indexes  

The S&P 500 was created by Standard & Poor's. It lists 500 companies—there are actually 505 stocks on the index—based on specific metrics and valuation techniques that reflect the best-performing stocks on the stock market (according to the professionals at S&P).



The Dow Jones Industrial Average comprises 30 U.S. blue-chip stocks—the stocks of well-recognized, established, and financially sound companies.



The S&P 500, of course, has many more stocks listed on it than the Dow does, but there are many similar stocks:



AppleMicrosoftBoeingAlphabet (Google)CiscoCaterpillarProctor & Gamble



Both of these indexes are used by many to gauge the performance of the stock market as a whole, even though they only represent a fraction of the stocks listed on public exchanges.



Mutual fund investors may use Refinitiv Lipper indexes, which use the 30 largest mutual funds in a specific category, while international investors may use MSCI Indexes. The Wilshire 5000 is also a popular benchmark; it represents all of the publicly traded stocks in the U.S.


  Fixed Income Indexes  

Fixed income indexes measure the performance of fixed income assets like bonds and treasuries, which investors use for generating income or as a way to preserve capital during falling market conditions.



Some examples of top fixed income benchmarks include the Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index (known as the Agg), the Bloomberg Capital U.S. Corporate High Yield Bond Index, and the Bloomberg Capital U.S. Treasury Bond Index.


  Commodity Indexes  

Commodity indexes measure the performance of a basket of commodities. For example, the Bloomberg Commodity Index (BCOM) consists of 23 exchange-traded physical commodities futures. The index measures 21 commodities across five different sectors and acts as an indicator of the performance of the commodities market. The five sectors are:



AgricultureEnergyIndustrial MetalsPrecious MetalsLivestock



In addition to traditional benchmarks representing broad market characteristics such as large-cap, mid-cap, small-cap, growth, and value, you'll also find indexes based on fundamental characteristics, sectors, dividends, market trends, investing themes, and much more.






Thematic indexes are lists of stocks that meet specific criteria for a theme, such as environmental, social, and governance (ESG) or sustainability.


   Using a Benchmark  

When evaluating your investment portfolio's performance, it's important to compare it against a benchmark representing the industry, sector, and market segment to which it belongs. However, if your portfolio is diversified, you may not be able to compare the total portfolio against one index—you may need to evaluate it in sections based on how you've allocated your investments.


  Using Information Already Provided  

Most retail investors don't build their portfolios by choosing individual stocks. However, it is possible to do so—but in many cases, it is simply too expensive and time-consuming to evaluate stocks and purchase the ones that meet your investing criteria. So, many choose mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that mirror the performance of specific indexes.



If you have a fund—or more than one—in your portfolio, you can compare the information fund managers already provide to see how your funds are doing compared to the indexes they mirror.



For example, the Vanguard Mega Cap Growth ETF (MGK) is an exchange-traded fund that tracks the performance of the CRSP U.S. Mega Cap Growth Index. If you had purchased shares of MGK and wanted to evaluate its performance, you'd first find the fund's page on Vanguard's website and locate the "Performance and Fees" tab and ensure "Summary" is underlined by clicking on it. You'll see the following information:













You can see the fund's changes in market price from its inception to the last month's performance and compare it to its benchmark. Then, find the historical volatility and see how the fund's return and risk compares to that of its benchmark:













R-squared measures how closely the fund has tracked its benchmark—in MGK's case, it has very closely matched the returns of its benchmark (a value of 1.0 indicate tracking, while less than 1.0 indicates less tracking).



Beta is a measure of the fund's risk compared to that of the benchmark—again, MGK has matched its benchmark's risk level (again, 1.0 indicates it has tracked, while less or more than 1.0 indicates less or more tracking, respectively).



MGK has historically matched the return and risk of the benchmark index it was designed to track, give or take a few percentage points. However, when compared to the Dow Jones U.S. Total Stock Market Index, MGK has returned less and has slightly more risk.




What Is the Best Stock Benchmark?
The best stock benchmark is an index that matches your portfolio or holdings the closest.




Is the S&P 500 a Good Benchmark?
It is very commonly used, but many more can be used based on how the benchmark is designed. Some widely used benchmarks in the stock market are the Wilson 5000, Dow Jones Industrial Average, and the Russel 2000.




How Is a Benchmark Calculated?
Different indexes use different methods to calculate their performance. For example, the S&P 500 uses a free-float market capitalization method.


   The Bottom Line  

Market benchmarks are important because they allow investors to compare their holdings' performance against reliable metrics. Additionally, benchmarks indicate the health of a market—you can also see how a particular class is performing or view the equities market performance as a whole. Market benchmarks constantly evolve, with new ones occasionally appearing based on changing investing strategies and investor sentiments.



The one limitation benchmarks have is that they are indicators of past performance—there is no way of knowing how the investments that comprise an index will perform. You can only view the results of your investment decisions—which is a good thing because you can use the information to make adjustments or readdress your strategy.
What Is a Beneficial Owner?  

A beneficial owner is a person who enjoys the benefits of ownership even though the title to some form of property is in another name.



It also means any individual or group of individuals who, either directly or indirectly, has the power to vote or influence the transaction decisions regarding a specific security, such as shares in a company.





Key Takeaways

A beneficial owner is a person who enjoys the benefits of ownership though the property's title is in another name. Beneficial ownership is distinguished from legal ownership, though in most cases, the legal and beneficial owners are one and the same.Publicly traded securities are often registered in the name of a broker for safety and convenience. Wealthy individuals often list their assets under trust while they remain the beneficial owner.


   Understanding Beneficial Owners  

When shares of a mutual fund are held by a custodian bank or when securities are held by a broker in street name, the true owner is the beneficial owner, even though, for safety and convenience, the bank or broker holds the title.



Beneficial ownership may be shared among a group of individuals. If a beneficial owner controls a position of more than 5% of a company or entity, it must file Schedule 13D under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



Beneficial ownership is distinguished from legal ownership. In most cases, the legal and beneficial owners are one and the same, but there are some cases, legitimate and sometimes less legitimate, where the beneficial owner of a property may wish to remain anonymous.



When a corporation or other legal entity opens a bank account, the bank must identify the beneficial owners of that entity. This is intended to prevent money laundering and tax evasion.






To prevent money laundering, banks are required to verify the beneficial owners of the companies or legal entities that open an account. For these purposes, a beneficial owner is anyone with more than 25% ownership of a legal entity, or anyone who controls the legal entity.


   Areas of Beneficial Ownership  

Each type of asset has different rules for how beneficial ownership is recorded. Although these rules vary by jurisdiction, these are some of the most common standards:


  Securities  

As mentioned in the example above, publicly traded securities are often registered in the name of a broker for safety and convenience.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) recognizes this and has regulated the practice. In private companies, for a number of reasons, a beneficial owner may not want their name as a shareholder of record. So long as tax laws and other laws are complied with, this practice is not illegal in itself.


  Real Estate  

In most countries, real estate registries show the names of the owners of properties. In some cases, a beneficial owner may not want their name to appear on public records. In such cases, it is common for trustees or other entities to act as legal owners in place of the beneficial owner.



For example, famous artists or politicians may not want their home addresses to be easily found in public records, so they do not appear personally on title deeds.


  Asset Protection  

Wealthy individuals who are at risk of lawsuits, or simply want to protect their assets and plan their estate, generally use trusts to act as the legal owner of their property, often securities and money, while they and their families continue to be the beneficial owners. Here again, this practice is legal but highly regulated.






In intellectual property law, a beneficial owner is someone who benefits from a trademark, patent, or copyright even though the legal right belongs to someone else. This may happen when the owner of an intellectual property assigns some of their rights to another party.


   Panama Papers  

Famously, in early 2016, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists made public what it called the "Panama Papers." These documents, taken from the archives of the law firm Mossack Fonseca & Co., show in detail the beneficial ownership of several thousands of offshore corporations.



While many were used legally, it appears some beneficial ownership was hidden for nefarious or illegal motives. The papers revealed the secret business activities and holdings of several public figures, including British prime minister David Cameron and Icelandic prime minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, who resigned as a result. It also shed light on the web of secret holdings by Russian leader Vladimir Putin.


   Newer Rules Regarding Beneficial Owners  

On May 5, 2016, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) fortified and clarified due diligence requirements for banks, brokers, mutual funds and other financial entities. Most importantly, the new rules require legal entity customers to identify and verify the identities of their beneficial owners when they open an account. These rules took effect on May 11, 2018.


   Regulatory Requirements for Beneficial Ownership  

When a broker or other financial institution holds assets on behalf of a corporation or other legal entity, they are required to record the beneficial owner of those assets. This is intended to prevent money laundering or the use of financial infrastructure for terrorism financing.



Under financial regulations, a beneficial owner is considered anyone with a stake of 25% or more in a legal entity or corporation. Beneficial owners can also be considered anyone with a significant role in the management or direction of those entities, or any trusts that own 25% or more of an entity.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Beneficial Ownership  

Beneficial ownership can simplify the process of owning and possessing certain assets, such as securities. A common example is the stock market. It is rare for someone to take actual possession of the stocks that they buy, which would incur additional paperwork. Instead, their stocks remain in the hands of the brokerage, which holds them in beneficial ownership. This is sometimes referred to as owning the shares in "street name."



However, there are some tradeoffs to holding shares in street name. There may be some delay in communications, as all official messaging from the issuing firm must first pass through the brokerage. There may also be delays in issuing dividends and interest payments.



In shadier circumstances, beneficial ownership may also be used to withhold the actual owner of a property or security. An example might be assets that are legally held by a shell company that is controlled by the beneficial owner. Although such companies are not inherently illegal, they are sometimes used to keep the owner's financial assets a secret.




Pros and Cons of Beneficial Ownership

Pros

Allows stockholders to control their shares and receive dividends without actually registering in their name.
Can be a convenient way to manage large numbers of assets.



Cons

For securities, all communication and dividends must pass through the broker.
Shell companies can sometimes be used to conceal the identity of the beneficial owners for unethical purposes.







What Is the Beneficial Ownership Rule?
In banking, the Beneficial Ownership Rule is a regulatory requirement for banks to collect information on the beneficial ownership of an account at the time that the account is opened. This is intended to prevent money laundering and tax evasion by identifying the actual owners of the legal entity that opens an account.




How Do You Determine Beneficial Ownership?
In banking, beneficial ownership is determined based on ownership and control of the legal entity in question. Ownership means any person with more than 25% equity in the legal entity, and control means any individual with significant decision-making responsibility, such as a CEO or CFO.




Who Is Exempt from the Beneficial Ownership Rule?
Certain types of entities do not need to provide identifying information under the beneficial ownership rule. These include sole proprietorships, certain trusts, non-account ownership, and (in the case of credit cards) authorized users who are not the actual owners of the cards.




Who Is the Beneficial Owner of a Charity or Nonprofit?
For charities and nonprofits, the beneficial ownership rule does not apply to those with over 25% of the company, because these entities do not typically have percentage-based controlling interests. However, they must still disclose the information of any executive or officer who has significant control over the company.




Who Is the Beneficial Owner of an Irrevocable Trust?
When it comes to trusts, beneficial ownership information includes information on the settlor, trustees, protector, beneficiaries, and any other person exercising ultimate control over a trust. If a trust owns 25% or more of a corporation or legal entity, the trustee(s) of that trust are considered beneficial owners of the corporation.


   The Bottom Line  

Beneficial ownership allows someone to benefit from assets that are actually held in the name of a company or other legal entity. This is most common for securities, which are typically registered with a broker where the beneficial owners are their customers.



In banking, the beneficial owners of a legal entity are those individuals who have a large equity interest or control over the entity's financials. Banks are required to collect this information in order to prevent money laundering.
What Is a Beneficiary?  

A beneficiary is a person (or entity) who is designated to receive the benefits of property owned by someone else. Beneficiaries often receive these benefits as part of an inheritance.



A beneficiary can be designated in the documents relating to a life insurance policy, a retirement account, a brokerage account, a bank account, and other financial products.



It's important to designate beneficiaries for your financial assets so that they can be distributed according to your wishes when you pass away.





Key Takeaways


A beneficiary is an individual who receives a benefit which is often a monetary distribution.
Distributions can have tax consequences.
Beneficiaries who inherit a retirement account may have various options for the distribution of its funds.
Options for distributions from Inherited IRAs depend on whether the beneficiary is an eligible designated beneficiary or a designated beneficiary.
You can change the beneficiaries on financial accounts at any time, though doing so requires completing and returning the relevant paperwork.



   How Beneficiaries Work  

Any person or organization can be named a beneficiary to receive your property after you pass away. The individual who owns the property or the benefactor can put various stipulations on the disbursement of property. These might include the requirement that a beneficiary attain a certain age or be married before taking control of the inherited property.



Also, there can be tax consequences for the beneficiary when inheriting certain financial assets. For example, if someone is the beneficiary of a life insurance policy, it's useful to know that while the principal of most policies is not taxed, the accrued interest might be.



Failure to name beneficiaries on your financial accounts can result in the financial institution that holds the assets having to make decisions about the distribution of the assets.



Failure to name beneficiaries in a will can tie up one's property in probate potentially for years. It can leave the decision about how to distribute your assets up to the state in which you live.



In either case, the people to whom you wanted to provide financial support after your death may not receive it. Or they may have to wait a long time for it.



Beneficiaries designated on the paperwork for financial accounts override any beneficiary listed in a will.





Warning

When you pass away without a will in place, you’re deemed intestate and your assets are distributed not necessarily to your chosen beneficiaries but according to state inheritance laws.


   Why Beneficiaries Are Important  

It's important to designate beneficiaries for your financial property so that you can feel confident that those people to whom you've decided your money should go can be assured of receiving it.



By naming beneficiaries, you control what happens to your money and clarify the matter for all who may be involved.Having beneficiaries simplifies the settling of your estate and can reduce the potential for stressful situations for those you leave behind.Beneficiaries designated for financial accounts, such as an insurance policy or retirement account, aren't affected by changes to a will. These direct designations take precedence.The names of beneficiaries in financial account documents remain private. A will becomes public record and can expose heirs to public scrutiny.


   Types of Beneficiaries  
  Primary  

The primary beneficiary is the first choice of beneficiary made by a financial account owner. While other beneficiaries also may be listed in account or estate documents, this person or organization will receive all the assets in an account.


  Contingent  

A contingent beneficiary is a secondary beneficiary. They receive the account benefits only if the primary beneficiary is no longer living or cannot be located. You can name more than one contingent beneficiary and how the assets would be divided between them.


   How to Choose a Beneficiary  

Beneficiaries should be designated for all your important assets, including property, insurance policies, retirement accounts, brokerage accounts, bank accounts, and more.



When selecting your beneficiaries:



Assess the relationships you have with family members and who may need your financial help. You may want to consider family pets who may need your protection.



Review those outside of the family whom you'd like to care for or reward for loyal service through the years.



Look at organizations that you've supported over time and whether they can use your financial support.


  Designation Process  

Upon first opening your financial accounts, companies ask that you provide beneficiary information. If you didn't provide it at that time, you can request the paperwork that allows you to designate one or more beneficiary. Fill it out, sign and date it, and return it to the company. This can usually be done online or in person. Maintain a copy for your files.






Minor children can’t directly receive the proceeds of a life insurance policy, but you could name a trust or your children’s legal guardian as a beneficiary.


   Examples of Beneficiaries  
  Individual Retirement Account  

An individual retirement account (IRA) gives the account holder the ability to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries. The options for distribution of the assets are different depending on whether the beneficiary is an eligible designated beneficiary or a designated beneficiary.



Each beneficiary type may take a lump sum distribution of the proceeds if they so desire. If not, the choices are as follows.



Eligible designated beneficiary



An eligible designated beneficiary is a spouse, the minor child of the account owner, someone less than 10 years younger than the account owner (e.g., a family member or friend), or someone who is chronically ill or disabled.



A spouse (but no other eligible designated beneficiary) can transfer the assets of the IRA to their own IRA.Spouses and all other eligible designated beneficiaries can open an Inherited IRA account for the assets they receive. Then, they must take distributions over time, as determined by their life expectancy. The money they withdraw is taxable. Specific distribution rules apply to when they must start to take distributions so be sure to do your research or discuss this with a financial advisor.



Designated beneficiary



A designated beneficiary is someone who is listed in the account records as beneficiary but who doesn't fit into the category of eligible designated beneficiary.



Open an Inherited IRA account for the assets. Access any amount of the money at any time but all of it must be withdrawn within 10 years. If it isn't, a 50% penalty could apply. The money withdrawn is taxable.The stretch option that allowed beneficiaries to take distributions over their lifetimes is not available if the account holder died on or after Jan. 1, 2020.



If the beneficiary is either an estate or a trust (referred to as a non-designated beneficiary), the executor or trustee directs the distribution of assets. They may open an Inherited IRA account, as well, and distribute according to rules for non-designated beneficiary.


  Life Insurance Policy  

Life insurance proceeds are tax free to the beneficiary and are not reported as gross income. However, any interest received or accrued is taxable.



Life insurance beneficiaries can be individuals, such as a spouse or adult child, or entities, such as a trust. For example, if you have minor children, you may choose to establish a trust and name it as the beneficiary of your life insurance policy.



If you were to pass away, then the policy’s death benefit would be paid to the trust. The trustee would then manage those assets according to the terms of the trust on behalf of its beneficiaries (e.g., your children).


  Revocable Beneficiary vs. Irrevocable Beneficiary  

Life insurance beneficiaries can be revocable or irrevocable. Revocable beneficiaries can be changed if necessary at any time during the policy owner’s lifetime. This is similar to a revocable living trust, which can also be changed as long as the trust grantor is still living.



An irrevocable beneficiary is permanent. If there are multiple beneficiaries named to a life insurance policy (e.g., a primary beneficiary and several contingent beneficiaries), then they would all need to consent to any changes involving an irrevocable beneficiary. Therefore, it's important to choose beneficiaries carefully.




What Is a Beneficiary?
A beneficiary is a person or organization that has been named to receive property belonging to another in the event of their death. Often, the benefits received are financial ones related to financial accounts owned by the benefactor.




What Happens If I Don't Choose a Beneficiary?
If you don't choose one or more beneficiaries for your assets, then the decision about what happens to your money will be made by someone other than you, such as a financial institution or a court in the state in which you live.




How Difficult Is It to Designate a Beneficiary?
Not difficult at all, once you've decided on who they should be. Designating beneficiaries for your financial accounts involves providing the names, social security numbers and perhaps other specifics on a form when you open your account. If your accounts have been open, simply request the appropriate form(s) for designating beneficiaries, fill it out carefully and properly, and return it to your financial institution.




Who Can Change the Beneficiary on a Life Insurance Policy?
In the case of a life insurance policy that has one or more revocable beneficiaries, the owner of the policy can change the beneficiary designations at any time. This is something that may be necessary if a beneficiary passes away or if the primary beneficiary is a spouse and the marriage ends in divorce.If irrevocable beneficiaries are named to a life insurance policy, then the policy owner would need the consent of the beneficiary and any contingent beneficiaries to make a change. For that reason, it’s important to think carefully when choosing policy beneficiaries.


   The Bottom Line  

If you care about the dispensation of your financial assets after you're gone, then choosing beneficiaries for your financial accounts should be a priority. By designating beneficiaries, you can ensure that your property winds up in the right hands.
What Is the Benefit-Cost Ratio (BRC)?  

The benefit-cost ratio (BCR) is a ratio used in a cost-benefit analysis to summarize the overall relationship between the relative costs and benefits of a proposed project. BCR can be expressed in monetary or qualitative terms. If a project has a BCR greater than 1.0, the project is expected to deliver a positive net present value to a firm and its investors.





Key Takeaways

The benefit-cost ratio (BCR) is an indicator showing the relationship between the relative costs and benefits of a proposed project, expressed in monetary or qualitative terms.If a project has a BCR greater than 1.0, the project is expected to deliver a positive net present value to a firm and its investors.If a project's BCR is less than 1.0, the project's costs outweigh the benefits, and it should not be considered.


   How the Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) Works  

Benefit-cost ratios (BCRs) are most often used in capital budgeting to analyze the overall value for money of undertaking a new project. However, the cost-benefit analyses for large projects can be hard to get right, because there are so many assumptions and uncertainties that are hard to quantify. This is why there is usually a wide range of potential BCR outcomes.



The BCR also does not provide any sense of how much economic value will be created, and so the BCR is usually used to get a rough idea about the viability of a project and how much the internal rate of return (IRR) exceeds the discount rate, which is the company’s weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) – the opportunity cost of that capital.



The BCR is calculated by dividing the proposed total cash benefit of a project by the proposed total cash cost of the project. Prior to dividing the numbers, the net present value of the respective cash flows over the proposed lifetime of the project – taking into account the terminal values, including salvage/remediation costs – are calculated.


   What Does the BCR Tell You?  

If a project has a BCR that is greater than 1.0, the project is expected to deliver a positive net present value (NPV) and will have an internal rate of return (IRR) above the discount rate used in the DCF calculations. This suggests that the NPV of the project’s cash flows outweighs the NPV of the costs, and the project should be considered.



If the BCR is equal to 1.0, the ratio indicates that the NPV of expected profits equals the costs. If a project's BCR is less than 1.0, the project's costs outweigh the benefits, and it should not be considered.


   Example of How to Use the BCR  

As an example, assume company ABC wishes to assess the profitability of a project that involves renovating an apartment building over the next year. The company decides to lease the equipment needed for the project for $50,000 rather than purchasing it. The inflation rate is 2%, and the renovations are expected to increase the company's annual profit by $100,000 for the next three years.



The NPV of the total cost of the lease does not need to be discounted, because the initial cost of $50,000 is paid up front. The NPV of the projected benefits is $288,388, or ($100,000 / (1 + 0.02)^1) + ($100,000 / (1 + 0.02)^2) + ($100,00 / (1 + 0.02)^3). Consequently, the BCR is 5.77, or $288,388 divided by $50,000.



In this example, our company has a BCR of 5.77, which indicates that the project's estimated benefits significantly outweigh its costs. Moreover, company ABC could expect $5.77 in benefits for each $1 of costs.


   Limitations of the BCR  

The primary limitation of the BCR is that it reduces a project to a simple number when the success or failure of an investment or expansion relies on many factors and can be undermined by unforeseen events. Simply following a rule that above 1.0 means success and below 1.0 spells failure is misleading and can provide a false sense of comfort with a project. The BCR must be used as a tool in conjunction with other types of analysis to make a well-informed decision.




What Is the Benefit-Cost Ratio (BRC) Used for?
The BRC is used in cost-benefit analysis to describe the connection between the costs and benefits of a potential project.




How Do You Calculate the Benefit-Cost-Ratio?
The Benefit-Cost-Ratio is determined by dividing the proposed total cash benefit of a project by the proposed total cash cost of the project.




What Does a Benefit-Cost-Ratio Over 1.0 Suggest?
A reading over 1.0 suggests that on a broad level, a project should be financially successful; a reading of 1.0 suggests that the benefits equal the costs; and a reading below 1.0 suggests that the costs trump the benefits.
Benjamin Graham was an influential investor whose research in securities laid the groundwork for in-depth fundamental valuation used in stock analysis today by all market participants. His famous book, The Intelligent Investor has gained recognition as the foundational work in value investing.





Key Takeaways

Benjamin Graham was an English-born investor and researcher whose work provided the framework for stock analysis.Graham earned approximately $500,000 per year by age 25 but lost nearly all of his earnings and investments from the stock market crash of 1929.The market crash of 1929 inspired Benjamin Graham to co-write a research book titled Security Analysis.In 1949, Graham published The Intelligent Investor: The Definitive Book on Value Investing, which is known as the investor's bible.As an instructor at Columbia University, Graham instructed and mentored now-billionaire investor Warren Buffet.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Early Life and Education  

Benjamin Graham was born in 1894 in London, UK. When he was still little, his family moved to America, where they lost their savings during the Bank Panic of 1907. Graham attended Columbia University on a scholarship and accepted a job offer after graduation on Wall Street with Newburger, Henderson, and Loeb.



By the age of 25, he was already earning about $500,000 annually. The Stock Market Crash of 1929 lost Graham almost all his investments and taught him some valuable lessons about the investing world. His observations after the crash inspired him to write a research book with David Dodd, called Security Analysis. Irving Kahn, one of the greatest American investors, also contributed to the research content of the book.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  Value Investing  

Benjamin Graham is considered a founder of stock analysis and particularly value investing. According to Graham and Dodd, value investing is deriving the intrinsic value of a common stock independent of its market price. By using a company’s factors such as its assets, earnings, and dividend payouts, the intrinsic value of a stock can be found and compared to its market value. If the intrinsic value is more than the current price, the investor should buy and hold until a mean reversion occurs.



A mean reversion is the theory that over time, the market price and intrinsic price will converge towards each other until the stock price reflects its true value. By buying an undervalued stock, the investor is, in effect, paying less for it and should sell when the price is trading at its intrinsic worth. This effect of price convergence is only bound to happen in an efficient market.



Graham was a strong proponent of efficient markets. If markets were not efficient, then the point of value investing will be pointless as the fundamental principle of value investments lies in the ability of the markets to eventually correct to their intrinsic values. Common stocks are not going to remain inflated or bottomed-out forever despite the irrationality of investors in the market.



Benjamin Graham noted that due to the irrationality of investors, including other factors such as the inability to predict the future and the fluctuations of the stock market, buying undervalued or out-of-favor stocks is sure to provide a margin of safety, i.e. room for human error, for the investor.



Also, investors can achieve a margin of safety by purchasing stocks in companies with high dividend yields and low debt-to-equity ratios, and diversifying their portfolios. In the event that a company goes bankrupt, the margin of safety would mitigate the losses that the investor would have. Graham normally bought stocks trading at two-thirds their net-net value as his margin of safety cushion.



The original Benjamin Graham Formula for finding the intrinsic value of a stock was:


















V


 


=


 


E


P


S


 


×


 


(


8.5


 


+


 


2


g


)
















where:
















V


 


=


 intrinsic value
















E


P


S


 


=


 trailing 12-mth 


E


P


S


 of the company
















8.5


 


=


 


P


/


E


 ratio of a zero-growth stock
















g


 


=


 long-term growth rate of the company







\begin{aligned}&V \ =\ EPS \ \times\ (8.5\ +\ 2g)\\&\textbf{where:}\\& V\ =\ \text{intrinsic value}\\&EPS\ =\ \text{trailing 12-mth } EPS\text{ of the company}\\&8.5\ =\ P/E\text{ ratio of a zero-growth stock}\\&g\ =\ \text{long-term growth rate of the company}\end{aligned}


​V = EPS × (8.5 + 2g)where:V = intrinsic valueEPS = trailing 12-mth EPS of the company8.5 = P/E ratio of a zero-growth stockg = long-term growth rate of the company​



In 1974, the formula was revised to include both a risk-free rate of 4.4% which was the average yield of high grade corporate bonds in 1962 and the current yield on AAA corporate bonds represented by the letter Y:








V


=




E


P


S


 


×


 


(


8.5


 


+


 


2


g


)


 


×


 


4.4



Y




V=\frac{EPS\ \times\ (8.5\ +\ 2g)\ \times\ 4.4}{Y}


V=YEPS × (8.5 + 2g) × 4.4​


  Published Works  

Security Analysis was first published in 1934 at the start of the Great Depression, while Graham was a lecturer at Columbia Business School. The book laid out the fundamental groundwork of value investing, which involves buying undervalued stocks with the potential to grow over time. At a time when the stock market was known to be a speculative vehicle, the notion of intrinsic value and margin of safety, which were first introduced in Security Analysis, paved the way for a fundamental analysis of stocks void of speculation..



In 1949, Graham wrote the acclaimed book The Intelligent Investor: The Definitive Book on Value Investing. The Intelligent Investor is widely considered the bible of value investing and features a character known as Mr. Market, Graham’s metaphor for the mechanics of market prices.



Mr. Market is an investor’s imaginary business partner who daily tries to either sell his shares to the investor or buy the shares from the investor. Mr. Market is often irrational and shows up at the investor’s door with different prices on different days depending on how optimistic or pessimistic his mood is. Of course, the investor is not obligated to accept any buy or sell offers.



Graham points out that instead of relying on daily market sentiments which are run by investor’s emotions of greed and fear, the investor should run his own analysis of a stock’s worth based on company’s reports of its operations and financial position. This analysis should strengthen the judgment of the investor when s/he’s made an offer by Mr. Market.



According to Graham, the intelligent investor is one who sells to optimists and buys from pessimists. The investor should look out for opportunities to buy low and sell high due to price-value discrepancies that arise from economic depressions, market crashes, one-time events, temporary negative publicity, and human errors. If no such opportunity is present, the investor should ignore the market noise.



While echoing the fundamentals introduced in Security Analysis, The Intelligent Investor also provides key lessons to readers and investors by advising investors to not follow the herd or crowd, to hold a portfolio of 50% stocks and 50% bonds or cash, to be wary of day trading, to take advantage of market fluctuations, to not buy stocks simply because it is liked, to understand that market volatility is a given and can be used to an investor’s advantage, and to look out for creative accounting techniques that companies use to make their EPS value more attractive.


  Legacy  

One notable disciple of Benjamin Graham is Warren Buffett, who was one of his students at Columbia University. After graduation, Buffett worked for Graham’s company, Graham-Newman Corporation, until Graham retired. Buffett, under the mentorship of Graham and value investing principles, went on to become one of the most successful investors of all time and as of 2022, the seventh wealthiest man in the world valued at almost $103 billion. Other notable investors who studied and worked under the tutelage of Graham include Irving Kahn, Christopher Browne, and Walter Schloss.



Although Benjamin Graham died in 1976, his work lives on and is still widely used in the twenty-first century by value investors and financial analysts running fundamentals on a company’s prospect for value and growth.




What Is the Dodd and Graham Award?
The Graham and Dodd award, in honor of former Columbia University finance professors Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, acknowledges people who excel in research and financial writing in the Financial Analysts Journal.




What Is Benjamin Graham Known for?
Benjamin Graham was a renowned value investor, lecturer, financial securities researcher, and mentor to billionaire investor Warren Buffet. Known as the "father of investing," Graham wrote several books, including The Intelligent Investor, which is widely considered the value investor's bible.




What Are the Three Principles of Investment According to Benjamin Graham?
Benjamin Graham's main investment principles are to:Invest with a margin of safety,Anticipate volatility and benefit from it, andKnow what type of investing you are good at; in other words, know what type of investor you are.


   The Bottom Line  

Benjamin Graham, dubbed the "father of value investing," is known for his investing style, literary contributions on investing, and research. Graham lectured at his alma mater, Columbia University, and eventually became a professor of finance there. His legendary book, The Intelligent Investor, introduced value investing to the financial and investing world. He also defined investment principles adopted by some of the world's most infamous investors.
What Is BHD (Berhad)?  

BHD is a suffix for Berhad, which is used in Malaysia to identify a public limited company. Berhad, BHD, or Bhd after a company’s name indicates that it is a Malaysian public limited company (PLC) while the extended suffix Sendirian Berhad (SDN BHD) denotes that it is a private limited company.





Key Takeaways

Berhad (BHD) is a suffix used in Malaysia to identify a public limited company. The suffix Sendirian Berhad (SDN BHD) identifies a private limited company.SDN BHD companies are typically small or midsized enterprises. BHD companies are the largest companies in Malaysia.BHD companies have stricter financial reporting standards than SDN BHD companies because they must disclose their financial statements to the public.Although most BHD companies list their shares and trade on a stock market, they can choose to stay unlisted.


   Share Issue and BHD  

Both BHD and SDN BHD companies are classified as those that issue shares, which is the most common type of business entity in Malaysia. Such companies have a limited number of shares, and the liability of their shareholders is restricted to the amount specified on their unpaid shares.



Other types of companies in Malaysia are companies limited by guarantees, such as nonprofit organizations, public societies, and unlimited liability corporations (ULC).


   BHD Versus SDN BHD  

A BHD company must have a minimum of two shareholders, and the maximum is unlimited; an SDN BHD company can have two to 50 shareholders. SDN BHD companies are typically small or midsized enterprises (SME) while BHD companies are the largest companies in Malaysia. BHD companies have stricter financial reporting standards than SDN BHD companies because they must disclose their financial statements to the public. BHD firms also have greater access to capital than SDN BHD companies because they can access public equity and debt financing when they require funding. 



Although the process of incorporation for both types of companies is substantially similar, an SDN BHD company has some stringent stipulations in its Articles of Association. These include restrictions on transfers of the company’s shares, a maximum of 50 shareholders, a prohibition on public subscriptions to the company’s shares or debentures, and on collecting public deposits. Although most BHD companies list their shares and trade on a stock market, it is not a mandatory requirement. Therefore, they can choose to stay unlisted.


   Real-World Example  

In 2018, the Forbes Global 2000 list included 13 Malaysian BHD companies. According to the Forbes ranking—which is based on a combination of sales, profits, assets, and market value—the largest companies in Malaysia include:



Maybank Bhd (#394)Tenaga Nasional Bhd (#503)CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (#620)Public Bank Bhd (#646)Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd (#1268)RHB Bank Bhd (#1448)Axiata Group Bhd (#1508)Sime Darby Bhd (#1535)Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd (#1568)Sime Darby Plantation Bhd (#1624)Maxis Bhd (#1779)Genting Bhd (#1811)AmBank Group Bhd (#1911)
What Is Berkshire Hathaway?  

Berkshire Hathaway is a holding company for a multitude of businesses, including GEICO and Fruit of the Loom. It's run by chair and CEO Warren Buffett. Berkshire Hathaway is headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska.



Originally, it was a company comprised of a group of textile milling plants. Buffett assumed control of the struggling New England company in 1965. Since that time, Berkshire has grown to be one of the largest companies in the world, based on market capitalization. Today, it is one of the world's largest companies by market capitalization.





Key Takeaways


Berkshire Hathaway is a massive holding company that's been run by famed value investor Warren Buffett since the 1960s.
Berkshire Hathaway has a market capitalization of over $700 billion.
In May 2023, its class A shares (BRK.A) are among the most expensive in the stock market and trading at almost half a million dollars per share.
It owns a variety of well-known private businesses and has significant minority interests in public companies, such as Apple.
Greg Abel is the heir apparent to Berkshire CEO Warren Buffett who, in his nineties, has yet to announce any plans to step down. 



   Understanding Berkshire Hathaway  

Warren Buffett became the controlling shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway in the mid-1960s and began a progressive strategy of diverting cash flows from the core business into other investments. As of May 2023, Berkshire Hathaway had a market capitalization of over $715 billion, making it one of the largest publicly traded companies worldwide.



Berkshire Hathaway has a long history of operating success and smart investments. The company is the sixth-largest public company in the world in terms of market capitalization as of May 2023. Berkshire's stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange in two classes—A shares and B shares. Class A shares have never split and closed above $500,00 per share in May of 2023 (its Class B shares traded at a more modest $325 on the same date).



Insurance subsidiaries represent a large part of Berkshire Hathaway's holdings. However, the company also manages hundreds of diverse businesses all over the world. These include Duracell, International Dairy Queen, Pampered Chef, Fruit of the Loom, NetJets, and GEICO, among others. In addition to owning private companies, Berkshire also has a large investment portfolio of stocks in major public companies, such as Apple (AAPL), Bank of America (BAC), and United Parcel Service (UPS). As of December 31, 2022, Berkshire's public market equity portfolio was valued at more than $346 billion.



Early in his career, Buffett came across the novel idea to use the float from his insurance subsidiaries to invest elsewhere. He focused on selecting stocks that would be held for the long term. Buffett has long eschewed a diversified stock portfolio in favor of trusted investments that would be over-weighted in order to leverage the anticipated return. Over time, Buffett’s investing prowess became so renowned that Berkshire Hathaway's annual shareholder meetings are now a mecca for value investing proponents. They're also the target of intense media scrutiny.





3,641,613%

The overall return of Berkshire Hathaway’s stock from 1965 to 2021. During this same period, the S&P 500 returned 30,209%. In annualized terms, Berkshire’s stock generated an average yearly return of 20.1% over that period, while the S&P 500’s annualized gain was 10.5%.


   Succession and Control  

Succession has always been a hot topic for Berkshire. The big question is whether Buffett’s replacement can continue the streak of outperforming the market. This becomes even more pressing when you consider that Buffett turned 91 years old in August of 2021.



In 2010, Buffett announced that he would be succeeded at Berkshire Hathaway by a team comprised of one CEO and two to four investment managers.



In 2011, it was announced that hedge fund managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler would be two of those managers. In 2018, the company put Ajit Jain in charge of all of the insurance operations and made Greg Abel the manager of all other (noninsurance) operations. Both men seemed likely candidates for Buffett's heir apparent. Buffet has not announced any retirement plans. Still, it's good that the question of succession has been answered, considering the advanced age of the Oracle of Omaha.



On May 1, 2021, vice chair of Berkshire Hathaway, Charlie Munger, unofficially announced that Warren Buffett would be succeeded as CEO by Greg Abel when Buffett eventually steps down. Abel's official title is CEO of Berkshire Hathaway Energy and vice chair in charge of noninsurance operations.




Who Is Warren Buffett?
Warren Buffett is a world famous business owner and investor. He's renowned not only for the jaw-dropping success of Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company of which he's been in charge since 1964. Buffett is also celebrated for his winning approach to investing, which has created great wealth for many shareholders. His frugal lifestyle, despite being one of the world's wealthiest individuals, and his easy-going manner have earned him fans across the globe.




What Is Value Investing?
Value investing refers to investing in a security with an intrinsic value that's greater than its market value. The idea is that the undervalued security's market value should increase to meet its intrinsic value. Warren Buffett is one example of an investor whose focus on value investing has led to incredible success.




What Is a Class A Share?
Class A shares of common stock usually give shareholders a greater amount of voting rights than Class B and other classes of stock. They're often held by a company's executives and some members of management so that those in charge of the company can retain control of it in various situations, such as a hostile takeover attempt.


   The Bottom Line  

Berkshire Hathaway is a holding company run by Warren Buffett that owns a diverse range of private businesses and significant minority interests in public companies such as Apple. It has a market capitalization of over $715 billion and is the sixth-largest public company in the world. Berkshire Hathaway's success is largely due to Buffett's value investing strategy, and its annual shareholder meetings have become a mecca for value investing proponents. The question of succession has been answered with Greg Abel named the heir apparent to Buffett.
What Is a Bermuda Option?  

A Bermuda option is a type of exotic options contract that can only be exercised on predetermined dates—often on one day each month.



A spin on American-style options, which permit holders to exercise early at any time, Bermudian options allow investors to buy or sell a security or underlying asset at a preset price on a set of specific dates as well as the option's expiration date.





Key Takeaways

A Bermuda option can be exercised early, but only on a set of specific dates before its expiration.These exercise dates are often set in one-month increments.Premiums for Bermuda options are typically lower than those of American options, which can be exercised any time before expiry.


   Understanding Bermuda Options  

Options contracts are financial derivatives that provide the buyer the right—but not the obligation—to transact in an underlying asset, such as shares of stock, at a distinct price—the strike price—on or before a specified future date.



An option to buy an underlying asset is a call option. An option to sell an underlying asset is a put option. At the option's expiration, the contracts can be converted to shares, known as exercising, of the asset at the predetermined price.



There are two main types or styles of options, American and European options. American options are exercisable at any time between the purchase date and the date of expiration. European options, however, are exercised only at the date of expiration. Bermuda options are a restricted form of the American option that allows for early exercise but only at set dates.



The early exercise feature of Bermuda options allows for an investor to use the option and convert it to shares on specific dates before expiry. The dates—contained in the contract's terms—are known upfront during the purchasing of the option.


   Special Considerations  

Some Bermuda options might allow an investor to exercise the option on the first business day of the month. So, if an investor's call option's strike price is lower than the underlying stock's market price on the first of the month, the investor can exercise and buy shares for the lower strike price. Conversely, if the investor's put option strike price is higher than the market price of the stock, the investor can sell at the strike and pick up the shares at the lower market price. Most times, the net difference is cash-settled.



However, some Bermuda options have early expiration date restrictions. For example, a Bermuda option might have the features of a European option where it cannot be exercised until the early exercise date. Following the early exercise date, the option converts to American-style options and can be exercised at any time.



The ability to exercise an option early is a benefit to the holder, and this feature adds value to the contract. The premium (price) on a Bermuda option will often be higher than a European option with the same terms, and lower than an American option due to its limitations on early exercise.


   Bermuda Options: Advantages and Disadvantages  

There are several advantages and disadvantages to Bermuda options. Unlike American and European options, Bermuda options give investors the ability to create and purchase a hybrid contract. In other words, investors are given more control over when the options can be exercised.



Premiums for Bermuda options are typically lower than those of American options. However, Bermuda options don't have the flexibility of exercising at any time. As a result, American options are the most expensive, while European options are the cheapest since they offer the least flexibility. The cost of Bermuda options falls somewhere in between their American and European counterparts.



A possible drawback to a Bermuda option can happen if an investor doesn't exercise until the option's expiration date. In this case, the investor would have been better off buying the cheaper European option instead. Also, the additional exercise dates of a Bermuda option may not necessarily represent the best times to exercise.





Pros

Premiums for Bermuda options are typically lower than those of American options.
Bermuda options allow investors to exercise the option on specific dates before expiry.



Cons

Premiums for Bermuda options are more expensive than European options.
The early exercise feature doesn't guarantee that it will be the most advantageous time to exercise.





   Example of a Bermuda Option  

Let's say an investor owns stock in Tesla Inc. The investor purchased the stock at $250 per share and wants insurance against a drop in the company's stock price.



The investor buys a Bermuda-style put option that expires in six months, with a strike price of $245. The option costs $3—or $300 since each option contract represents 100 shares. The option protects the position from a decline in price below $245 for the next six months. However, the Bermuda feature allows the investor to exercise early on the first of each month beginning in month four.



The stock price falls to $200, and by the first day of the option's fourth month, the investor exercises the put option. The stock position has declined and is sold at $200 while the strike price of $245 provides a profit of $45 from the put option. The investor is effectively out of the position at $245 minus the $300 cost of the premium and any additional broker commissions.



However, if the stock price rose considerably after the option was exercised, say to $300 by the option's expiry, the investor would miss out on any of those gains. Although Bermuda options provide flexibility to exercise early, that doesn't necessarily mean the investor's choice to exercise will be the right or profitable one.
Bernard Lawrence "Bernie" Madoff was an American financier who executed the largest Ponzi scheme in history, defrauding thousands of investors out of tens of billions of dollars over the course of at least 17 years, possibly longer.



He was also a pioneer in electronic trading and chair of the Nasdaq in the early 1990s. He died in prison at age 82 on April 14, 2021, while serving a 150-year sentence for money laundering, securities fraud, and several other felonies.





Key Takeaways

Bernie Madoff was a money manager responsible for one of the largest financial frauds in modern-day history.Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme, which likely ran for decades, defrauded thousands of investors out of tens of billions of dollars.Investors put their trust in Madoff because he created a front of respectability, his returns were high but not outlandish, and he claimed to use a legitimate strategy.In 2009 Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison and forced to forfeit $170 billion as restitution.As of September 2021, the Madoff Victims Fund distributed its seventh distribution of more than $568 million.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Early Life and Education  

Bernie Madoff was born in Brooklyn, New York, on April 29, 1938, to Ralph and Sylvia Madoff. His father worked as a plumber before entering the financial industry with his wife. They founded Gibraltar Securities, which was ultimately forced to close by the SEC.



Bernie earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Hofstra University in 1960 and briefly attended law school at Brooklyn Law School. While in college, Bernie married his high-school sweetheart, Ruth (née Alpern), with whom he later founded Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in 1960.



At first, he traded penny stocks with $5,000 he earned installing sprinklers and working as a lifeguard. He soon persuaded family friends and others to invest with him. When the "Kennedy Slide" flash crash lopped 20% off the market in 1962, Madoff's bets soured and his father-in-law had to bail him out.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Notable Accomplishments  

Madoff had a chip on his shoulder and felt that he was not part of the Wall Street in-crowd. In an interview with journalist Steve Fishman, Madoff advised, "We were a small firm, we weren't a member of the New York Stock Exchange. It was very obvious."



According to Madoff, he began to make a name for himself as a scrappy market maker. "I was perfectly happy to take the crumbs," he told Fishman, giving the example of a client who wanted to sell eight bonds; a bigger firm would disdain that kind of order, but Madoff's would complete it.



Success finally came when he and his brother Peter began to build electronic trading capabilities—"artificial intelligence" in Madoff's words—that attracted massive order flow and boosted the business by providing insights into market activity. "I had all these major banks coming down, entertaining me," Madoff told Fishman. "It was a head trip."



He and four other Wall Street mainstays processed half of the New York Stock Exchange's order flow—controversially, he paid for much of it—and by the late 1980s, Madoff was making in the vicinity of $100 million a year.



Madoff would become chair of the Nasdaq in 1990, and also served in 1991 and 1993.


   Scandal, Scheme, and Crime  

At some point, Madoff attracted investors by claiming to generate large, steady returns through an investing strategy called split-strike conversion, a legitimate trading strategy. However, Madoff deposited client funds into a single bank account that he used to pay existing clients who wanted to cash out.



He funded redemptions by attracting new investors and their capital but was unable to maintain the fraud when the market turned sharply lower in late 2008.



On Dec. 10, 2008, he confessed his wrongdoing to his sons—who worked at his firm. The following day, they turned him over to the authorities. Bernie remained adamant that his sons were not aware of his scheme.



The fund's last statements indicated it had $64.8 billion in client assets.


  The Players  

It is not certain when Madoff's Ponzi scheme began. He testified in court that it started in the early 1990s, but his account manager, Frank DiPascali, who had been working at the firm since 1975, said the fraud had been occurring "for as long as I remember."



Even less clear is why Madoff carried out the scheme at all. "I had more than enough money to support any of my lifestyle and my family's lifestyle. I didn't need to do this for that," he told Fishman, adding, "I don't know why." The legitimate wings of the business were extremely lucrative, and Madoff could have earned the Wall Street elites' respect solely as a market maker and electronic trading pioneer.



Madoff repeatedly suggested to Fishman that he was not entirely to blame for the fraud. "I just allowed myself to be talked into something and that's my fault," he said, without making it clear who talked him into it. "I thought I could extricate myself after a period of time. I thought it would be a very short period of time, but I just couldn't."



The so-called Big Four—Carl Shapiro, Jeffry Picower, Stanley Chais, and Norm Levy—have attracted attention for their long and profitable involvement with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. Madoff's relationships with these men go back to the 1960s and 1970s, and his scheme netted them hundreds of millions of dollars each.



"Everybody was greedy, everybody wanted to go on and I just went along with it," Madoff told Fishman. He indicated that the Big Four and others (several feeder funds pumped client funds to him, some all but outsourcing their management of clients' assets) must have suspected the returns he produced or at least should have. "How can you be making 15 or 18% when everyone is making less money?" Madoff said.


  The Scheme  

Madoff's apparently ultra-high returns persuaded clients to look the other way. In fact, he simply deposited their funds in an account at Chase Manhattan Bank—which merged to become JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2000—and let them sit. The bank, according to one estimate, may have made as much as $435 million in after-tax profit from those deposits.



When clients wished to redeem their investments, Madoff funded the payouts with new capital, which he attracted through a reputation for unbelievable returns and grooming his victims by earning their trust. Madoff also cultivated an image of exclusivity, often initially turning clients away. This model allowed roughly half of Madoff's investors to cash out at a profit. These investors have been required to pay into a victims' fund to compensate defrauded investors who lost money.



Madoff created a front of respectability and generosity, wooing investors through his charitable work. He also defrauded a number of nonprofits, and some had their funds nearly wiped out, including the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Peace and the global women's charity Hadassah. He used his friendship with J. Ezra Merkin, an officer at Manhattan's Fifth Avenue Synagogue, to approach congregants. By various accounts, Madoff swindled $2.4 billion from its members.



Madoff's plausibility to investors was based on several factors:



His principal, public portfolio appeared to stick to safe investments in blue-chip stocks.
He claimed to be using a collar strategy, also known as a split-strike conversion. A collar is a way of minimizing risk, whereby the underlying shares are protected by the purchase of an out-of-the-money put option.
His returns were high (10 to 20% per annum), consistent, and not outlandish. As the Wall Street Journal reported in a now-famous interview with Madoff, from 1992:



"[Madoff] insists the returns were really nothing special, given that the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index generated an average annual return of 16.3% between November 1982 and November 1992. 'I would be surprised if anybody thought that matching the S&P over 10 years was anything outstanding,' he says."


  The Investigation  

The SEC had been investigating Madoff and his securities firm off and on since 1992—a fact that frustrated many after he was finally prosecuted since it was felt that the biggest damage could have been prevented if the initial investigations had been rigorous enough.



Financial analyst Harry Markopolos was one of the earliest whistleblowers. In 1999, he calculated in the space of an afternoon that Madoff had to be lying. He filed his first SEC complaint against Madoff in May 2000, but the regulator ignored him.



In a scathing 2005 letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Markopolos wrote, "Madoff Securities is the world's largest Ponzi Scheme. In this case, there is no SEC reward payment due to the whistle-blower so basically I'm turning this case in because it's the right thing to do."






Many felt that Madoff's worst damage could have been prevented if the SEC had been more rigorous in its initial investigations.



Using what he called "Mosaic Theory," Markopolos noted several irregularities. Madoff's firm claimed to be making money even when the S&P was falling, which made no mathematical sense, based on what Madoff claimed he was investing in. The biggest red flag of all, in Markopolos's words, was that Madoff Securities was earning "undisclosed commissions" instead of the standard hedge fund fee (1% of the total plus 20% of the profits).



The bottom line, concluded by Markopolos, was that "the investors that pony up the money don't know that BM [Bernie Madoff] is managing their money." Markopolos also learned Madoff was applying for huge loans from European banks (seemingly unnecessary if Madoff's returns were as high as he said).



It was not until 2005—shortly after Madoff nearly went belly-up due to a wave of redemptions—that the regulator asked Madoff for documentation on his trading accounts. He made up a six-page list, the SEC drafted letters to two of the firms listed but didn't send them, and that was that. "The lie was simply too large to fit into the agency's limited imagination," writes Diana Henriques, author of the book "The Wizard of Lies: Bernie Madoff and the Death of Trust," which documents the episode.



The SEC was excoriated in 2008 following the revelation of Madoff's fraud and their slow response to act on it.


  The Punishment  

In November 2008, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC reported year-to-date returns of 5.6% during the same period when the S&P 500 dropped 39%. As the selling continued, Madoff became unable to keep up with a cascade of client redemption requests.



So, on Dec. 10, according to the account he gave Fishman, Madoff confessed to his sons Mark and Andy, who worked at their father's firm. "The afternoon I told them all, they immediately left, they went to a lawyer, the lawyer said, 'You gotta turn your father in,' they went, did that, and then I never saw them again." Bernie Madoff was arrested on Dec. 11, 2008.



Madoff insisted he acted alone, though several of his colleagues were sent to prison. His elder son Mark Madoff committed suicide exactly two years after his father's fraud was exposed. Several of Madoff's investors also killed themselves. Andy Madoff died of cancer at age 48 in 2014.



Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison and forced to forfeit $170 billion in 2009. His three homes and four boats were auctioned off by the U.S. Marshals. On Feb. 5, 2020, Madoff's lawyers requested that Madoff be released early from prison claiming that he was suffering from a terminal kidney disease that may kill him within 18 months.



However, Madoff, prisoner No. 61727-054, remained at the Butner Federal Correctional Institution in North Carolina until he died on April 14, 2021.


  The Aftermath  

The paper trail of victims' claims displays the complexity and sheer size of Madoff's betrayal of investors. According to documents, Madoff's scam ran for more than five decades, beginning in the 1960s. His final account statements, which include millions of pages of fake trades and shady accounting, show that the firm had $47 billion in "profit."



While Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 and was sentenced to spend the rest of his life in prison, thousands of investors lost their life savings, and multiple tales detail the harrowing sense of loss victims endured.



Investors victimized by Madoff have been helped by Irving Picard, a New York lawyer overseeing the liquidation of Madoff's firm in bankruptcy court. Picard has sued those who profited from the Ponzi scheme; by April 2021, he had recovered nearly $14 billion.



In addition, a Madoff Victim Fund (MVF) was created in 2013 to help compensate those Madoff defrauded, but the Department of Justice didn't start paying out any of the roughly $4 billion in the fund until late 2017. Richard Breeden, a former SEC chair who is overseeing the fund, noted that thousands of the claims were from "indirect investors"—meaning people who put money into funds that Madoff had invested in during his scheme.



Since they were not direct victims, Breeden and his team had to sift through thousands and thousands of claims, only to reject many of them. Breeden said he based most of his decisions on one simple rule: Did the person in question put more money into Madoff's funds than they took out? Breeden estimated that the number of "feeder" investors was north of 11,000 individuals.



In a September 2021 update for the Madoff Victim Fund, Breeden wrote, "MVF is thrilled to announce a new distribution totaling $568,648,065 to 30,539 victims of the crimes committed at Madoff Securities. Measured by the number of victims paid, this is our largest distribution yet." With the completion of the seventh distribution of funds in September 2021, approximately $3.762 billion has been distributed to 39,494 Madoff victims in the U.S. and around the world. Breeden also noted that they have recovered 81.35% for victims.


   Depictions of Bernie Madoff in Popular Culture  

As a financial antagonist, Bernie Madoff has been depicted as a villain in the media and pop culture. For instance, in a 2009 episode of HBO's Curb Your Enthusiasm, Jason Alexander (who played George on Seinfeld) is swindled by Madoff and loses all of his money made off of a fictional app that he invented. Other fictional characters have also been had by Madoff (or similar knock-offs) such as a couple in Woody Allen's film Blue Jasmine, and the protagonist of Elinor Lipman's novel, The View from Penthouse B.



Madoff himself has also been depicted in several incarnations, from a 2010 theatrical production called Investing with Madoff to and ABC miniseries starting Richard Dreyfuss. In 2017, Madoff was played by Robert DeNiro in the HBO film The Wizard of Lies. Several documentaries, books, and journalistic accounts have also featured Bernie Madoff in describing his fraud and subsequent demise.




Who Was Bernie Madoff?
Bernie Madoff was an American financier and former Nasdaq chair who orchestrated the largest Ponzi scheme in history. Bernie promised investors high returns in exchange for their investments. However, rather than investing, he deposited their money into a bank account and paid, upon request, from existing and new investors' funds. During the 2008 recession, he could no longer accommodate redemption requests. His scheme came to an end after his sons turned him over to authorities. Bernie was convicted of fraud, money laundering, and other related crimes, for which he was sentenced to 150 years in federal prison. Bernie Madoff died in prison on April 14, 2021, at the age of 82.




How Much Money Did Bernie Madoff Return?
In addition to being sentenced to prison, Bernie Madoff was ordered to pay back $170 billion of investors' money. Madoff's assets, including real estate, yachts, and jewelry, were seized and sold by the Feds. Separately, The Bernie Madoff Victims Fund, led by Richard Breeden, has recovered and paid more than $3.7 billion to close to 40,000 victims as of September 2021.




How Did Madoff Get Caught?
Although several people alerted the SEC and other authorities of Bernie Madoff's scheme, it wasn't until he confessed to his sons that he was caught. In 2008, when Bernie could no longer accommodate investors' redemption requests, he admitted his wrongdoings to his sons, Mark and Andrew, who then turned their father over to authorities.


   The Bottom Line  

In 2009, at age 71, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felony counts, including securities fraud, wire fraud, mail fraud, perjury, and money laundering. The Ponzi scheme became a potent symbol of the culture of greed and dishonesty that, to critics, pervaded Wall Street in the run-up to the financial crisis. Madoff, the subject of numerous articles, books, movies, and biopic miniseries, was sentenced to 150 years in prison and ordered to forfeit $170 billion in assets, but no other prominent Wall Street figures faced legal ramifications in the wake of the crisis. In April 2021, Madoff died in a federal correctional facility at age 82.
What Is a Bespoke CDO?  

A bespoke CDO is a structured financial product—specifically, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO)—that a dealer creates for a specific group of investors and tailors to their needs. The investor group typically buys a single tranche of the bespoke CDO, and the remaining tranches are then held by the dealer, who will usually attempt to hedge against potential losses using other financial products like credit derivatives.



A bespoke CDO is now more commonly referred to as a bespoke tranche or a bespoke tranche opportunity (BTO).





Key Takeaways

A bespoke CDO is a collateralized debt obligation that has been customized to the specific needs of a particular group of investorsShunned due to their outsized role in the 2007-09 financial crisis, bespoke CDOs began reappearing in 2016 under the moniker bespoke tranche opportunities (BTOs).Bespoke CDOs today are mainly utilized by hedge funds and other sophisticated institutional investors.


   The Basics of a Bespoke CDO  

Traditionally, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) pools together a collection of cash flow-generating assets—such as mortgages, bonds, and other types of loans—and then repackages this portfolio into discrete sections called tranches. Bespoke CDOs can be structured like these traditional CDOs, pooling classes of debt with income streams, but the term is usually referring to synthetic CDOs that invest in credit default swaps (CDS) and which are more highly customizable and nuanced.



Tranches are portions of a pooled asset divided by specific characteristics. Different tranches of the CDO carry different degrees of risk, depending on the underlying asset's creditworthiness. Therefore, each tranche has a different quarterly rate of return that corresponds with its own risk profile. Obviously, the greater the chance of default of the tranche's holdings, the higher the return it offers. The major rating agencies do not grade bespoke CDOs—the creditworthiness evaluation is done by the issuer and to some extent, market perception. Because these are illiquid and complex financial instruments, bespoke CDOs only trade over the counter (OTC).


   Background of Bespoke CDOs  

Bespoke CDOs—like CDOs in general—have lost popularity due to their prominent role in the financial crisis that followed the housing bubble and mortgage meltdown between 2007 and 2009. The creation of these products by Wall Street was seen as contributing to the massive market crash and eventual government bailout—as well as a lack of common sense. The products were highly structured investments that were hard to understand—both by those buying and those selling them—and difficult to value.



Despite this, CDOs are a useful tool for transferring risk to parties willing to shoulder it, and for freeing up capital for other uses. Wall Street is always looking for ways to transfer risk and unlock capital. So, since around 2016, the bespoke CDO has been making a comeback. In its reincarnation, it's often called a bespoke tranche opportunity (BTO).



Re-branding has not, however, changed the tool itself but there is presumably a bit more scrutiny and due diligence going into the pricing models. It is hoped with these new products the investors don’t find themselves once again holding obligations they don’t properly understand. 






Some $50 billion worth of BTOs were sold in 2017.


   Pros of Bespoke CDOs  

The obvious advantage of a bespoke CDO is that the buyer can customize it. A bespoke CDO is simply a tool that allows investors to target very specific risk to return profiles for their investment strategies or hedging requirements. If an investor wants to make a large, targeted bet against the goat cheese industry, there will be a dealer who can build up a bespoke CDO to do that for the right price. Still, these products are somewhat diversified since the pool loans from say, several goat cheese producers.



The second main benefit is the above-market yields they can provide. When the credit markets are steady and fixed interest rates are low, those seeking investment income must dig deeper.


   Cons of Bespoke CDOs  

The big disadvantage is that there is typically little to no secondary market for bespoke CDOs. This lack of market makes daily pricing difficult. The value must be calculated based on complex theoretical financial models. Those models can make assumptions that turn out to be catastrophically wrong, costing the holder dearly and leaving them with a financial instrument they are unable to sell at any price. The more customized the CDO, the less likely it will appeal to another investor or investors.



Then there is the lack of transparency and liquidity that accompanies over-the-counter transactions in general and these instruments in particular. As unregulated products, bespoke CDOs remain relatively high on the risk scale—more of a suitable instrument for institutional investors, like hedge funds, than for individuals.





Pros

Customized to investor specs
High-yielding
Diversified



Cons

Unregulated
High-risk
Illiquid (small secondary market)
Opaque pricing





   Real-World Example of Bespoke CDOs  

Citigroup is one of the leading dealers in bespoke CDOs, doing US $7 billion worth of business in them in 2016 alone. To increase transparency in what "has historically been an opaque market"—to quote Vikram Prasad Citi's managing director of Correlation and Exotics Trading—the bank offers a standardized portfolio of credit default swaps These are the asset usually used to build the CDOs. It also makes the CDO tranches' pricing structure visible on its client portal, "publishing" the figures tranches fetch.
What Is a Best Alternative to a Negotiated Agreement (BATNA)?  

A best alternative to a negotiated agreement (BATNA) is a course of action that a party engaged in negotiations has determined should be taken if talks fail and no agreement can be reached.



Negotiation researchers Roger Fisher and William Ury coined the term BATNA in their 1981 bestseller, "Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In."



A party's BATNA is the position it will fall back on if negotiation proves unsuccessful.





Key Takeaways

BATNAs exist when negotiations are not agreeable to the parties involved.A BATNA represents the most attractive option available if negotiations fail.BATNAs are used to determine the reservation value–the worst possible offer a negotiator is willing to accept.Negotiators can improve their position by exploring multiple BATNAs.General negotiations are often a better and quicker strategy.


   Understanding a Best Alternative to a Negotiated Agreement (BATNA)  

Considering a BATNA can be useful to anyone in any situation that calls for negotiations, whether it's an employee seeking a raise or a company considering a merger. A party to negotiations cannot make an informed decision about whether to accept an agreement unless they first think through their alternatives. 


   Importance of BATNA  

Identifying your BATNA in advance gives you the option of walking away from a bad deal. For example, if you're negotiating a price for a new car and the dealer's final offer is unacceptable, what can you do? The obvious options are disappointing. You can take a deal you don't want or walk away empty-handed. Or, if you have identified your BAFTA, you can go to another dealer that you know has another make and model car that you like.



Your BAFTA gives you negotiating power, even if you don't reveal it during the negotiations. You know you don't have to take a bad deal.


  ZOPA and BATNA  

In a negotiation, the best alternative to a negotiated agreement, or BATNA, is the individual's determination of the action to be taken if no deal can be reached.



The zone of possible agreement, or ZONA, is the area of overlap among each party's BATNA.



To be really prepared for a negotiation, you don't just have to determine your own BATNA. You need to have a sense of the BATNA that each other party has settled upon. If there is any overlap among them, there is the possibility of an outcome that is satisfactory to all.


  How to Identify Your BATNA  

While a BATNA may not always be easy to identify, Harvard researchers have outlined several steps to help clarify the process:



List all alternatives if your current negotiation ends in an impasse.
Evaluate your alternatives based on the value of pursuing an alternative.
Select the alternative action(s) that would have the highest expected value for you.
After you have determined your BATNA in Step 3, calculate your reservation value or the lowest-valued deal you are willing to accept.



If the value of the deal proposed to you is lower than your reservation value, you should reject the offer and pursue your BATNA. However, if the final offer is higher than your reservation value, you should accept the offer.



A strong BATNA can also help a party understand that it has an appealing alternative to the deal and can walk away from a tempting offer.



Negotiation is more than determining a series of alternatives. Understanding the nuances of negotiation tactics can help improve professional relationships by resolving difficult disputes.



Understanding negotiation can also help you evaluate personal strengths and weaknesses in the face of conflict and learn to manage your bargaining tendencies.



Finally, studying the manipulative negotiation tactics employed by some skilled negotiators can help neutralize their effects.


   BATNA Tips  

In order to reach the best possible outcome, it is important to do as much preparation as possible before entering into negotiations. This means not only should you prepare a strong BATNA in advance, you should consider the BATNAs that may be available to the opposing party.



You must expect the other party to do the same–don't let the other side attempt to downplay your BATNA.



It is also possible to prepare multiple BATNAs, contrary to what the word "best" might imply. In fact, you should have as many as possible. The more BATNAs in your arsenal, the more cards you have to play at the negotiating table.






Despite the name, you can prepare multiple BATNAs, giving you a stronger negotiating position.


   BATNA Traps  

Even when you understand all the available options, it is possible to reach an unsatisfactory result. There are many possible pitfalls in a difficult negotiation, and it is important for negotiators to remain disciplined under pressure from the opposing party.



It is also important to understand the value of all the alternatives available. A negotiator who places too high a value on the other party's hand risks making big concessions for little benefit. A negotiator who undervalues the other party's hand can be too intractable to move.



Many negotiators become emotionally invested in a successful outcome, especially if they have already spent a lot of time at the bargaining table. This is the sunk cost fallacy. A skilled negotiator should always be ready to walk away.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of BATNA  

A strong BATNA can be a valuable card at the negotiating table, allowing parties to ground their positions on a factual basis rather than emotions. Strong BATNAs also ensure a backup plan, so that the organization will not be interrupted if the negotiations fail. It makes failure less likely; the stronger the BATNA, the more likely the opposing party is to seek a mutual agreement.



However, the BATNA process has its costs. Depending on how complicated the business at hand is, finding the best alternative can be a lengthy and expensive process in itself.



It is also not an infallible process, and negotiators run the risk of miscalculating their options or overlooking possibilities.




Pros and Cons of BATNA

Pros

Provides a backup plan if negotiations fail.
Grounds negotiations in a sound factual basis.
Makes agreement more likely, as a strong BATNA is more likely to be acceptable to all parties.



Cons

Calculating BATNAs can be an expensive and complicated process.
Negotiators may still miscalculate the cost or benefits of some alternatives.
There is still a risk of making a disadvantageous choice.





   Example of a BATNA  

For example, Company A makes a takeover offer of $20 million to Company B. But Company B's executives believe it is worth $30 million.



Company B quickly rejects the offer. However, Company B did not take into account the increasing competition in the industry and tighter regulations, which will restrict its growth in the coming year(s) and lower its valuation.



If Company B had taken time to incorporate these factors into the current valuation, and clearly moved through the four BATNA steps, including evaluating the alternative of staying the course in a difficult business environment, management might have been persuaded to accept.



Company B could have included these potential risks in their estimate of the reservation value–the worst possible outcome a negotiator is prepared to accept.




How Do I Find My BATNA?
The first step to determining a BATNA is to list all the possible courses of action that will be available if the negotiations fail.Next, evaluate the value of each alternative, and determine which ones are most attractive.Having calculated your BATNA, you can make a determination about the lowest-value deal you would be willing to accept.




Should I Reveal My BATNA in Negotiations?
A strong BATNA can provide valuable leverage, but a weak BATNA should never be revealed. It only gives the opposing side reason to hold out for more concessions.For example, in employment negotiations, a strong counteroffer from another employer can help you bargain for a higher salary or more vacation time. Revealing a weak counteroffer simply indicates that you have no advantages to going elsewhere.




What Is a Strong BATNA?
A BATNA, or Best Alternative to Negotiated Agreement, is the best option in the view of one party in a negotiation if the talks break down. A strong BATNA gives that party a reasonably attractive alternative to negotiation. If an agreement cannot be reached the BATNA can be implemented with minimal disruption.




What Is the Difference Between BATNA and Reservation Value?
A BATNA is the best option available to one party if negotiations fail, while a reservation value is the worst deal they would be willing to accept.A reservation value is always higher than the BATNA. For example, if you were buying a car, the BATNA might represent the option of shopping at another dealer. The reservation value would be the highest price you are willing to pay.


   The Bottom Line  

Deciding on your BATNA is a key part of the planning process for any negotiation. Any negotiation can fail to reach an agreement. If it does, what's your next step? Knowing your best alternative to a negotiated agreement reveals your option for an acceptable, if not an ideal, resolution.
What Are Best Endeavors?  

Best endeavors is a phrase commonly found in commercial contracts that places an obligation on the identified party to use all efforts necessary to fulfill the terms set out. A best endeavors policy places a party under a stricter obligation compared to a reasonable endeavors obligation. It is equivalent to best efforts, a term widely used in securities markets and preferred in most commercial contracts signed in the United States.





Key Takeaways

Best endeavors is a legal term that represents an obligation on a party in a contract to take all the steps in their power to fulfill the terms of the agreement.Best efforts are generally preferred to best endeavors in the United States, but the terms are equivalent.Best endeavors are limited by the right of a party in a contract to avoid actions that are self-damaging.


   Understanding Best Endeavors  

The legal interpretation of a best endeavors obligation is that it places upon the party the onus of making every reasonable effort to achieve the desired objective. In contrast, the reasonable endeavors obligation may require the party to take no more than a single course of action before considering the task unfulfillable.



The lines between best endeavors obligations and reasonable endeavors obligations can sometimes be blurred, which may result in the parties involved taking the matter to court. In such cases, the court usually assesses a number of factors before arriving at its decision. These factors include the extent of the efforts made, the commercial viability, and the presence of conflicting obligations.


   Best Endeavors vs. All Reasonable Endeavors  

There is some debate on what constitutes best endeavors versus an obligation to apply “all reasonable endeavors.” The enforcement of “all reasonable endeavors” could be interpreted as repeating a course of action multiple times.



For example, the contract might require that a third party be contacted by a particular date to confirm a transaction. If they were not reached by phone but a message was left, this could constitute a “reasonable endeavor” was made to reach them. Multiple phone calls and messages left might qualify as “best endeavors.”



If those phone calls were followed up with letters, emails, texts, and couriers to personally deliver the message directly to the party, this might show that "all reasonable endeavors" were made to fulfill the obligation. As this can be a contentious area of contract law, the success of enforcement in a legal action depends very much on the interpretation and the context surrounding the case.


   Limits to Best Endeavors  

The party held accountable for making “best endeavors” has some rights regarding the actions they take. For example, satisfying best endeavors obligations would not require the party under this obligation to put themselves in a detrimental position. That means they would not be forced to expend resources at a loss to themselves.



For example, an engineering firm might be hired to work on the development of a new office building and the contract could include language that requires “best endeavors” to be made to meet a deadline. When the engineering firm explores all of its options to meet that deadline, it may find that one way to do so would come at the firm’s expense.



This may be because of work hours, fees, and permits that the firm would have to procure and that the firm would not be compensated for by the client. If the firm explores all of its other options that do not come with excess costs, it could be said to have made “best endeavors” to meet its obligations.



Law firm Morrison Foerster says that best endeavors equate to best efforts when “a requirement that a party undertakes its 'best efforts' in performing its obligations is universally understood to be the highest standard, requiring everything to be done by a party, except bankruptcy, in order to accomplish the stated objective.”
What Are Best Practices?  

Best practices are a set of guidelines, ethics, or ideas that represent the most efficient or prudent course of action in a given business situation.



Best practices may be established by authorities, such as regulators, self-regulatory organizations (SROs), or other governing bodies, or they may be internally decreed by a company's management team.





Key Takeaways

Best practices are the working standards or ethical guidelines that provide the best course(s) of action in a given situation.Companies, regulators, or governing bodies can all set best practices for businesses.Best practices serve as a roadmap for a company on how to do business and provide the best way to deal with problems and issues that arise.Steps to setting best practices include researching the industry and competitors, communicating the standards to all employees, setting metrics, managing change, evaluating and refining the best practices.Two common best practices that have been implemented for inventory management include "just in time" and "kaizen."


   How Best Practices Work  

Best practices serve as a general framework for a variety of situations. For instance, in businesses that produce physical products, best practices that highlight efficient ways to complete tasks might be given to employees. Best practices lists may also outline safety procedures in order to minimize employee injuries.



For corporate accountants, the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) represent best practices. GAAP is a common set of accounting standards which aim to improve the clarity, consistency, and comparability of the communication of financial information.



GAAP facilitates the cross-comparison of financial information across different companies within the same sector. This benefits investors and the companies they invest in by promoting transparency.



Investment managers may follow best practices when handling a client's money by prudently investing in a well-diversified portfolio and adhering to a client's risk tolerances, time horizons, and retirement goals.






Corporate governance or a code of ethics can serve as best practices for an organization.


   Special Considerations  

"Best practices" is a term that can be applied broadly and across a swath of industries. In the world of business, the phrase is used in connection with everything from project management to audit functions to explain the most efficient method of completing a business task.



With the advent of newer quality control systems came the need for a way to apply measurable benchmarks and communicate ways to rapidly implement new standards of excellence across an organization. This is done by identifying problems, quantifying their frequencies, cultivating solutions, and monitoring the execution of those solutions to ensure they solve the issues at hand.


  Best Practices as Industry Benchmarks  

Best practices can also be used as a benchmark where one company can share actionable solutions with other organizations. Say there's a firm well-known for its best-in-class product distribution infrastructure. When asked to precisely describe the best practices that led to their hyper-efficiency, the company reveals that it outfits all fulfillment staffers with red markers that they may use to sign off on their highest priority deliveries.



Consequently, all red ink orders are given higher levels of scrutiny than others. As more eyes reflexively search for errors when they see red ink, more mistakes can be flagged and corrected.






Although companies share their best practices as a matter of routine, revealing trade secrets that might be easily replicated by the competition would be unwise.


   Steps for Developing Best Practices  

Here are eight steps for developing best practices:



Do your homework: Research what companies in your industry do regarding best practices, in terms of customer service, hiring, promotions, production, and anything else of import.Share your information: Once you have determined what best practices are important, communicate this to key individuals in your company so that everyone is on the same page.Define your metrics: When you determine your best practices make sure they are measurable so you can keep track of progress towards their implementation, and to boost accountability.Manage change: Employees and others are typically resistant to change. Prepare for this resistance and develop a strategy to move forward when you implement new practices.Modify and customize for your business: When implementing a best practice, modify it so that it meets the characteristics of your business and fits with your intended goals.Involve everyone: Like sharing your information, make certain that everyone in the organization is aware of best practices and that they have agreed to abide by them.Align business and customer needs: Seek guidance from other businesses or customers that might be able to help you refine and better implement your best practices.Evaluate and refine: As your business evolves, take stock of your best practices and refine if necessary to meet the ways that your organization has changed.


   Examples of Best Practices  
  Just in Time  

Just in time (JIT) is a best practices solution focused on inventory that seeks to align materials ordered from suppliers to a production schedule. The goal of JIT is to ensure efficiency and reduce waste by only receiving materials when needed. While this trims inventory costs, it requires businesses to forecast demand for their goods accurately to ensure proper amounts of supplies are on hand.


  Kaizen  

Kaizen is a Japanese management philosophy that seeks to improve productivity gradually and methodically. It is a Japanese word that means "change for the better" or "continuous improvement."



Kaizen seeks to involve all employees and improve operations on a continuous basis. Characteristics of kaizen include designing a workplace to be more efficient and impactful by creating a team atmosphere, improving everyday procedures, making sure employees are engaged, and seeking to make jobs more fulfilling, safer, and less tiring.


   Best Practices for Investors  

With so many stocks to choose from, it can be hard to know which one to pick for your portfolio. In choosing a stock, it's important to know what you want your portfolio to look like and to keep that in mind as time goes by.



As an investor, it's critical to be aware of daily news, not only for the companies you are analyzing or have already invested in but also for world and financial news, as these impact stocks as well. Reading the news is probably the first step in deciding what stock to pick. Understanding which companies are trending, what sectors are primed to do well, and where the economy is heading, will give you an idea of where to start looking.



From there, start compiling a list of stocks that interest you. For example, if you read that new technology has emerged that has made another product obsolete (for example, smartphones making traditional landlines obsolete), you may start looking into such companies.



You can find stocks through research of who the main players are in the sector you are interested in. Conversely, you can look at exchange traded funds (ETFs) that invest in the sector. You can also use screeners to sort through companies based on a variety of factors, such as market cap and earnings. From there, a detailed analysis of a company's financial statements would provide you with information you need regarding the company's health.




What Are Best Practices in Education?
Best practices in education include staying proactive by ensuring your next teaching activity is prepared and set to go before the current one finishes. This allows students to be engaged by reducing disruptions. Encourage communication by involving students in the classroom setting. This can include varying the way in which they provide answers (e.g. verbal, written, visual, in groups, etc.). Work backward by setting an end goal and figuring out how to reach that goal with your students. Always keep your resources, such as lesson plans, so you can build upon what you have done before and refine the way you approach teaching. And lastly, be a role model by setting the examples you want your students to exhibit.




What Are Best Practices in Healthcare?
Best practices in healthcare include training your staff so that they know how to deliver great service and put patient care and experience as their main priority. Ensure patient education, which has been proven to improve the overall healthcare experience. A patient that understands the what and why of their health and the care they are getting are usually happier and more comfortable. Establish a care-orientated environment by incorporating small details, such as remembering a patient's name, smiling, listening carefully, and incorporating follow-up calls.




What Are Best Practices in Customer Service?
Good customer service starts with good employees. Ensure you are hiring the best people and incentivizing them to join your firm and stay. This can be done through good pay and benefits as well as the overall corporate environment.Manage customer expectations. Telling a customer that everything will be taken care of is easy, but this isn't always the case. Being upfront and honest with a customer will always keep them grounded and prevent them from being disappointed.With customer service, first impressions count. Make sure the first impression is perfect. This sets the tone for future engagement and shapes customers' opinions of the service they're receiving. Collect as much data as you can to help them and also personalize the experience.
What Is Beta?  

Beta (β) is a measure of the volatility—or systematic risk—of a security or portfolio compared to the market as a whole (usually the S&P 500). Stocks with betas higher than 1.0 can be interpreted as more volatile than the S&P 500.



Beta is used in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), which describes the relationship between systematic risk and expected return for assets (usually stocks). CAPM is widely used as a method for pricing risky securities and for generating estimates of the expected returns of assets, considering both the risk of those assets and the cost of capital.





Key Takeaways

Beta (β), primarily used in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), is a measure of the volatility–or systematic risk–of a security or portfolio compared to the market as a whole.Beta data about an individual stock can only provide an investor with an approximation of how much risk the stock will add to a (presumably) diversified portfolio.For beta to be meaningful, the stock should be related to the benchmark that is used in the calculation.The S&P 500 has a beta of 1.0.Stocks with betas above 1 will tend to move with more momentum than the S&P 500; stocks with betas less than 1 with less momentum.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   How Beta Works  

A beta coefficient can measure the volatility of an individual stock compared to the systematic risk of the entire market. In statistical terms, beta represents the slope of the line through a regression of data points. In finance, each of these data points represents an individual stock's returns against those of the market as a whole.



Beta effectively describes the activity of a security's returns as it responds to swings in the market. A security's beta is calculated by dividing the product of the covariance of the security's returns and the market's returns by the variance of the market's returns over a specified period.


  The Calculation for Beta Is As Follows:  
















Beta coefficient


(


β


)


=




Covariance


(



R


e



,



R


m



)




Variance


(



R


m



)


















where:

















R


e



=


the return on an individual stock

















R


m



=


the return on the overall market
















Covariance


=


how changes in a stock’s returns are
















related to changes in the market’s returns
















Variance


=


how far the market’s data points spread
















out from their average value







\begin{aligned} &\text{Beta coefficient}(\beta) = \frac{\text{Covariance}(R_e, R_m)}{\text{Variance}(R_m)} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &R_e=\text{the return on an individual stock}\\ &R_m=\text{the return on the overall market}\\ &\text{Covariance}=\text{how changes in a stock's returns are} \\ &\text{related to changes in the market's returns}\\ &\text{Variance}=\text{how far the market's data points spread} \\ &\text{out from their average value} \\ \end{aligned}


​Beta coefficient(β)=Variance(Rm​)Covariance(Re​,Rm​)​where:Re​=the return on an individual stockRm​=the return on the overall marketCovariance=how changes in a stock’s returns arerelated to changes in the market’s returnsVariance=how far the market’s data points spreadout from their average value​
The beta calculation is used to help investors understand whether a stock moves in the same direction as the rest of the market. It also provides insights into how volatile–or how risky–a stock is relative to the rest of the market. For beta to provide any useful insight, the market that is used as a benchmark should be related to the stock. For example, calculating a bond ETF's beta using the S&P 500 as the benchmark would not provide much helpful insight for an investor because bonds and stocks are too dissimilar.


   Understanding Beta  

Ultimately, an investor is using beta to try to gauge how much risk a stock is adding to a portfolio. While a stock that deviates very little from the market doesn’t add a lot of risk to a portfolio, it also doesn’t increase the potential for greater returns.



In order to make sure that a specific stock is being compared to the right benchmark, it should have a high R-squared value in relation to the benchmark. R-squared is a statistical measure that shows the percentage of a security's historical price movements that can be explained by movements in the benchmark index. When using beta to determine the degree of systematic risk, a security with a high R-squared value, in relation to its benchmark, could indicate a more relevant benchmark.



For example, a gold exchange-traded fund (ETF), such as the SPDR Gold Shares (GLD), is tied to the performance of gold bullion. Consequently, a gold ETF would have a low beta and R-squared relationship with the S&P 500.



One way for a stock investor to think about risk is to split it into two categories. The first category is called systematic risk, which is the risk of the entire market declining. The financial crisis in 2008 is an example of a systematic-risk event; no amount of diversification could have prevented investors from losing value in their stock portfolios. Systematic risk is also known as un-diversifiable risk.



Unsystematic risk, also known as diversifiable risk, is the uncertainty associated with an individual stock or industry. For example, the surprise announcement that the company Lumber Liquidators (LL) had been selling hardwood flooring with dangerous levels of formaldehyde in 2015 is an example of unsystematic risk. It was risk that was specific to that company. Unsystematic risk can be partially mitigated through diversification.






A stock's beta will change over time as it relates a stock's performance to the returns of the overall market, which is a dynamic process.


   Types of Beta Values  
  Beta Value Equal to 1.0  

If a stock has a beta of 1.0, it indicates that its price activity is strongly correlated with the market. A stock with a beta of 1.0 has systematic risk. However, the beta calculation can’t detect any unsystematic risk. Adding a stock to a portfolio with a beta of 1.0 doesn’t add any risk to the portfolio, but it also doesn’t increase the likelihood that the portfolio will provide an excess return.


  Beta Value Less Than One  

A beta value that is less than 1.0 means that the security is theoretically less volatile than the market. Including this stock in a portfolio makes it less risky than the same portfolio without the stock. For example, utility stocks often have low betas because they tend to move more slowly than market averages.


  Beta Value Greater Than One  

A beta that is greater than 1.0 indicates that the security's price is theoretically more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it is assumed to be 20% more volatile than the market. Technology stocks and small cap stocks tend to have higher betas than the market benchmark. This indicates that adding the stock to a portfolio will increase the portfolio’s risk, but may also increase its expected return.


  Negative Beta Value  

Some stocks have negative betas. A beta of -1.0 means that the stock is inversely correlated to the market benchmark on a 1:1 basis. This stock could be thought of as an opposite, mirror image of the benchmark’s trends. Put options and inverse ETFs are designed to have negative betas. There are also a few industry groups, like gold miners, where a negative beta is also common.


   Beta in Theory vs. Beta in Practice  

The beta coefficient theory assumes that stock returns are normally distributed from a statistical perspective. However, financial markets are prone to large surprises. In reality, returns aren’t always normally distributed. Therefore, what a stock's beta might predict about a stock’s future movement isn’t always true.



A stock with a very low beta could have smaller price swings, yet it could still be in a long-term downtrend. So, adding a down-trending stock with a low beta decreases risk in a portfolio only if the investor defines risk strictly in terms of volatility (rather than as the potential for losses). From a practical perspective, a low beta stock that's experiencing a downtrend isn’t likely to improve a portfolio’s performance.



Similarly, a high beta stock that is volatile in a mostly upward direction will increase the risk of a portfolio, but it may add gains as well. It's recommended that investors using beta to evaluate a stock also evaluate it from other perspectives—such as fundamental or technical factors—before assuming it will add or remove risk from a portfolio.


   Drawbacks of Beta  

While beta can offer some useful information when evaluating a stock, it does have some limitations. Beta is useful in determining a security's short-term risk, and for analyzing volatility to arrive at equity costs when using the CAPM. However, since beta is calculated using historical data points, it becomes less meaningful for investors looking to predict a stock's future movements. Beta is also less useful for long-term investments since a stock's volatility can change significantly from year to year, depending upon the company's growth stage and other factors. Furthermore, the beta measure on a particular stock tends to jump around over time, which makes it unreliable as a stable measure.




What Is a Good Beta for a Stock?
Beta is used as a proxy for a stock's riskiness or volatility relative to the broader market. A good beta will, therefore, rely on your risk tolerance and goals. If you wish to replicate the broader market in your portfolio, for instance via an index ETF, a beta of 1.0 would be ideal. If you are a conservative investor looking to preserve principal, a lower beta may be more appropriate. In a bull market, betas greater than 1.0 will tend to produce above-average returns - but will also produce larger losses in a down market.




Is Beta a Good Measure of Risk?
Many experts agree that while Beta provides some information about risk, it is not an effective measure of risk on its own. Beta only looks at a stock's past performance relative to the S&P 500 and does not provide any forward guidance. It also does not consider the fundamentals of a company or its earnings and growth potential.




How Do You Interpret a Stock's Beta?
A Beta of 1.0 for a stock means that it has been just as volatile as the broader market (i.e., the S&P 500 index). If the index moves up or down 1%, so too would the stock, on average. Betas larger than 1.0 indicate greater volatility - so if the beta were 1.5 and the index moved up or down 1%, the stock would have moved 1.5%, on average. Betas less than 1.0 indicate less volatility: if the stock had a beta of 0.5, it would have risen or fallen just half-a-percent as the index moved 1%.
Since its inception in 1912, the Better Business Bureau (BBB) has been one of the go-to resources for sizing up a business’s performance and trustworthiness. If you're looking for a new wireless service provider or a local plumber, for instance, you might check out the BBB profiles of businesses you're considering for an added degree of confidence. Or, if there's a charity you'd like to support, you might do the same to make sure it's legitimate.



But how trustworthy is the rating organization itself? While the bureau has helped millions of consumers weed out disreputable service providers, it turns out it’s not foolproof, either. Here's a closer look at how the BBB works—and what its limitations are.





Key Takeaways

• The BBB’s mission is to promote “marketplace trust,” which it does, most notably, by grading companies based on their trustworthiness and performance and by serving as an intermediary when customers have complaints.• The bureau’s letter grade for a particular business derives from more than a dozen factors, including the company’s history of handling consumer complaints.• The BBB has long fostered an image of itself as an independent arbiter of good business practices; critics note that receiving funds from member businesses may create a conflict of interest.


   The 411 on the Better Business Bureau  

The BBB is a nonprofit membership organization with chapters throughout North America that, according to its website, are “focused on advancing marketplace trust.” It promotes that mission primarily through two functions: rating businesses based on their reliability and performance, and facilitating the resolution of consumer complaints. The bureau also provides consumer education and offers several programs aimed at helping businesses adopt best practices.



The BBB collects revenue through corporate memberships, which allows it to provide consumers access to its directory of business profiles at no cost. Through its website, individuals can look up specific businesses or browse providers in a particular industry.



Each profile contains basic information about the company, including its address, phone number, and number of years in operation. It also shows the business’s BBB grade—on a scale of “A” to “F”—as well as customer reviews and information about consumer complaints.﻿﻿


  Accredited vs. nonaccredited businesses  

Companies can choose to become “accredited” businesses, which requires that they “support the mission and vision of BBB.” While the BBB website provides information on both accredited and nonaccredited businesses, the accredited status is displayed prominently on the website and is often used by companies for marketing purposes.



Much of the organization’s revenue comes from those accredited businesses. Businesses pay anywhere from a few hundred dollars for those with a handful of employees to more than $11,000 for those with 2,000 or more workers. The bureau also charges member organizations for the use of the accreditation in online and print advertising.



In addition to those fees, companies have to meet a number of other requirements to remain accredited, such as maintaining a “B” or higher grade, handling consumer complaints in a satisfactory manner, and demonstrating truthful advertising practices.


   How Ratings Work  

For many consumers, the Better Business Bureau’s letter grades are a key factor in choosing whether to engage a particular business or look elsewhere. These ratings are based on a variety of factors, with some components being weighed more than others.



Each business is awarded or deducted points for its performance in 13 distinct areas, with a total possible score of 100. The most heavily weighted factors include the number of unresolved complaints and unanswered complaints for the business, the type of business, failure to honor mediation or arbitration, and the presence of any government actions against the company.



The numerical score is, in turn, converted to a letter grade. A score of 97 to 100, for example, would garner an “A+,” scores of 94 to 96.99 result in an “A,” and scores between 90 and 93.99 translate to an “A-.”



According to the bureau’s website, “BBB ratings are not a guarantee of a business's reliability or performance. BBB recommends that consumers consider a business's BBB rating in addition to all other available information about the business.”



While these ratings are intended to help users make better consumer choices, the BBB does not actually recommend specific businesses. That policy, according to the bureau, is intended to ensure “continued public trust in our fairness."﻿﻿





Fast Fact

For decades, the BBB rated businesses as simply “satisfactory” or “unsatisfactory.” In 2009, it introduced the letter grade system nationwide in order to convey a more detailed analysis of each company or organization.﻿﻿


   Dispute Resolution  

Another important role of the Better Business Bureau is to act as a facilitator for disputes between consumers and a given business. When browsing a company’s BBB profile online, consumers can click the “File a Complaint” link to begin the process. Alternatively, they can write to their local BBB chapter with the relevant details of the case.



Accredited businesses must respond to complaints in a satisfactory manner in order to maintain their designation. For nonaccredited entities, responding to complaints is voluntary. However, doing so helps improve their BBB rating, which can be a powerful incentive in its own right.



Once a consumer files a complaint, the business is expected to respond within 14 days. If the initial request does not prompt a response, the bureau sends a second notice to the company. The BBB informs consumers when the business responds to the complaint, or if it does not receive a response.



Of course, even if the business responds to the complaint, it isn’t always to the customer’s satisfaction. If that’s the case, the consumer has the option to ask for a second response. Depending on the circumstances, the BBB may recommend mediation or arbitration to resolve the dispute.



Upon closing the complaint, the bureau marks it with one of five designations: Resolved, Answered, Unresolved, Unanswered, or Unpursuable (in cases where the BBB cannot locate the business).﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


   Criticisms of the BBB  

Critics have argued that there’s an inherent conflict of interest when a ratings organization such as the Better Business Bureau receives revenue primarily from the businesses that it grades.



In theory, such membership fees should not affect the rating that it gives to a particular company. But whether that’s always the case is open to some dispute. A 2010 exposé by ABC’s 20/20 show, for example, concluded that paying members were more likely to secure “A” ratings, while nonmembers were often left with lower marks.



A CNN investigation in 2015 also found approximately 100 businesses that were given high ratings from the BBB even though they were the subject of significant regulatory actions by the government (for context, the bureau says it publishes profiles on more than 5 million businesses nationwide).



One prominent example was HCR Manorcare, a company that operates hundreds of long-term care facilities across the United States. Despite facing a federal indictment that accused the company of large-scale Medicare fraud, it managed to obtain an “A+” rating from the BBB. The CNN report claimed that consumer lawsuits are not even a factor when grading companies. 



For its part, the watchdog group acknowledges that nonmember businesses are not as closely scrutinized as those that pay for accreditation. According to the bureau’s website: “BBB does not routinely check required competency licensing and government actions for businesses that do not seek BBB accreditation, although in some cases BBB learns of these matters through its marketplace research.”


   The Bottom Line  

These days, consumers have a wide range of options for researching companies, from Yelp to Google Reviews to Angie's List (owned by IAC, Investopedia's corporate parent). While each of these can be useful, none are 100% effective in terms of identifying unscrupulous or poor-performing businesses.



That goes for Better Business Bureau ratings, as well. While the BBB’s free profiles are highly accessible, the bureau has opened itself to criticism that its grading system favors companies that pay membership fees. For consumers, the best solution is often using multiple research tools, particularly when making larger purchases or hiring for a big job.
What Is a Bicameral System?  

A bicameral system describes a government that has a two-house legislative system, such as the House of Representatives and the Senate that make up the U.S. Congress. The word bicameral is derived from the Latin: "bi" (meaning two) and "camera" (meaning chamber). The British Parliament, a bicameral system, has been the model for most parliamentary systems around the world.



A bicameral system can be contrasted with a unicameral system, in which all members of the legislature deliberate and vote as a single group. The legislative branch of the U.S. federal government uses a bicameral system, in addition to all of the U.S. states, with the exception of Nebraska. U.S. cities, by contrast, commonly use the unicameral system.





Key Takeaways

A bicameral system is a government style with two separate divisions within the legislative branch of government.The U.S. bicameral system is divided into the House of Representatives and the Senate.The majority of international governments use the unicameral system—with a roughly 60/40 split between unicameral and bicameral.Each house of the legislative branch has differing powers to ensure there are checks and balances within the system. The more populous House of Representatives branch has less stringent requirements for members when it comes to age and citizenship length compared to the Senate.


   How a Bicameral System Works  

In a bicameral system, the two chambers of the legislative body can have different organizations, rules, methods of selecting members, and designated powers regarding the legislation and oversight of the other branches of the government. In the U.S., the other branches of the government are the executive branch and the judiciary branch.



There are both practical and historical reasons to have two houses of the legislature. A practical reason for a bicameral system is to function as part of the larger system of checks and balances that balance the power of different parts of a government or a society. By dividing power within the legislative branch, bicameralism helps prevent the legislative branch from having too much power—a kind of intrabranch check. Within the legislative body, bicameralism has historically functioned to balance the power of different social classes or groups within a society.



The bicameral system arose in medieval Europe. Sharp class distinctions between the nobility, the clergy, and the commoners meant that these classes were represented by separate groups of representatives, which were charged with advising the king on matters related to and representing the interests of their respective social spheres. In England, these groups eventually developed into the House of Lords and the House of Commons. In the modern U.K., the House of Lords is still considered a more elite body, while the House of Commons represents a larger, more common class.






The U.S. bicameral system arose from a desire to have a balanced system within the legislative branch and to address a disagreement over how states would be allocated representation.


   History of Bicameralism in the U.S.  

The bicameral system in the U.S. consists of the House of Representatives and the Senate—collectively known as the U.S. Congress. Article 1, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitution establishes that the U.S. Congress consists of the Senate and the House of Representatives.



During the Constitutional Convention, America’s founders could not agree on whether the states should each have the same number of representatives or whether the number of representatives should be based on the population size. In an agreement known as the Great Compromise, the founders decided to incorporate both elements: the bicameral system was established.



Like the two houses of the English Parliament, the two chambers within the U.S. legislative were also intended to represent different stakeholders within the U.S. The Senate was designed to represent the interests of the States (Senators were originally appointed by the state legislatures, not elected), and the House of Representatives was intended to be elected by and represent the interests of the common people. This is also reflected in the powers delegated to each house by the Constitution, with the Senate given a more deliberative, advisory, and oversight role, while the House of Representatives was given primary authority over the taxation of their constituents.



Members of the U.S. House of Representatives serve two-year terms. Two-year terms are meant to keep representatives responsive to voters’ needs. There are 435 representatives in total, with the number from each state being in proportion to that state’s population. This system is called proportional representation. Alabama, for example, has seven representatives, while California has 53. The seven least-populous states—Alaska, Delaware, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Vermont, and Wyoming—have only one representative each.





1341

The first instance of British bicameralism occurred in 1341. When the Commons met separately from the nobility and clergy for the first time, an Upper Chamber and a Lower Chamber were effectively created. The U.S. adopted a bicameral system after its founding.


  State Governments  

Each state also has two Senators (a system called equal representation) who are directly elected by voters and serve six-year terms. Before the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution was ratified in 1913, the state legislatures got to choose Senators. These positions tended to be held by the elites.



Each house has different requirements to serve. To be a U.S. representative, you must be at least 25 years old, a U.S. citizen for at least seven years, and a resident of the state you want to represent. To be a U.S. Senator, you must be at least 30 years old, a U.S. citizen for at least nine years, and a resident of the state you want to represent.



Each house also has unique powers. Only members of the House of Representatives can criminally indict (impeach) the President and other federal officials; the Senate then reviews the case. The House also decides presidential elections if no candidate wins a majority of electoral college votes. And any bill that increases taxes originates in the House, which is why the House of Representatives is said to have the "power of the purse." The Senate votes to confirm the appointment of more than 1,000 executive officers, and it can ratify treaties with a two-thirds vote.


   Bicameralism vs. Unicameralism   

Worldwide, about 41% of governments are bicameral and about 59% are unicameral. Other countries that have a bicameral system include Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, India, the U.K., Ireland, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain, and the Czech Republic.



The size, term of office, and method of election (directly elected, indirectly elected, appointed, or other) for each chamber of a bicameral system will vary by country. Unicameral systems became more popular during the 20th century, and some countries, including Greece, New Zealand, and Peru, switched systems from bicameral to unicameral.




What Does Bicameral Mean?
Bicameral literally means "two chambers," and in practice refers to a government structure involving two houses, or two legislative bodies, that are separate in deliberation from one another.




Why Did the U.S. Constitution Establish a Bicameral Legislature?
The Founders of the U.S. established a bicameral legislature in order to create a separation of powers. At the constitutional convention, larger states (mostly in the South) and smaller states (in the North) began to quarrel over which should wield more power at the federal level. As a compromise (called "The Great Compromise," Roger Sherman, a delegate from the colony of Connecticut, proposed bicameralism. This way, smaller states got equal representation with larger states with each having two senators. At the same time, the house of representatives assigns members of congress proportional to the population.




Which U.S. States Do Not Have a Bicameral Legislature?
All states in the U.S. but one are bicameral with both a house and a senate. The one exception is Nebraska, which has just a one-chamber legislature.
What Is a Bid?  

The term bid refers to an offer made by an individual or corporation to purchase an asset. Buyers commonly make bids at auctions and in various markets, such as the stock market. Bids may also be made by companies that compete for project contracts. When a buyer makes a bid, they stipulate how much they're willing to pay for the asset along with how much they are willing to purchase.



A bid also refers to the price at which a market maker is willing to buy a security. But unlike retail buyers, market makers must also display an ask price.





Key Takeaways

A bid is an offer made by an investor, trader, or dealer in an effort to buy an asset or to compete for a contract. The spread between the bid and the ask is a reliable indicator of supply and demand for the financial instrument.Market makers are vital to the efficiency and liquidity of the marketplace.Bids can be made live, online, through brokers, or through a closed bidding process. Types of bids include auction bids, online bids, and sealed bids. 


   How a Bid Works  

Buyers and sellers keep the market going. Each participant facilitates the purchase and sale of assets. Sellers are entities that provide assets for purchase. Buyers are those who want to purchase goods or services. These two parties normally come together at different venues to conduct their business, including auctions (live and online), the stock market, and retail outlets.



The bid process depends on the market through which these goods and services are sold. For instance, bids that are made at an auction may be made in person or online while investors may make bids through their brokers for securities like stocks. Some bids take place in secret, usually through a sealed process. This process allows for fair and conflict-free bidding.



In some cases, companies may make bids in order to win contracts for jobs. The bidding process involves sending out packages to interested parties. These contracts may be issued by governments or large corporations for infrastructure, construction, and other projects in a variety of different industries, such as:



Public safetyInformation technologyEducationSocial servicesConsulting and managementHealthcareArt and recreation


   Inside the Spread  

The spread between the bid and the ask is a reliable indicator of supply and demand for a particular financial instrument. Put simply, the greater interest on the part of the investor, the narrower the spread.



In stock trading, the spread constantly varies as buyers and sellers match electronically, where the size of the spread in dollars and cents reflects the price of the stock being traded. For example, a spread of 25 cents on a price of $10 equals 2.5%. But the spread shrinks to only 0.25% if the stock price jumps to $100.



In foreign exchange, the standard bid-ask spread in EUR/USD interbank quotes is between two and four pips (the price move in a given exchange) depending on both the amount being traded and the time of the day in which the trade occurs.



Spreads are typically narrowest during the morning in New York when the European market is simultaneously open for business. For example, a bid of 1.1015 is typically accompanied by an ask of between 1.1017 and 1.019. A standard USD/JPY bid-ask spread is 106.18 to 106.20. Currency pairs that are less actively traded tend to have wider spreads.



Many buyers make bids to procure the goods and services they seek. These may include securities (stocks, bonds, and other types of investments), commodities, currencies, or any other assets. The bid is the price of a stock for a buyer, while the ask represents the price a seller is willing to accept on the trade. The mathematical difference between the bid and the ask is known as the spread.






When completing a purchase at the bid price, both the bid and the ask may rise to significantly higher levels for subsequent transactions, if the seller perceives a strong demand.


   Market Makers  

Market makers, who are often referred to as specialists, are vital to the efficiency and liquidity of the marketplace. By quoting both bid and ask prices, they step into the stock market when electronic price matching fails, which enables investors to buy or sell a security. Although specialists must always quote a price for a stock they trade, there is no restriction on the bid-ask spread.



In the foreign exchange market, interbank traders function as market makers because they provide a continuous stream of two-way prices to both direct counterparties and the electronic trading systems. Their spreads widen during times of market volatility and uncertainty, and unlike their counterparts in the stock market, they are not required to make a price in low-liquidity markets.


   Other Types of Bids  

There is more than one way to make a bid. As mentioned above, the different types of bids depend on where the offer is being made. Some of the most common types of bids are listed below.


  Auction Bids  

Auctions are forums that bring together multiple buyers who compete for certain assets, such as livestock, home goods, properties, property tax liens, and art. These venues are usually held in person but the rise in technology has made online auctions a reality.



Buyers who participate in auctions bid against each other in order to win the asset through an open bidding process. They do so by placing competitive bids in an attempt to beat out the other buyers. The person who bids the highest amount wins the auction.


  Online Bidding  

Online bidding sites work just like traditional auctions. Sites like eBay, eBid, and QuiBids allow buyers to congregate in a virtual arena and make bids for products and services of their choosing.



For instance, someone may be selling a pair of designer sunglasses on eBay and starts an auction with a minimum price. Interested buyers can bid on the item with an amount they wish to pay until one person's bid is accepted by the seller. These sites normally require buyers to set up accounts and may also require payment card information.


  Sealed-Bids  

Unlike the two types of bids noted above, participants in some venues aren't privy to how much their competitors are bidding. This is the case with sealed-bid auctions.



A sealed-bid auction happens when multiple bidders are given envelopes in which they place their bids. The envelopes are then sealed so no one bidder can knowingly outbid the other, making the outcome fair. The highest bidder is the one who wins. This type of bidding normally takes place for contracts or real estate sales.






Make sure you don't go over your maximum amount when you're bidding at an auction.


   Examples of a Bid  

Let's take a look at how the bidding process works using two examples.


  Bidding at Sotheby's  

Sotheby's is one of the world's largest marketplaces for art and luxury goods. It operates a network in 40 countries that cater to 44 different categories, including jewelry, contemporary art, and wine and spirits. The organization holds more than 600 auctions each year in person, online, and through private sales. A winning bid of $2.68 million landed a buyer an unmounted diamond weighing 50.03 carats on June 17, 2021.


  A Ride on the Blue Origin  

Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, auctioned off a seat on his spaceship in June 2021 through a month-long bidding process. The auction, which took place live over the phone ended on June 12, 2021. The undisclosed winner bid $28 million in order to secure a place on the Blue Origin with Bezos for a sightseeing tour on July 20, 2021, from West Texas.




How Do You Bid on eBay?
You can create an account or bid on eBay as a guest. The easiest way for you to make your bids is through the automated process. This allows you to enter the total amount you're willing to pay for an item. The site then bids for you in increments without going over your maximum limit. If another individual outbids you, eBay will let you know. You can decide whether you want to place a new maximum limit.




How Do You Cancel a Bid on eBay?
Buyers can retract or cancel their bids on eBay in certain circumstances. You can cancel your bid if enter the wrong amount, when the seller makes a drastic change to the item's description, or if the seller's contact information is incorrect. Bids can also be retracted if there are more than 12 hours left in the sale. If there are less than 12 hours left, you can cancel your last bid, provided you placed it less than an hour ago. If all else fails, you can contact the seller to see if they're willing to cancel your bid.




How Do You Bid on Government Contracts?
There are a few different ways to bid on government contracts. You may have to register your company with the appropriate agency or website in order to compete for these jobs. Most government contracts are open for bids through a sealed-bid process, which means you can't see how your competition is bidding.You can bid for the contract yourself through government bidding portals, which can often take a lot of time. You can also use a bidding service, which can provide you with information on various government contracts available in your area.




What Is an Automated Bid Strategy in Google Ads?
Google Ads has an automated bid strategy that automatically places bids on a company's advertisements based on how likely they are to receive a click by someone online. Advertisers may have different goals based on the type of ad, including increasing visits by individuals to their websites and increasing their visibility by showing ads at the top of pages within Google search results.




What Is a Bid Bond?
A bid bond is a type of investment that guarantees payment to the bondholder if the bidder fails to follow through with the beginning of the project. This provides the owner of the project with some security that the bidder will abide by the contract after they are selected and that they have the financial resources to complete the project.


   The Bottom Line  

Bids allow individuals to purchase goods and services through auctions and other venues. It is a competitive process, wherein two or more entities try to outbid each other by raising the amount they're willing to pay in order to win the asset. You can put in bids for a number of different things, whether you want to buy property, livestock, luxury goods, art, vehicles, government contracts, or even financial instruments.



The spread between both the bid and ask price for certain securities, such as stocks, is usually a good indicator of the available supply and demand. While you may have your eyes on the prize, it's always important to make sure that you don't go over your maximum budget when you try to win.
What Is Bid and Ask?  

The term "bid and ask" (also known as "bid and offer") refers to a two-way price quotation that indicates the best potential price at which a security can be sold and bought at a given point in time. The bid price represents the maximum price that a buyer is willing to pay for a share of stock or other security. The ask price represents the minimum price that a seller is willing to take for that same security. A trade or transaction occurs when a buyer in the market is willing to pay the best offer available—or is willing to sell at the highest bid.



The difference between bid and ask prices, or the spread, is a key indicator of the liquidity of the asset. In general, the smaller the spread, the better the liquidity.





Key Takeaways

The bid price refers to the highest price a buyer will pay for a security.The ask price refers to the lowest price a seller will accept for a security.The difference between these two prices is known as the spread; the smaller the spread, the greater the liquidity of the given security.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Bid and Ask  

The average investor contends with the bid and ask spread as an implied cost of trading. Most investors and retail traders are "market takers," meaning that they usually will have to sell on the bid (where someone else is willing to buy) and buy at the offer (where someone else is willing to sell).



For example, if the current price quotation for the stock of ABC Corp. is $10.50 / $10.55, investor X, who is looking to buy A at the current market price, would pay $10.55, while investor Y, who wishes to sell ABC shares at the current market price, would receive $10.50.


   Who Benefits from the Bid-Ask Spread?  

The bid-ask spread works to the advantage of the market maker. Continuing with the above example, a market maker who is quoting a price of $10.50 / $10.55 for ABC stock is indicating a willingness to buy A at $10.50 (the bid price) and sell it at $10.55 (the asked price). The spread represents the market maker's profit.



Bid-ask spreads can vary widely, depending on the security and the market. Blue-chip companies that constitute the Dow Jones Industrial Average may have a bid-ask spread of only a few cents, while a small-cap stock that trades less than 10,000 shares a day may have a bid-ask spread of 50 cents or more.



The bid-ask spread can widen dramatically during periods of illiquidity or market turmoil, since traders will not be willing to pay a price beyond a certain threshold, and sellers may not be willing to accept prices below a certain level.




What Is the Difference Between a Bid Price and an Ask Price?
Bid prices refer to the highest price that traders are willing to pay for a security. The ask price, on the other hand, refers to the lowest price that the owners of that security are willing to sell it for. If, for example, a stock is trading with an ask price of $20, then a person wishing to buy that stock would need to offer at least $20 in order to purchase it at today’s price. The gap between the bid and ask prices is often referred to as the bid-ask spread.




What Does It Mean When the Bid and Ask Are Close Together?
When the bid and ask prices are very close, this typically means that there is ample liquidity in the security. In this scenario, the security is said to have a “narrow” bid-ask spread. This situation can be helpful for investors because it makes it easier to enter or exit their positions, particularly in the case of large positions.On the other hand, securities with a “wide” bid-ask spread—that is, where the bid and ask prices are far apart—can be time-consuming and expensive to trade.




How Are the Bid and Ask Prices Determined?
Bid and ask prices are set by the market. In particular, they are set by the actual buying and selling decisions of the people and institutions who invest in that security. If demand outstrips supply, then the bid and ask prices will gradually shift upwards.Conversely, if supply outstrips demand, bid and ask prices will drift downwards. The spread between the bid and ask prices is determined by the overall level of trading activity in the security, with higher activity leading to narrow bid-ask spreads and vice versa.


   The Bottom Line  

Most quotes in securities markets are two-sided, meaning they come with both a bid and an ask. The bid is the highest price at which someone is willing to buy the security, the ask or offer is the lowest price at which someone is willing to sell it. Together, the bid and ask make up the price quote, with the distance between the bid-ask spread an indicator of a security's liquidity (the tighter the spread, the more liquid). Quotes will often also show the amount of the security available at both the current best bid and ask prices. Most retail traders and investors must sell on the bid or buy on the offer, while market makers set the bid and offer prices where they are willing to buy and sell.
What Is a Bid-Ask Spread?  

A bid-ask spread is the amount by which the ask price exceeds the bid price for an asset in the market. The bid-ask spread is essentially the difference between the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay for an asset and the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept.



An individual looking to sell will receive the bid price while one looking to buy will pay the ask price.





Key Takeaways

A bid-ask spread is the difference between the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay for an asset and the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept.The spread is the transaction cost. Price takers buy at the ask price and sell at the bid price, but the market maker buys at the bid price and sells at the ask price.The bid represents demand and the ask represents supply for an asset.The bid-ask spread is the de facto measure of market liquidity.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Bid-Ask Spreads  

A security's price is the market's perception of its value at any given point in time and is unique. To understand why there is a "bid" and an "ask," one must factor in the two major players in any market transaction, namely the price taker (trader) and the market maker (counterparty).



Market makers, many of which may be employed by brokerages, offer to sell securities at a given price (the ask price) and will also bid to purchase securities at a given price (the bid price). When an investor initiates a trade, they will accept one of these two prices depending on whether they wish to buy the security (ask price) or sell the security (bid price).



The difference between these two, the spread, is the principal transaction cost of trading (outside commissions), and it is collected by the market maker through the natural flow of processing orders at the bid and ask prices. This is what financial brokerages mean when they state that their revenues are derived from traders "crossing the spread."



The bid-ask spread can be considered a measure of the supply and demand for a particular asset. The bid can be said to represent the demand for an asset and the ask represents the supply, so when these two prices move apart, the price action reflects a change in supply and demand.



The depth of the "bids" and the "asks" can have a significant impact on the bid-ask spread. The spread may widen significantly if fewer participants place limit orders to buy a security (thus generating fewer bid prices) or if fewer sellers place limit orders to sell. As such, it's critical to keep the bid-ask spread in mind when placing a buy-limit order to ensure it executes successfully.



Market makers and professional traders who recognize imminent risk in the markets may also widen the difference between the best bid and the best ask they are willing to offer at a given moment. If all market makers do this on a given security, then the quoted bid-ask spread will reflect a larger than usual size. Some high-frequency traders and market makers attempt to make money by exploiting changes in the bid-ask spread.






   The Bid-Ask Spread's Relation to Liquidity  

The size of the bid-ask spread from one asset to another differs mainly because of the difference in liquidity of each asset. The bid-ask spread is the de facto measure of market liquidity. Certain markets are more liquid than others, and that should be reflected in their lower spreads. Essentially, transaction initiators (price takers) demand liquidity while counterparties (market makers) supply liquidity.



For example, currency is considered the most liquid asset in the world, and the bid-ask spread in the currency market is one of the smallest (one-hundredth of a percent); in other words, the spread can be measured in fractions of pennies. On the other hand, less liquid assets, such as small-cap stocks, may have spreads that are equivalent to 1% to 2% of the asset's lowest ask price.



Bid-ask spreads can also reflect the market maker's perceived risk in offering a trade. For example, options or futures contracts may have bid-ask spreads that represent a much larger percentage of their price than a forex or equities trade. The width of the spread might be based not only on liquidity but also on how quickly the prices could change.


   Bid-Ask Spread Example  

If the bid price for a stock is $19 and the ask price for the same stock is $20, then the bid-ask spread for the stock in question is $1. The bid-ask spread can also be stated in percentage terms; it is customarily calculated as a percentage of the lowest sell price or ask price.



For the stock in the example above, the bid-ask spread in percentage terms would be calculated as $1 divided by $20 (the bid-ask spread divided by the lowest ask price) to yield a bid-ask spread of 5% ($1 / $20 x 100). This spread would close if a potential buyer offered to purchase the stock at a higher price or if a potential seller offered to sell the stock at a lower price.


   Elements of the Bid-Ask Spread  

Bid-ask spread trades can be done in most kinds of securities, as well as foreign exchange and commodities.



Traders use the bid-ask spread as an indicator of market liquidity. High friction between the supply and demand for that security will create a wider spread.



Most traders prefer to use limit orders instead of market orders; this allows them to choose their own entry points rather than accepting the current market price. There is a cost involved with the bid-ask spread, as two trades are being conducted simultaneously.




How Does Bid-Ask Spread Work?
In financial markets, a bid-ask spread is the difference between the asking price and the bidding price of a security or other asset. The bid-ask spread is the difference between the highest price a buyer will offer (the bid price) and the lowest price a seller will accept (the ask price). Typically, an asset with a narrow bid-ask spread will have high demand. By contrast, assets with a wide bid-ask spread may have a low volume of demand, therefore influencing wider discrepancies in its price.




What Causes a Bid-Ask Spread to Be High?
Bid-ask spread, also known as "spread", can be high due to a number of factors. First, liquidity plays a primary role. When there is a significant amount of liquidity in a given market for a security, the spread will be tighter. Stocks that are traded heavily, such as Google, Apple, and Microsoft will have a smaller bid-ask spread.Conversely, a bid-ask spread may be high to unknown, or unpopular securities on a given day. These could include small-cap stocks, which may have lower trading volumes, and a lower level of demand among investors.




What Is an Example of a Bid-Ask Spread in Stocks?
Consider the following example where a trader is looking to purchase 100 shares of Apple for $50. The trader sees that 100 shares are being offered at $50.05 in the market. Here, the spread would be $50.00 - $50.05, or $0.05 wide. While this spread may seem small or insignificant, on large trades, it can create a meaningful difference, which is why narrow spreads are typically more ideal. The total value of the bid-ask spread, in this instance, would be equal to 100 shares x $0.05, or $5.


   The Bottom Line  

The bid-ask spread serves as an effective measure of liqudity, as more liquid securities will have small spreads while illiquid ones will have larger ones. Investors should keep an eye on the spread of any security they wish to buy or sell to get a sense for how frequently it trades and to decide on the type of order to use when making a transaction.



Correction—Dec. 4, 2022: This article’s question-and-answer segment was edited from a previous version that incorrectly defined bid-ask spread.
What Is a Bid Bond?  

A bid bond guarantees compensation to the bond owner if the bidder fails to begin a project. Bid bonds are often used for construction jobs or other projects with similar bid-based selection processes.



The function of the bid bond is to provide a guarantee to the project owner that the bidder will complete the work if selected. The existence of a bid bond gives the owner assurance that the bidder has the financial means to accept the job for the price quoted in the bid.





Key Takeaways

A bid bond is a legal agreement that ensures contractors fulfill their stated obligations on a project.This form of assurance provides both financial and legal recourse to the owner of the project.Bid bonds are usually submitted in conjunction with the project's contract.Bid bonds are backed by specialized surety companies that guarantee the payments will be made if the contractor fails to uphold their end of the bargain.The other main types of construction bonds are performance and payment bonds.


   Understanding Bid Bonds  

Bid bonds ensure that contractors can comply with bid contracts and will fulfill their job responsibilities at agreed prices. Most public construction contracts require contractors or subcontractors to secure their bids by providing bonds that serve as a means of legal and financial protection to the client.



Without bid bonds, project owners would have no way of guaranteeing that the bidder they select for a project would be able to complete the job properly. For example, an underfunded bidder might run into cash flow problems along the way. Bid bonds also help clients avoid frivolous bids, which saves time when analyzing and choosing contractors.


   Requirements for Bid Bonds   

While most project owners typically require between 5% and 10% of the tender price upfront as a penalty sum, federally funded projects require 20% of the bid. The cost of the bond depends on several factors, including the jurisdiction of the project work, bid amount, and contractual terms.



For example, a contractor that is making a $250,000 bid to provide roofing for an elementary school will have to submit a bid bond of $50,000. This bid bond is required along with a proposal to be taken seriously as a contender for a federal contract.


   Writing a Bid Bond  

A bid bond can be a written guarantee made out by a third-party guarantor and submitted to a client or project owner. The bid bond affirms that the contractor has the required funds necessary to carry out the project.



Typically, bid bonds are submitted as a cash deposit by contractors for a tendered bid. A contractor purchases a bid bond from a surety, which carries out extensive financial and background checks on a contractor before approving the bond.



Several factors determine whether a contractor will be issued a bid bond. They include the company's credit history and the number of years of experience in the field. Financial statements may also be examined to determine the overall financial health of the company.


   Parties Involved  

A surety bond involves three primary players: the financial guarantor or surety of a construction bond, guaranteeing the obligee that the contractor (called the principal) will act in accordance with the terms established by the bond.



The obligee is the owner of the project who hires the contractor and requests the bond. This person or other entity sets the terms and conditions of the bond, and will file a claim if the contractor fails to perform or violates the contract.
The principal is the contractor purchasing the bond. If the contractor fails to perform they will be liable based on the terms and conditions set forth in the contract and bond.
Surety companies will evaluate the financial merits of the principal builder and charge a premium according to their calculated likelihood that an adverse event will occur.






Both the surety and contractor are held liable if the contractor fails to abide by any of the contract's conditions.


   Bid Bonds vs. Performance Bonds  

A bid bond is replaced by a performance bond when a bid is accepted and the contractor proceeds to work on the project.



A performance bond protects a client from a contractor's failure to perform according to the contractual terms. If the work done by a contractor is poor or defective, a project owner can make a claim against the performance bond. The bond provides compensation for the cost of redoing or correcting the job.


   Failure to Meet Obligations  

If the contractor does not meet the obligations of the bid bond, the contractor and the surety are held jointly and severally liable for the bond. A client will usually opt for the lowest bidder since it will mean reduced costs for the company.



If a contractor wins the bid but decides not to execute the contract for one reason or another, the client will be forced to award the second-lowest bidder the contract and pay more. In this instance, the project owner can make a claim against the full or partial amount of the bid bond. A bid bond is thus an indemnity bond that protects a client if a winning bidder fails to execute the contract or provide the required performance bonds.


  Bid Bond Liability  

The amount claimed against a bid bond typically covers the difference between the lowest bid and the next lowest bid. This difference will be paid by the bonding company or surety, which may sue the contractor to recover the costs. Whether the surety can sue the contractor depends on the terms of the bid bond.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  What is a contract bid?  

A contract bid is most commonly associated with a proposal and price submitted by a contractor or service provider to a soliciting firm for a business opportunity involving construction or renovation projects.


  Can you get a bid bond with poor credit?  

While having good credit is always helpful in matters like these, those with poor credit may still be able to obtain bid bonds from companies that agree to do so, but these will often be more costly to obtain.


  Are bid bonds returned?  

Once a project is successfully completed per the contract, the bid bond amount is returned.


  What are the 3 major types of construction bond?  

The three main types of construction bonds are bid, performance, and payment.
What Is a Bid Price?  

A bid price is a price for which somebody is willing to buy something, whether it be a security, asset, commodity, service, or contract. It is colloquially known as a “bid” in many markets and jurisdictions.



Generally, a bid is lower than an offered price, or “ask” price, which is the price at which people are willing to sell. The difference between the two prices is called a bid-ask spread​​​​​​​.



Bids are made continuously by market makers for a security and may also be made in cases where a seller requests a price where they can sell. Sometimes, a buyer will present a bid even if a seller is not actively looking to sell, in which case it is considered an unsolicited bid.





Key Takeaways

The bid price is the highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a security or asset.A bid price is generally arrived at through a process of negotiation between the seller and a single buyer or multiple buyers.The difference between the bid price and ask price is known as the market's spread, and is a measure of liquidity in that security.


   Understanding Bid Prices  

The bid price is the amount of money a buyer is willing to pay for a security. It is contrasted with the sell (ask or offer) price, which is the amount a seller is willing to sell a security for. The difference between these two prices is referred to as the spread. The spread is how market makers (MMs) derive profits. Thus, the higher the spread is, the greater the profit.



Bid prices are often specifically designed to exact a desirable outcome from the entity making the bid. For example, if the ask price of a good is forty dollars, and a buyer wants to pay thirty dollars for the good, they might make a bid of twenty dollars, and appear to compromise and give up something by agreeing to meet in the middle—exactly where they wanted to be in the first place.



When multiple buyers put in bids, it can develop into a bidding war, wherein two or more buyers place incrementally higher bids. For example, a firm may set an asking price of five thousand dollars on a good. Bidder A might make a bid of three thousand dollars. Bidder B may offer three thousand and five hundred dollars. Bidder A might counter with four thousand dollars.



Eventually, a price will be settled upon when a buyer makes an offer which their rivals are unwilling to top. This is quite beneficial to the seller, as it puts a second pressure on the buyers to pay a higher price than if there was a single prospective buyer.





NBBO

Quotes will often show the national best bid and offer (NBBO) from across all exchanges that a security is listed. That means that the best bid price may come from a different exchange or location than the best offer.



In the context of stock trading, the bid price refers to the highest amount of money a prospective buyer is willing to spend for it. Most quote prices as displayed by quote services and on stock tickers are the highest bid price available for a given good, stock, or commodity. The ask or offer price displayed by said quote services corresponds directly to the lowest asking price for a given stock or commodity on the market. In an options market, bid prices can also be market-makers, if the market for the options contract is illiquid or lacks enough liquidity.


  Buying and Selling at the Bid  

Investors and traders that initiate a market order to buy will typically do so at the current ask price and sell at the current bid price. Limit orders, in contrast, allow investors and traders to place a buy order at the bid price (or a sell order at the ask), which could get them a better fill.



Those looking to sell at the market price may be said to "hit the bid."


   Bid Size  

In addition to the price that people are willing to buy, the amount or volume bid for is also important for understanding the liquidity of a market. Bid sizes are typically displayed along with a level 1 quote. If the quote indicates a bid price of $50 and a bid size of 500, that you can sell up to 500 shares at $50.



Bid size may be contrasted with the ask size, where the ask size is the amount of a particular security that investors are offering to sell at the specified ask price. Investors interpret differences in the bid size and ask size as representing the supply and demand relationship for that security.


   Example of Bid Price  

Suppose Alex wants to buy shares in company ABC. The stock is trading in a range between $10 and $15. But Alex is not willing to pay more than $12 for them, so they place a limit order of $12 for ABC's shares. This is their bid price.
What Is Bid Size?  

The bid size represents the quantity of a security that investors are willing to purchase at a specified bid price. For most investors, who view level 1 quotes on their trading screens, the bid size represents the amount of shares that investors are willing to purchase at the best available bid price.





Key Takeaways

Bid size represents the quantity of a security that investors are willing to purchase at a specified bid price.Bid size is stated in board lots representing 100 shares each. Therefore, a bid size of four represents 400 shares.Bid sizes are important because they reflect the demand and liquidity of a security.Level 1 quotations will only show the bid size for the best available bid price. Level 2 quotations show depth of market information on many layers of bid prices and bid sizes.


   How Bid Size Works  

Bid sizes are typically displayed in board lots representing 100 shares each. Therefore, if a level 1 quote shows a bid price of $50 and a bid size of five, that means that the best available offer from investors looking to buy the security is $50 per share to buy 500 shares. An investor who owns that stock could therefore sell up to 500 shares at $50 per share.



Bid size is the opposite of ask size, where the ask size is the amount of a particular security that investors are offering to sell at the specified ask price. Investors interpret differences in the bid size and ask size as representing the supply and demand relationship for that security.



In addition to the best available bid price, there will often be many more bid prices available at lower prices, each with their own bid size. This additional information can be viewed using level 2 market quotations.


   Real World Example of Bid Size  

For example, in keeping with our security above, there might be a bid size of 10 (1,000 shares) at a bid price of $49. In that scenario, an investor wishing to sell 1,500 shares could sell them for a combined price of $74,000 ($25,000 from the first 500 shares, plus $49,000 for the remaining 1,000 shares).



Level 2 quotes are required in order to see the data concerning bid prices and bid prices below the best available bid. This information is typically available as a premium feature in most brokerage accounts.



The purpose of this “depth of market” (DOM) information is to provide insight into the size and structure of liquidity for the security. For instance, in our example above it may be the case that after selling 1,500 shares the next best bid price would be much lower, say $40.



In this scenario, an investor who sells significantly more than 1,500 shares would cause the market price of the security to fall sharply. Such an investor may choose to delay not only to obtain a better price, but also to avoid causing the price of their remaining shares to decline.
What Is Big Data?  

Big data refers to the large, diverse sets of information that grow at ever-increasing rates. It encompasses the volume of information, the velocity or speed at which it is created and collected, and the variety or scope of the data points being covered (known as the "three v's" of big data). Big data often comes from data mining and arrives in multiple formats.





Key Takeaways

Big data is a great quantity of diverse information that arrives in increasing volumes and with ever-higher velocity.Big data can be structured (often numeric, easily formatted and stored) or unstructured (more free-form, less quantifiable).Nearly every department in a company can utilize findings from big data analysis, but handling its clutter and noise can pose problems.Big data can be collected from publicly shared comments on social networks and websites, voluntarily gathered from personal electronics and apps, through questionnaires, product purchases, and electronic check-ins.Big data is most often stored in computer databases and is analyzed using software specifically designed to handle large, complex data sets.


   How Big Data Works  

Big data can be categorized as unstructured or structured. Structured data consists of information already managed by the organization in databases and spreadsheets; it is frequently numeric in nature. Unstructured data is information that is unorganized and does not fall into a predetermined model or format. It includes data gathered from social media sources, which help institutions gather information on customer needs.



Big data can be collected from publicly shared comments on social networks and websites, voluntarily gathered from personal electronics and apps, through questionnaires, product purchases, and electronic check-ins. The presence of sensors and other inputs in smart devices allows for data to be gathered across a broad spectrum of situations and circumstances.



Big data is most often stored in computer databases and is analyzed using software specifically designed to handle large, complex data sets. Many software-as-a-service (SaaS) companies specialize in managing this type of complex data.


   The Uses of Big Data  

Data analysts look at the relationship between different types of data, such as demographic data and purchase history, to determine whether a correlation exists. Such assessments may be done in-house or externally by a third-party that focuses on processing big data into digestible formats. Businesses often use the assessment of big data by such experts to turn it into actionable information.






Many companies, such as Alphabet and Meta (formerly Facebook), use big data to generate ad revenue by placing targeted ads to users on social media and those surfing the web.



Nearly every department in a company can utilize findings from data analysis, from human resources and technology to marketing and sales. The goal of big data is to increase the speed at which products get to market, to reduce the amount of time and resources required to gain market adoption, target audiences, and to ensure customers remain satisfied.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Big Data  

The increase in the amount of data available presents both opportunities and problems. In general, having more data on customers (and potential customers) should allow companies to better tailor products and marketing efforts in order to create the highest level of satisfaction and repeat business. Companies that collect a large amount of data are provided with the opportunity to conduct deeper and richer analysis for the benefit of all stakeholders.






With the amount of personal data available on individuals today, it is crucial that companies take steps to protect this data; a topic which has become a hot debate in today's online world, particularly with the many data breaches companies have experienced in the last few years.



While better analysis is a positive, big data can also create overload and noise, reducing its usefulness. Companies must handle larger volumes of data and determine which data represents signals compared to noise. Deciding what makes the data relevant becomes a key factor.



Furthermore, the nature and format of the data can require special handling before it is acted upon. Structured data, consisting of numeric values, can be easily stored and sorted. Unstructured data, such as emails, videos, and text documents, may require more sophisticated techniques to be applied before it becomes useful.
What Is a Bilateral Contract?  

A bilateral contract is an agreement between two parties in which each side agrees to fulfill their side of the bargain. Typically, bilateral contracts involve an equal obligation or consideration from the offeror and the offeree, although this need not always be the case.



In more complex situations, such as multinational trade negotiations, a bilateral contract can be a so-called "side deal." That is, both parties are involved in the general negotiations but may also see the need for a separate contract relevant only to their shared interests.





Key Takeaways:

A bilateral contract is the most common type of binding agreement, which involves concessions or obligations owed by both sides of the contract.Any sales agreement, lease, or employment contract are common examples of a bilateral contract.A unilateral agreement, in contrast, requires only one party to commit to an obligation.


   How a Bilateral Contract Works  

The bilateral contract is the most common kind of binding agreement. Each party is both an obligor (a person who is bound to another) to its own promise, and an obligee (a person to whom another is obligated or bound) on the other party's promise. A contract is signed so that the agreement is clear and legally enforceable.



Any sales agreement is an example of a bilateral contract. A car buyer may agree to pay the seller a certain amount of money in exchange for the title to the car. The seller agrees to deliver the car title in exchange for the specified sale amount. If either party fails to complete one end of the bargain, a breach of contract has occurred.



In that sense, virtually all of our daily routine transactions are bilateral contracts, sometimes with a signed agreement and often without one.



Business contracts are almost always bilateral. Businesses provide a product or service in exchange for financial compensation, so most businesses are constantly entering into bilateral contracts with customers or suppliers. An employment agreement, in which a company promises to pay an applicant a certain rate for completing specified tasks, is also a bilateral contract.






When determining whether a contract is unilateral or bilateral in nature, courts will often consider whether both parties offered something specific of value—in which case, the contract is bilateral.


   Bilateral vs. Unilateral Contracts  

As noted, a bilateral contract by definition has reciprocal obligations. That makes it distinct from a unilateral contract. In a unilateral contract, one party is obligated to fulfill its obligation only if and when the other party completes a specified task. A unilateral contract typically involves the first party issuing a payment only on completion of the second party's task.



In legal terms, that second party in a unilateral contract is not obliged to actually perform the task, and may not be found in breach of contract for not doing so. If it were a bilateral contract, both parties would have a legal obligation.



An example of a unilateral contract might be a contest to find a buried treasure to win $1 million. No one is obligated to hunt for the treasure, but if someone finds it, the contest creator is obliged to pay $1 million to that person. If the nature of a contract is disputed, a court will judge the merits of the claim against the content of the contract, determining if one or both parties maintain an obligation or concession.
What Is Bilateral Trade?  

Bilateral trade is the exchange of goods between two nations promoting trade and investment. The two countries will reduce or eliminate tariffs, import quotas, export restraints, and other trade barriers to encourage trade and investment.



In the United States, the Office of Bilateral Trade Affairs minimizes trade deficits through negotiating free trade agreements with new countries, supporting and improving existing trade agreements, promoting economic development abroad, and other actions. 





Key Takeaways

Bilateral trade agreements are agreements between countries to promote trade and commerce.They eliminate trade barriers such as tariffs, import quotas, and export restraints in order to encourage trade and investment.The main advantage of bilateral trade agreements is an expansion of the market for a country's goods through concerted negotiation between two countries.Bilateral trade agreements can also result in the closing down of smaller companies unable to compete with large multinational corporations.


   Understanding Bilateral Trade  

The goals of bilateral trade agreements are to expand access between two countries’ markets and increase their economic growth. Standardized business operations in five general areas prevent one country from stealing another’s innovative products, dumping goods at a small cost, or using unfair subsidies. Bilateral trade agreements standardize regulations, labor standards, and environmental protections. 



The United States has signed bilateral trade agreements with 20 countries, some of which include Israel, Jordan, Australia, Chile, Singapore, Bahrain, Morocco, Oman, Peru, Panama, and Colombia.﻿﻿﻿



The Dominican Republic-Central America FTR (CAFTA-DR) is a free trade agreement signed between the United States and smaller economies of Central America, as well as the Dominican Republic.﻿﻿﻿ The Central American countries are El Salvador, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Honduras. NAFTA replaced the bilateral agreements with Canada and Mexico in 1994. The U.S. renegotiated NAFTA under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which went into effect in 2020.﻿﻿﻿


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Bilateral Trade  

Compared to multilateral trade agreements, bilateral trade agreements are negotiated more easily, because only two nations are party to the agreement. Bilateral trade agreements initiate and reap trade benefits faster than multilateral agreements.



When negotiations for a multilateral trade agreement are unsuccessful, many nations will negotiate bilateral treaties instead. However, new agreements often result in competing agreements between other countries, eliminating the advantages the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) confers between the original two nations.



Bilateral trade agreements also expand the market for a country's goods. The United States vigorously pursued free trade agreements with a number of countries under the Bush administration during the early 2000s.﻿﻿



In addition to creating a market for U.S. goods, the expansion helped spread the mantra of trade liberalization and encouraged open borders for trade. However, bilateral trade agreements can skew a country's markets when large multinational corporations, which have significant capital and resources to operate at scale, enter a market dominated by smaller players. As a result, the latter might need to close shop when they are competed out of existence.


   Examples of Bilateral Trade  

In October 2014, the United States and Brazil settled a longstanding cotton dispute in the World Trade Organization (WTO).﻿﻿﻿﻿ Brazil terminated the case, relinquishing its rights to countermeasures against U.S. trade or further proceedings in the dispute.



Brazil also agreed to not bring new WTO actions against U.S. cotton support programs while the current U.S. Farm Bill was in force, or against agricultural export credit guarantees under the GSM-102 program. Because of the agreement, American businesses were no longer subject to countermeasures such as increased tariffs totaling hundreds of millions of dollars annually.



In March 2016, the U.S. government and the government of Peru reached an agreement removing barriers for U.S. beef exports to Peru that had been in effect since 2003.﻿﻿﻿﻿



The agreement opened one of the fastest-growing markets in Latin America. In 2015, the United States exported $25.4 million in beef and beef products to Peru. Removal of Peru’s certification requirements, known as the export verification program, assured American ranchers expanded market access.



The agreement reflected the U.S. negligible risk classification for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE).



The United States and Peru agreed to amendments in certification statements making beef and beef products from federally inspected U.S. establishments eligible for export to Peru, rather than just beef and beef products from establishments participating in the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) Export Verification (EV) programs under previous certification requirements.
What Is a Bill Auction?  

A bill auction is a public auction, held weekly by the U.S. Treasury, of federal debt obligations—specifically, Treasury bills (T-bills), whose maturies range from one month to one year. As of May 2021, there are 24 authorized primary dealers who are required to participate in the auction, and bid directly upon each issue. A bill auction is the official manner in which all U.S. Treasury bills are issued.





key takeaways

Treasury bills are issued through an electronic bill auction, which the government conducts every week.The bill auction is open to the public, both institutional and individual investors; 24 primary dealers—financial institutions and brokerages—are required to participate.Participants are divided into competitive and non-competitive bidders. The competitive bids determine the discount rate to be paid on each T-bill issue. Non-competitive bids are guaranteed to get their securities, though they must accept the rate set by the competitive bids.The lowest discount rate that meets the supply of debt being sold serves as the “winning” yield.


   Understanding a Bill Auction  

The weekly bill auction is actually an electronic Dutch auction. In this sort of proceeding, investors place a bid for the amount of the offering they are willing to buy in terms of quantity and price. The best bid wins, of course, but the offering's price is set after all the bids are taken in and sorted, as opposed to it rising sequentially as bidders consecutively counter each other.



To kickstart the process, an announcement is released several days before the auction is to occur. The announcement includes information such as the auction date, issue date, amount of securities that will be sold, bidding close times, participation eligibility, etc. Bids are accepted up to 30 days in advance.



Once it begins, the bill auction accepts competitive bids to determine the discount rate to be paid on each issue. A group of securities dealers (banks and brokerages), known as primary dealers, are authorized and obligated to submit competitive bids on a pro-rata share of every Treasury bill auction. The winning bid on each issue will determine the interest rate that is paid on that issue. Once an issue is purchased, the dealers are allowed to hold, sell, or trade the bills. The demand for T-bills at auction is determined by market and economic conditions.






All bill auctions are open to the public through Treasury Direct or the Treasury Automated Auction Processing System (TAAPS).


   Who Participates in a Bill Auction?  

Participants in any Treasury auction consist of retail investors and institutional investors who submit bids categorized as either competitive or non-competitive tenders. Non-competitive tenders are submitted by smaller investors. In effect, these investors are bidding a bit blind: While they are guaranteed to receive bills, they won't know the exact final price or what discount rate they will receive until the auction closes. An investor who submits a non-competitive bid agrees to accept the final discount rate, which is determined by the competitive side of the auction.



Competitive tenders are submitted by bigger investors, such as institutional investors. Each bidder is limited to 35% of the amount of the offering per bill auction. Each bid submitted specifies the lowest rate or discount margin that the investor is willing to accept for the debt securities. The bids with the lowest discount rate will be accepted first. The lowest discount rate that meets the supply of debt being sold serves as the “winning” yield or the highest accepted yield, after all non-competitive bids have been subtracted from the total amount of securities offered.



Unlike the non-competitive bidders, competitive bidders are not guaranteed to receive any T-bills—as approval of their bid depends on the discount yield that they offered to accept. If their offered price is too low, they may end up getting locked out of the offering. All investors, competitive and non-competitive, who bid at or above the level of the winning yield receive securities with this discount rate.






The non-competitive bid closing time for bills is normally 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on auction day. The competitive bid closing time for bills is normally 11:30 a.m. Eastern Time on auction day.


   How a Bid Auction Works  

For example, suppose the Treasury seeks to raise $9 million in one-year T-bills with a 5% discount rate. (The minimum amount you can buy a bill for is $100, although the most commonly sold bills have a par between $1,000 and $10,000.) Let's assume the competitive bids submitted are as follows:



$1 million at 4.79%



$2.5 million at 4.85%



$2 million at 4.96%



$1.5 million at 5%



$3 million at 5.07%



$1 million at 5.1%



$5 million at 5.5%



The bids with the lowest discount rates will be accepted first since the government will prefer to pay lower yields to investors. In this case, since the Treasury is looking to raise $9 million, it will accept the bids with the lowest rates up to 5.07%. At this mark of 5.07%, only $2 million of the $3 million bid will be approved. All bids below the 5.07% rate will be accepted, and bids above will be rejected. In effect, this auction is cleared at 5.07%, and all successful competitive and non-competitive bidders receive the 5.07% discount rate.



On issue day, Treasury delivers T-bills to non-competitive bidders who made their submissions in a particular bill auction. In exchange, Treasury charges the accounts of those bidders for payment of the securities. The purchase price of the T-bill is expressed as a price per hundred dollars.



Correction - April 6, 2023: This article has been updated to correct the example of which bids would be accepted and rejected by the Treasury.
What Is a Bill of Materials (BOM)?  

A bill of materials (BOM) is an extensive list of raw materials, components, and instructions required to construct, manufacture, or repair a product or service. A bill of materials usually appears in a hierarchical format, with the highest level displaying the finished product and the bottom level showing individual components and materials.



There are different types of bills of materials. Engineering BOMs are specific to engineering used in the design process; manufacturing BOMs are specific to the manufacturing used in the assembly process.





Key Takeaways

A bill of materials (BOM) is a centralized source of information containing a list of items used to manufacture a product and the instructions on how to do so.Often shown in a hierarchical way, a bill of materials lists the finished product at the top, followed by individual components and materials.Bills of materials can be presented as an explosion display or an implosion display.The two main types of bills of materials are manufacturing bills of materials and engineering bills of materials.


   Understanding a Bill of Materials (BOM)  

A bill of materials (BOM) is a centralized source of information used to manufacture a product. It is a list of the items needed to create a product as well as the instructions on how to assemble that product. Manufacturers that build products start the assembly process by creating a BOM.



Creating an accurate bill of materials is vital because it ensures that parts are available when needed and that the assembly process is as efficient as possible. If the BOM is not accurate, it can cause production to halt, which increases operating costs, as time is needed to locate missing parts, start another production order, or determine the correct process of assembly.



The different types of bills of materials (BOMs) depend on the type of project and the business needs. Common functions that utilize BOMs are engineering, design, operations, and manufacturing.






A manufacturing BOM is essential in designing enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and in materials requirement planning (MRP).



Items included in a BOM are the part number, part name, quantity, unit of measurement, assembly references, method of parts construction, and additional notes.


   Bills of Materials Displays  

A BOM displays its information in one of two ways: an explosion display or an implosion display. A bill of materials (BOM) explosion display shows an assembly at the highest level broken down into its individual components and parts at the lowest level. A BOM implosion display links individual parts at the lower level to an assembly at the higher level.



For example, a computer is exploded into hard drives, computer chips, random access memory panels, and processors. Each processor is exploded into an arithmetic unit, a control unit, and a register. The requirements for the arithmetic unit, control unit, and register are imploded into the requirements for the processor, which are imploded into the requirements for the entire computer.


   Types of Bills of Materials  

A BOM list is necessary when building a product and ordering replacement parts, and reduces possible issues if product repairs are required. It helps to plan for acquisition orders and reduces the possibility of errors. The two main types of BOMs are engineering BOMs and manufacturing BOMs.


  Engineering BOM  

An engineering bill of materials defines the design of the finished product. It includes all alternative and substitute part numbers and parts contained in the drawing notes. Every line of the bill of materials includes the product code, part name, part number, part revision, description, quantity, unit of measure, size, length, weight, and specifications or features of the product.



The engineering BOM is often organized by engineers based on a computer-aided design (CAD) drawing. For a finished product, there may be more than one engineering BOM created. This is a part of product lifecycle management.


  Manufacturing BOM  

A manufacturing bill of materials (BOM) comprises all the assemblies and parts required to construct a finished item ready to be shipped. It also incorporates the packaging materials required to send the product to the customer. It contains processes that require execution on the product prior to completion and stores all the information required for manufacturing activities.




What Is a Bill of Materials Used for?
A bill of materials shows the relationship between the finished product and its components. It's useful for estimating the cost of materials, planning purchases, ensuring availability of parts, and avoiding delays in production.




What's the Advantage of Using a Bill of Materials?
The advantage of using a bill of materials is streamlining and improving the efficiency of the manufacturing process by enabling detailed planning. A bill of materials can also help to reduce waste, identify vulnerabilities in a product's components, and stay ahead of materials shortages or supply chain disruptions.




How Do You Create a Bill of Materials?
When creating a bill of materials, include the following key components:Name of product or assemblyBOM levelRaw materials used, including quantity and unit of measureSub-assemblies usedPart number, name, and description for each partUnit costQuantity


   The Bottom Line  

A bill of materials is an important part of the engineering and manufacturing process. It's a comprehensive list of all parts and materials required to build a product, and an accurate BOM is vital to reducing waste, streamlining production, and ensuring the availability of necessary parts. Bills of materials facilitate efficiency and help companies manage their operations costs.
What Is a Billing Cycle?  

A billing cycle is the interval of time from the end of one billing statement date to the next billing statement date for goods or services a company provides to another company or consumer on a recurring basis. Although billing cycles are most often set on a monthly basis, they can vary in length depending on the type of product or service rendered.





Key Takeaways

A billing cycle refers to the interval of time from the end of one billing statement date to the next billing statement date.A billing cycle is traditionally set on a monthly basis but may vary depending on the product or service rendered.Billing cycles guide companies on when to charge customers, and they help businesses estimate how much revenue they will receive.Billing cycles help customers regulate their expectations regarding the payment timetables so they can budget their money responsibly.


   Understanding Billing Cycle  

Billing cycles guide companies on when to charge customers while helping internal departments, such as accounts receivable units monitor the amount of revenue yet to be collected.



At the end of every billing cycle, customers are granted a certain amount of time to remit payment. This window, known as the grace period, is similar to a moratorium period, which is defined as a specific period of time in which a lender lets a borrower stop making payments on a loan.


   Examples of Billing Cycles  

The date at which the billing cycle begins depends on various factors, including the type of service being offered and the customer’s needs. For example, an apartment complex may issue a bill for rent on the first day of every month, regardless of when tenants signed their individual leases. This style of billing cycle can simplify accounting while making it easier for tenants to remember the payment due date. Companies may also choose to use a rolling billing cycle. For example, a cable TV provider may set a customer’s billing cycle to align with the date on which that customer first received a signal.






If charges are not remitted in full by a due date, they are rolled over to the next billing cycle, which may trigger late fees and interest charges.


   Determining the Length of a Billing Cycle  

Although the lengths of billing cycles tend to fall in line with industry norms, vendors can shorten or augment their individual billing cycles in ways that help them better manage cash flows or accommodate changes in the creditworthiness of customers. For example, a wholesaler who distributes produce to a supermarket chain might need to accelerate the receipt of cash flows because the company from which it leases delivery trucks has tightened its billing cycle for the wholesaler. As another example, consider a situation where a retail store owner has fallen into the habit of making the occasional late payment to his supplier. In this situation, the wholesaler may compress the billing cycle from four weeks to three weeks, to anticipate for the delinquency. The flexibility of the billing cycle can go the other way, too. For example, suppose a large corporate customer needs to lengthen the cycle from 30 days to 45 days for software-as-a-service (SaaS). If the creditworthiness of this customer is sound, the vendor will normally agree to do so.
What Is a Bill of Exchange?  

A bill of exchange is a written order used primarily in international trade that binds one party to pay a fixed sum of money to another party on demand or at a predetermined date. Bills of exchange are similar to checks and promissory notes—they can be drawn by individuals or banks and are generally transferable by endorsements.





Key Takeaways

A bill of exchange is a written order binding one party to pay a fixed sum of money to another party on demand or at some point in the future.A bill of exchange often includes three parties—the drawee is the party that pays the sum, the payee receives that sum, and the drawer is the one that obliges the drawee to pay the payee.A bill of exchange is used in international trade to help importers and exporters fulfill transactions.While a bill of exchange is not a contract itself, the involved parties can use it to specify the terms of a transaction, such as the credit terms and the rate of accrued interest.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Bills of Exchange  

A bill of exchange transaction can involve up to three parties. The drawee is the party that pays the sum specified by the bill of exchange. The payee is the one who receives that sum. The drawer is the party that obliges the drawee to pay the payee. The drawer and the payee are the same entity unless the drawer transfers the bill of exchange to a third-party payee.



Unlike a check, however, a bill of exchange is a written document outlining a debtor's indebtedness to a creditor. It's frequently used in international trade to pay for goods or services. While a bill of exchange is not a contract itself, the involved parties can use it to fulfill the terms of a contract. It can specify that payment is due on demand or at a specified future date. It's often extended with credit terms, such as 90 days. As well, a bill of exchange must be accepted by the drawee to be valid.



Bills of exchange generally do not pay interest, making them in essence post-dated checks. They may accrue interest if not paid by a certain date, however, in which case the rate must be specified on the instrument. They can, conversely, be transferred at a discount before the date specified for payment. A bill of exchange must clearly detail the amount of money, the date, and the parties involved including the drawer and drawee.



If a bill of exchange is issued by a bank, it can be referred to as a bank draft. The issuing bank guarantees payment on the transaction. If bills of exchange are issued by individuals, they can be referred to as trade drafts. If the funds are to be paid immediately or on-demand, the bill of exchange is known as a sight draft. In international trade, a sight draft allows an exporter to hold title to the exported goods until the importer takes delivery and immediately pays for them. However, if the funds are to be paid at a set date in the future, it is known as a time draft. A time draft gives the importer a short amount of time to pay the exporter for the goods after receiving them.






Bills of exchange are useful in international trade because they help buyers and sellers deal with the risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations and differences in legal jurisdictions.



The difference between a promissory note and a bill of exchange is that the latter is transferable and can bind one party to pay a third party that was not involved in its creation. Banknotes are common forms of promissory notes. A bill of exchange is issued by the creditor and orders a debtor to pay a particular amount within a given period of time. The promissory note, on the other hand, is issued by the debtor and is a promise to pay a particular amount of money in a given period.


   Example of Bill of Exchange  

Say Company ABC purchases auto parts from Car Supply XYZ for $25,000. Car Supply XYZ draws a bill of exchange, becoming the drawer and payee in this case. The bill of exchange stipulates that Company ABC will pay Car Supply XYZ $25,000 in 90 days. Company ABC becomes the drawee and accepts the bill of exchange and the goods are shipped. In 90 days, Car Supply XYZ will present the bill of exchange to Company ABC for payment. The bill of exchange was an acknowledgment created by Car Supply XYZ, which was also the creditor in this case, to show the indebtedness of Company ABC, the debtor.




What Are Some Differences Between a Bill of Exchange and a Check?
A check always involves a bank while a bill of exchange can involve anyone, including a bank. Checks are payable on demand while a bill of exchange can specify that payment is due on demand or at a specified future date. Bills of exchange generally do not pay interest, making them in essence post-dated checks. They may accrue interest if not paid by a certain date, but that rate must be specified on the instrument. Unlike a check, a bill of exchange is a written document outlining a debtor's indebtedness to a creditor.




Who Are the Parties to a Bill of Exchange?
A bill of exchange transaction can involve up to three parties. The drawee is the party that pays the sum specified by the bill of exchange. The payee is the one who receives that sum. The drawer is the party that obliges the drawee to pay the payee. The drawer and the payee are the same entity unless the drawer transfers the bill of exchange to a third-party payee.




What Are the Different Types of Bills of Exchange?
A bill of exchange issued by a bank is referred to as a bank draft. The issuing bank guarantees payment on the transaction. A bill of exchange issued by individuals is referred to as a trade draft. If the funds are to be paid immediately or on-demand, the bill of exchange is known as a sight draft. In international trade, a sight draft allows an exporter to hold title to the exported goods until the importer takes delivery and immediately pays for them. However, if the funds are to be paid at a set date in the future, it is known as a time draft which gives the importer a short amount of time to pay the exporter for the goods after receiving them.




What's the Difference Between Bill of Exchange and Promissory Note?
The difference between a promissory note and a bill of exchange is that the latter is transferable and can bind one party to pay a third party that was not involved in its creation. Banknotes are common forms of promissory notes. A bill of exchange is issued by the creditor and orders a debtor to pay a particular amount within a given period of time. The promissory note, on the other hand, is issued by the debtor and is a promise to pay a particular amount of money in a given period.
What Is a Bill of Lading?  

A bill of lading (BL or BoL) is a legal document issued by a carrier (transportation company) to a shipper that details the type, quantity, and destination of the goods being carried. A bill of lading also serves as a shipment receipt when the carrier delivers the goods at a predetermined destination. This document must accompany the shipped products, no matter the form of transportation, and must be signed by an authorized representative from the carrier, shipper, and receiver.





Key Takeaways

A bill of lading is a legal document issued by a carrier to a shipper that details the type, quantity, and destination of the goods being carried.A bill of lading is a document of title, a receipt for shipped goods, and a contract between a carrier and a shipper.This document must accompany the shipped goods and must be signed by an authorized representative from the carrier, shipper, and receiver.If managed and reviewed properly, a bill of lading can help prevent asset theft.There are different types of bills of lading, so it’s important to choose the right one.












Jiaqi Zhou / Investopedia


   Understanding Bills of Lading  

The bill of lading is a legally binding document that provides the carrier and the shipper with all of the necessary details to accurately process a shipment. It has three main functions:



It is a document of title to the goods described in the bill of lading.
It is a receipt for the shipped products.
It represents the agreed terms and conditions for the transportation of the goods.













As an example, a logistics company intends to transport, via heavy truck, gasoline from a plant in Texas (shipper) to a gas station in Arizona (recipient). A plant representative and the driver sign the bill of lading after loading the gas on the truck. Once the carrier delivers the fuel to the gas station in Arizona, the truck driver requests that the station clerk also sign the document.



Every business needs to have internal controls in place to prevent theft. One key component of internal control is the segregation of duties, which prevents one employee from having too much control within a business. No two internal controls systems are the same. However, most follow a standard set of core philosophies that have become standard management practices. Implementing internal controls can help streamline operations and prevent fraud. A bill of lading is one of several key documents that must be properly managed and reviewed to prevent asset theft.


   Types of Bills of Lading  

There are several types of bills of lading. Some of the most common include:



Inland bill of lading
Ocean bill of lading
Through bill of lading
Negotiable bill of lading
Nonnegotiable bill of lading
Claused bill of lading
Clean bill of lading
Uniform bill of lading






Choosing the appropriate bill of lading is essential. For example, doing so can either prevent delivery delays or help locate goods that get lost during transport.


   Bill of Lading Example  

Assume, for example, that XYZ Fine Dining receives shipments of fresh meat and fish five times a week. The restaurant manager determines the type and amount of meat and fish that the restaurant needs to order. They then fill out a purchase order (PO), and XYZ’s owner reviews and initials each PO before it is emailed to the food vendor. The vendor gathers the meat and fish and signs a bill of lading along with a representative from the overnight carrier.



Next, the carrier delivers the food to the restaurant, and the manager compares the information on the bill of lading to what was requested on the PO. If the information matches, the PO and the bill of lading are sent to the owner, who reviews the documents and writes a check payable to the food vendor.



In this example, the owner does not issue a check to the vendor without reviewing the purchase order and the bill of lading. This step ensures that XYZ pays only for what it ordered and received. If the two documents do not match when the restaurant manager compares them, the manager will ask the vendor about the exception. A third employee reconciles the bank statement and makes company deposits. All of these steps must be in place to prevent theft.




Why is a bill of lading important?
The importance of a bill of lading lies in the fact that it’s a legally binding document that provides the carrier and the shipper with all of the necessary details to accurately process a shipment. This implies that it can be used in litigation if the need should arise and that all parties involved will take great pains to ensure the accuracy of the document.Essentially, a bill of lading works as undisputed proof of shipment. Furthermore, a bill of lading allows for the segregation of duties that is a vital part of a firm’s internal control structure to prevent theft.




What is the purpose of a bill of lading?
A bill of lading has three main purposes. First, it is a document of title to the goods described in the bill of lading. Second, it is a receipt for the shipped products. Finally, it represents the agreed terms and conditions for the transportation of the goods.




What is in a bill of lading?
Typically, a bill of lading will include the names and addresses of the shipper (consignor) and the receiver (consignee), shipment date, quantity, exact weight, value, and freight classification. Also included are a complete description of the items, including whether they’re classified as hazardous; type of packaging used; any specific instructions for the carrier; and any special order tracking numbers.




What is a bill of lading vs. an invoice?
A bill of lading is a legal document between a shipper and a transport company (carrier) that spells out the type, quantity, and destination of the goods being transported. An invoice tracks the sale of goods between a buyer and a seller.


   The Bottom Line  

A bill of lading is a contract issued by a transport company to a shipper that spells out the quantity, type, and destination of the goods being shipped. It serves as a receipt of the shipment and can help prevent the theft of goods being transported. It’s crucial to understand the different types of bills of lading to ensure that the right ones are chosen. If not, your shipment will likely be delayed.
What Is Binance Coin (BNB)?  

Binance Coin is the cryptocurrency issued by Binance exchange and trades with the BNB symbol. As of August 2023, Binance Exchange is the largest cryptocurrency exchange in the world, with a volume of $6.7 billion.





Key Takeaways

Binance Coin is the cryptocurrency issued by the Binance exchange and trades with the BNB symbol.BNB was initially based on the Ethereum network but is now the native currency of Binance's own blockchain, the Binance chain.Every quarter, Binance uses one-fifth of its profits to repurchase and permanently destroy, or "burn," Binance coins held in its treasury.Binance was created as a utility token for discounted trading fees in 2017, but its uses have expanded to numerous applications, including payments for transaction fees (on the Binance Chain), travel bookings, entertainment, online services, and financial services.At the time of writing, Binance Coin had a market cap of more than $36 billion and ranks behind only Bitcoin, Ethereum, and USD Tether in terms of market cap.


   Understanding Binance Coin (BNB)  

Binance coin initially ran on the Ethereum blockchain with ERC 20 standard but has since become the native coin of the Binance chain. It was launched during an initial coin offering (ICO) in July 2017 and has a strict maximum of 200 million BNB tokens. It offered 10%, or 20 million, BNB tokens to angel investors, 40%, or 80 million, tokens to the founding team, and the remaining 50%, or 100 million, to the various participants through the ICO process.



Almost half the funds raised during the ICO process were intended to be used for Binance branding and marketing, while around one-third were used to build the Binance platform and perform necessary upgrades to the Binance ecosystem.



BNB was initially based on the Ethereum network but is now the native currency of Binance's own blockchain, the Binance chain.





Biggest Cryptos 

As of August 15, 2023, BNB was the fourth-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, behind only Bitcoin, Ethereum, and USD Tether. 


   Binance Coin Burning  

Although 100 million Binance tokens were initially offered in the ICO, the current total supply is lower. Every quarter, Binance uses one-fifth of its profits to repurchase and permanently destroy, or "burn," Binance coins held in its treasury.



Binance has regularly performed these burning events. The latest BNB burn came on April 14, 2023, when Binance burned a total of 2,020,132.25 BNB, equivalent to $676,744,304 USD worth of tokens. It is Binance's 23rd quarterly BNB burn and its one of the largest ever in terms of U.S. dollars.


   Binance Coin Uses and Support  

Binance was created as a utility token for discounted trading fees in 2017. But since then, its uses have expanded to numerous applications on a wide number of platforms. It is used to pay for transaction fees on Binance.com, Binance DEX, and Binance Chain.



It can also be used for payments (at places like Crypto.com, Monetha, and HTC); to book travel accommodations (at sites such as TravelbyBit, Trip.io, and Travala.com); for entertainment purposes (virtual gifts, card packs, lotteries); to pay for online services (BitTorrent, Canva, Storm); and even for financial purposes (take out a loan at ETHLend or make investments at Moeda).





Binance Smart Chain

As of August 15, 2023, the Binance Smart Chain was processing as much as 3.9 million daily transactions; triple the amount of Ethereum's all-time high in daily transactions, but down from a record almost 16 million daily transactions reached in November of 2021.



One can also use Binance coins to invest in certain ICOs that are listed through Binance’s Launchpad program. New cryptocurrencies list on the Binance exchange, and the use of Binance provides a seamless marketplace for trading in a variety of established and new virtual tokens.



In 2017, the crypto token has garnered support from other partnerships which has helped its usage spread. It includes a partnership with Asia's premier high-end live video streaming platform, Uplive, which sells virtual gifts for BNB tokens to Uplive’s 20 million-strong user base.



Binance coin is also supported by the platform, the mobile app, and the VISA debit card of Monaco, the pioneering payments and cryptocurrency platform.




What Is the BNB Coin?
BNB Coin is a cryptocurrency that is used primarily to pay transaction and trading fees on the Binance exchange.




What Is the BNB Coin Used for?
Beyond the Binance exchange, Binance Coin has several uses, including the ability to:Make credit card paymentsPay for travel arrangements (on select websites)Buy virtual giftsProcess paymentsMake investmentsMake loans and transfersDonate to charity




What Does Convert to BNB Mean?
In the world of cryptocurrency, dust refers to any amount of coins or tokens that are so small they're often ignored. They're basically the tiny fractions left from trades.Binance allows traders to convert their dust into BNB.




What Is a BNB Market?
The BNB market simply refers to the place where BNB is bought and sold. Most purchases of BNB take place on the secondary market.




Is Binance Banned in the U.S.?
Binance is not banned in the U.S. However, on May 13, 2021, Bloomberg reported that Binance Holdings is under investigation by the Justice Department and Internal Revenue Service. According to the report, laundering and tax sleuths have probed individuals with insight into Binance's business.“We take our legal obligations very seriously and engage with regulators and law enforcement in a collaborative fashion,” Binance spokeswoman Jessica Jung said. “We have worked hard to build a robust compliance program that incorporates anti-money laundering principles and tools used by financial institutions to detect and address suspicious activity.”Binance is incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
What Is a Binary Option?  

A binary option is a financial product where the parties involved in the transaction are assigned one of two outcomes based on whether the option expires in the money. Binary options depend on the outcome of a "yes or no" proposition, hence the name "binary." Traders receive a payout if the binary option expires in the money and incur a loss if it expires out of the money.





Key Takeaways

Binary options depend on the outcome of a "yes or no" proposition.Traders receive a payout if the binary option expires in the money and incur a loss if it expires out of the money.Binary options set a fixed payout and loss amount.Binary options don't allow traders to take a position in the underlying security.Most binary options trading occurs outside the United States.


   How a Binary Option Works  

Binary options have an expiry date and/or time. At the time of expiry, the price of the underlying asset must be on the correct side of the strike price (based on the trade taken) for the trader to make a profit.



A binary option automatically exercises, meaning the gain or loss on the trade is automatically credited or debited to the trader's account when the option expires. That means the buyer of a binary option will either receive a payout or lose their entire investment in the trade—there is nothing in between. Conversely, the seller of the option will either retain the buyer's premium, or be required to make the full payout.



A binary option may be as simple as whether the share price of ABC will be above $25 on April 22, 2021, at 10:45 a.m. The trader makes a decision, either yes (it will be higher) or no (it will be lower). 



Let's say the trader thinks the price will be trading above $25 on that date and time and is willing to stake $100 on the trade. If ABC shares trade above $25 at that date and time, the trader receives a payout per the terms agreed. For example, if the payout was 70%, the binary broker credits the trader's account with $70.



If the price trades below $25 at that date and time, the trader was wrong and loses their $100 investment in the trade.


   Binary Options vs. Vanilla Options  

A vanilla American option gives the holder the right to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specified price on or before the expiration date of the option. A European option is the same, except traders can only exercise that right on the expiration date. Vanilla options, or just options, provide the buyer with potential ownership of the underlying asset. When buying these options, traders have fixed risk, but profits vary depending on how far the price of the underlying asset moves.



Binary options differ in that they don't provide the possibility of taking a position in the underlying asset. Binary options typically specify a fixed maximum payout, while the maximum risk is limited to the amount invested in the option. Movement in the underlying asset doesn't impact the payout received or loss incurred.



The profit or loss depends on whether the price of the underlying is on the correct side of the strike price. Some binary options can be closed before expiration, although this typically reduces the payout received (if the option is in the money). 



Binary options occasionally trade on platforms regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other agencies, but most binary options trading occurs outside the United States and may not be regulated. Unregulated binary options brokers don't have to meet a particular standard. Therefore, investors should be wary of the potential for fraud. Conversely, vanilla options trade on regulated U.S. exchanges and are subject to U.S. options market regulations.


   Example of a Binary Option  

Nadex is a regulated binary options exchange in the U.S. Nadex binary options are based on a "yes or no" proposition and allow traders to exit before expiry. The binary option's entry price indicates the potential profit or loss, with all options expiring worth $100 or $0.



Let's assume stock Colgate-Palmolive is currently trading at $64.75. A binary option has a strike price of $65 and expires tomorrow at 12 p.m. The trader can buy the option for $40. If the price of the stock finishes above $65, the option expires in the money and is worth $100. The trader makes $60 ($100 – $40).



If the option expires and the price of the Colgate is below $65 (out of the money), the trader loses the $40 they put into the option. The potential profit and loss, combined, always equals $100 with a Nadex binary option.



If the trader wanted to make a more significant investment, they could change the number of options traded. For example, selecting three contracts, in this case, would up the risk to $120, and increase the profit potential to $180.



Non-Nadex binary options are similar, except they typically aren't regulated in the U.S., often can't be exited before expiry, may not trade in $100 increments, and usually have fixed percentage payout for wins.
What Is Binomial Distribution?  

Binomial distribution is a statistical distribution that summarizes the probability that a value will take one of two independent values under a given set of parameters or assumptions.



The underlying assumptions of binomial distribution are that there is only one outcome for each trial, each trial has the same probability of success, and each trial is mutually exclusive or independent of one another.





Key Takeaways

Binomial distribution is a statistical probability distribution that summarizes the likelihood that a value will take one of two independent values under a given set of parameters or assumptions.The underlying assumptions of binomial distribution are that there is only one outcome for each trial, that each trial has the same probability of success, and that each trial is mutually exclusive or independent of one another.Binomial distribution is a common discrete distribution used in statistics, as opposed to a continuous distribution, such as normal distribution.


   Understanding Binomial Distribution  

To start, the “binomial” in binomial distribution means two terms—the number of successes and the number of attempts. Each is useless without the other.



Binomial distribution is a common discrete distribution used in statistics, as opposed to a continuous distribution, such as normal distribution. This is because binomial distribution only counts two states, typically represented as 1 (for a success) or 0 (for a failure), given a number of trials in the data. Binomial distribution thus represents the probability for x successes in n trials, given a success probability p for each trial.



Binomial distribution summarizes the number of trials, or observations, when each trial has the same probability of attaining one particular value. Binomial distribution determines the probability of observing a specific number of successful outcomes in a specified number of trials.






Binomial distribution is often used in social science statistics as a building block for models for dichotomous outcome variables, such as whether a Republican or Democrat will win an upcoming election, whether an individual will die within a specified period of time, etc. It also has applications in finance, banking, and insurance, among other industries.


   Analyzing Binomial Distribution  

A binomial distribution's expected value, or mean, is calculated by multiplying the number of trials (n) by the probability of successes (p), or n × p.



For example, the expected value of the number of heads in 100 trials of heads or tails is 50, or (100 × 0.5). Another common example of binomial distribution is estimating the chances of success for a free-throw shooter in basketball, where 1 = a basket made and 0 = a miss.



The binomial distribution function is calculated as:



P( x : n , p ) = n C x p x ( 1 - p ) n - x



Where:



n is the number of trials (occurrences)x is the number of successful trialsp is the probability of success in a single trialn C x is the combination of n and x. A combination is the number of ways to choose a sample of x elements from a set of n distinct objects where order does not matter, and replacements are not allowed. Note that nCx = n! / r! ( n − r ) ! ), where ! is factorial (so, 4! = 4 × 3 × 2 × 1).



The mean of the binomial distribution is np, and the variance of the binomial distribution is np (1 − p). When p = 0.5, the distribution is symmetric around the mean—such as when flipping a coin because the chances of getting heads or tails is 50%, or 0.5. When p > 0.5, the distribution curve is skewed to the left. When p < 0.5, the distribution curve is skewed to the right.



The binomial distribution is the sum of a series of multiple independent and identically distributed Bernoulli trials. In a Bernoulli trial, the experiment is said to be random and can only have two possible outcomes: success or failure.



For instance, flipping a coin is considered to be a Bernoulli trial; each trial can only take one of two values (heads or tails), each success has the same probability, and the results of one trial do not influence the results of another. Bernoulli distribution is a special case of binomial distribution where the number of trials n = 1.


   Example of Binomial Distribution  

Binomial distribution is calculated by multiplying the probability of success raised to the power of the number of successes and the probability of failure raised to the power of the difference between the number of successes and the number of trials. Then, multiply the product by the combination of the number of trials and successes.



For example, assume that a casino created a new game in which participants can place bets on the number of heads or tails in a specified number of coin flips. Assume a participant wants to place a $10 bet that there will be exactly six heads in 20 coin flips. The participant wants to calculate the probability of this occurring, and therefore, they use the calculation for binomial distribution.



The probability was calculated as (20! / (6! × (20 - 6)!)) × (0.50)(6) × (1 - 0.50)(20 - 6). Consequently, the probability of exactly six heads occurring in 20 coin flips is 0.0369, or 3.7%. The expected value was 10 heads in this case, so the participant made a poor bet. The graph below shows that the mean is 10 (the expected value), and the chances of getting six heads is on the left tail in red. You can see that there is less of a chance of six heads occurring than seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, or 13 heads.












StatCrunch Binomial Calculator



So how can this be used in finance? One example: Let’s say you’re a bank, a lender, that wants to know within three decimal places the likelihood of a particular borrower defaulting. What are the chances of so many borrowers defaulting that they would render the bank insolvent? Once you use the binomial distribution function to calculate that number, you have a better idea of how to price insurance and, ultimately, how much money to lend out and keep in reserve. 




What Is Binomial Distribution?
Binomial distribution is a statistical probability distribution that states the likelihood that a value will take one of two independent values under a given set of parameters or assumptions.




How Is Binomial Distribution Used?
This distribution pattern is used in statistics but has implications in finance and other fields. Banks may use it to estimate the likelihood of a particular borrower defaulting, how much money to lend, and the amount to keep in reserve. It’s also used in the insurance industry to determine policy pricing and assess risk.




Why Is Binomial Distribution Important?
Binomial distribution is used to figure the probability of a pass or fail outcome in a survey, or experiment replicated numerous times. There are only two potential outcomes for this type of distribution. More broadly, distribution is an important part of analyzing data sets to estimate all the potential outcomes of the data and how frequently they occur. Forecasting and understanding the success or failure of outcomes is essential to business development.


   The Bottom Line  

The binomial distribution is an important statistical distribution that describes binary outcomes (such as the flip of a coin, a yes/no answer, or an on/off condition). Understanding its characteristics and functions is important for data analysis in various contexts that involve an outcome taking one of two independent values.



It has applications in social science, finance, banking, insurance, and other areas. For instance, it can be used to estimate whether a borrower will default on a loan, whether an options contract will finish in-the-money or out-of-the-money, or whether a company will miss or beat earnings estimates.
What Is the Binomial Option Pricing Model?  

The binomial option pricing model is an options valuation method developed in 1979. The binomial option pricing model uses an iterative procedure, allowing for the specification of nodes, or points in time, during the time span between the valuation date and the option's expiration date.





Key Takeaways

The binomial option pricing model values options using an iterative approach utilizing multiple periods to value American options.With the model, there are two possible outcomes with each iteration—a move up or a move down that follow a binomial tree.The model is intuitive and is used more frequently in practice than the well-known Black-Scholes model.



The model reduces possibilities of price changes and removes the possibility for arbitrage. A simplified example of a binomial tree might look something like this:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020


   Basics of the Binomial Option Pricing Model  

With binomial option price models, the assumptions are that there are two possible outcomes—hence, the binomial part of the model. With a pricing model, the two outcomes are a move up, or a move down. The major advantage of a binomial option pricing model is that they’re mathematically simple. Yet these models can become complex in a multi-period model.



In contrast to the Black-Scholes model, which provides a numerical result based on inputs, the binomial model allows for the calculation of the asset and the option for multiple periods along with the range of possible results for each period (see below).



The advantage of this multi-period view is that the user can visualize the change in asset price from period to period and evaluate the option based on decisions made at different points in time. For a U.S-based option, which can be exercised at any time before the expiration date, the binomial model can provide insight as to when exercising the option may be advisable and when it should be held for longer periods. 



By looking at the binomial tree of values, a trader can determine in advance when a decision on an exercise may occur. If the option has a positive value, there is the possibility of exercise whereas, if the option has a value less than zero, it should be held for longer periods.


   Calculating Price with the Binomial Model  

The basic method of calculating the binomial option model is to use the same probability each period for success and failure until the option expires. However, a trader can incorporate different probabilities for each period based on new information obtained as time passes.



A binomial tree is a useful tool when pricing American options and embedded options. Its simplicity is its advantage and disadvantage at the same time. The tree is easy to model out mechanically, but the problem lies in the possible values the underlying asset can take in one period of time. In a binomial tree model, the underlying asset can only be worth exactly one of two possible values, which is not realistic, as assets can be worth any number of values within any given range.



For example, there may be a 50/50 chance that the underlying asset price can increase or decrease by 30 percent in one period. For the second period, however, the probability that the underlying asset price will increase may grow to 70/30.



For example, if an investor is evaluating an oil well, that investor is not sure what the value of that oil well is, but there is a 50/50 chance that the price will go up. If oil prices go up in Period 1 making the oil well more valuable and the market fundamentals now point to continued increases in oil prices, the probability of further appreciation in price may now be 70 percent. The binomial model allows for this flexibility; the Black-Scholes model does not.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020


   Real-World Example of Binomial Option Pricing Model  

A simplified example of a binomial tree has only one step. Assume there is a stock that is priced at $100 per share. In one month, the price of this stock will go up by $10 or go down by $10, creating this situation:



Stock price = $100Stock price in one month (up state) = $110Stock price in one month (down state) = $90



Next, assume there is a call option available on this stock that expires in one month and has a strike price of $100. In the up state, this call option is worth $10, and in the down state, it is worth $0. The binomial model can calculate what the price of the call option should be today.



For simplification purposes, assume that an investor purchases a one-half share of stock and writes or sells one call option. The total investment today is the price of half a share less the price of the option, and the possible payoffs at the end of the month are:



Cost today = $50 - option pricePortfolio value (up state) = $55 - max ($110 - $100, 0) = $45Portfolio value (down state) = $45 - max($90 - $100, 0) = $45



The portfolio payoff is equal no matter how the stock price moves. Given this outcome, assuming no arbitrage opportunities, an investor should earn the risk-free rate over the course of the month. The cost today must be equal to the payoff discounted at the risk-free rate for one month. The equation to solve is thus:



Option price = $50 - $45 x e ^ (-risk-free rate x T), where e is the mathematical constant 2.7183.



Assuming the risk-free rate is 3% per year, and T equals 0.0833 (one divided by 12), then the price of the call option today is $5.11.



The binomial option pricing model presents two advantages for option sellers over the Black-Scholes model. The first is its simplicity, which allows for fewer errors in the commercial application. The second is its iterative operation, which adjusts prices in a timely manner so as to reduce the opportunity for buyers to execute arbitrage strategies.



For example, since it provides a stream of valuations for a derivative for each node in a span of time, it is useful for valuing derivatives such as American options—which can be executed anytime between the purchase date and expiration date. It is also much simpler than other pricing models such as the Black-Scholes model.
What Is Bioremediation?  

Bioremediation is a branch of biotechnology that employs the use of living organisms, like microbes and bacteria, in the removal of contaminants, pollutants, and toxins from soil, water, and other environments.



Bioremediation may be used to clean up contaminated groundwater or environmental problems, such as oil spills.





Key Takeaways

Bioremediation is a branch of biotechnology that employs the use of living organisms, like microbes and bacteria to decontaminate affected areas.It is used in the removal of contaminants, pollutants, and toxins from soil, water, and other environments.Bioremediation is used to clean up oil spills or contaminated groundwater.Bioremediation may be done "in situ"–at the site of the contamination–or "ex situ"–away from the site. 


   How Bioremediation Works  

Bioremediation relies on stimulating the growth of certain microbes that utilize contaminants like oil, solvents, and pesticides for sources of food and energy. These microbes convert contaminants into small amounts of water, as well as harmless gases like carbon dioxide.



Bioremediation requires a combination of the right temperature, nutrients, and foods. The absence of these elements may prolong the cleanup of contaminants. Conditions that are unfavorable for bioremediation may be improved by adding “amendments” to the environment, such as molasses, vegetable oil, or simple air. These amendments optimize conditions for microbes to flourish, thereby accelerating the completion of the bioremediation process.



Bioremediation can either be done "in situ", which is at the site of the contamination itself, or "ex situ," which is a location away from the site. Ex situ bioremediation may be necessary if the climate is too cold to sustain microbe activity, or if the soil is too dense for nutrients to distribute evenly. Ex situ bioremediation may require excavating and cleaning the soil above ground, which may add significant costs to the process.



The bioremediation process may take anywhere from several months to several years to complete, depending on variables such as the size of the contaminated area, the concentration of contaminants, temperature, soil density, and whether bioremediation will occur in situ or ex situ.


   Advantages of Bioremediation  

Bioremediation offers numerous advantages over other cleanup methods. By relying solely on natural processes, it minimizes damage to ecosystems. Bioremediation often takes place underground, where amendments and microbes can be pumped in order to clean up contaminants in groundwater and soil. Consequently, bioremediation does not disrupt nearby communities as much as other cleanup methodologies.



The bioremediation process creates relatively few harmful byproducts (mainly due to the fact that contaminants and pollutants are converted into water and harmless gases like carbon dioxide). Finally, bioremediation is cheaper than most cleanup methods because it does not require substantial equipment or labor. By the end of 2018, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had brought bioremediation activities to a total of 1,507 sites.


   Example of Bioremediation  

In 1989, the Exxon Valdez oil tanker ran aground off the coast of Alaska; the tanker ended up spilling approximately 11 million gallons of oil. Around this same time, bioremediation was gaining traction as a viable option for oil cleanups. The EPA and Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM) both began testing different compounds. Initial tests regarding the effectiveness of bioremediation looked promising.



Between 1989 and 1990, more than 100,000 pounds of fertilizer was applied over more than 2000 applications to the affected areas. By mid-1992, the cleanup was considered complete, and the fertilizer had degraded nearly all the oil compounds.




What Are the Types of Bioremediation?
In general, there are three types of bioremediation:Biostimulation - Microbes are stimulated to begin the remediation process via chemicals or nutrients that activate them.Bioaugmentation - Used mainly in cleaning up soil contamination, this process adds bacteria to the surface of the affected area, where they are then allowed to grow.Intrinsic Bioremediation - Vonverts toxic materials into inert ones using the native microbiome to the affected area.




Is Composting a Form of Bioremediation?
In a sense, yes. Composting can be seen as a form of bioremediation known as biodegradation that converts food waste into potable soil. This reduces the burden on landfills.




What Is Mycoremediation?
Mycoremediation is a form of bioremediation that relies on fungi rather than bacteria or other microbes to decontaminate affected areas.
What Is Bird in Hand?  

The bird in hand is a theory that says investors prefer dividends from stock investing to potential capital gains because of the inherent uncertainty associated with capital gains. Based on the adage, "a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush," the bird-in-hand theory states that investors prefer the certainty of dividend payments to the possibility of substantially higher future capital gains.





Key Takeaways

The bird-in-hand theory says investors prefer stock dividends to potential capital gains due to the uncertainty of capital gains.The theory was developed as a counterpoint to the Modigliani-Miller dividend irrelevance theory, which maintains that investors don't care where their returns come from.Capital gains investing represents the "two in the bush" side of the adage "a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."


   Understanding Bird in Hand  

Myron Gordon and John Lintner developed the bird-in-hand theory as a counterpoint to the Modigliani-Miller dividend irrelevance theory. The dividend irrelevance theory maintains that investors are indifferent to whether their returns from holding stock arise from dividends or capital gains. Under the bird-in-hand theory, stocks with high dividend payouts are sought by investors and, consequently, command a higher market price.






Investors who subscribe to the bird-in-hand theory believe that dividends are more certain than capital gains.


   Bird in Hand vs. Capital Gains Investing  

Investing in capital gains is mainly predicated on conjecture. An investor may gain an advantage in capital gains by conducting extensive company, market, and macroeconomic research. However, ultimately, the performance of a stock hinges on a host of factors that are out of the investor's control.



For this reason, capital gains investing represents the "two in the bush" side of the adage. Investors chase capital gains because there is a possibility that those gains may be large, but it is equally possible that capital gains may be nonexistent or, worse, negative.



Broad stock market indices such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 have averaged annual returns of up to 10% over the long-term. Finding dividends that high is difficult. Even stocks in notoriously high-dividend industries, such as utilities and telecommunications, tend to top out at 5%. However, if a company has been paying a dividend yield of, for example, 5% for many years, receiving that return in a given year is more likely than earning 10% in capital gains.



During years such as 2001 and 2008, the broad stock market indices posted big losses, despite trending upward over the long term. In similar years, dividend income is more reliable and secure; hence, these more stable years are associated with the bird-in-hand theory.


   ﻿﻿Disadvantages of the Bird in Hand  

Legendary investor Warren Buffett once opined that where investing is concerned, what is comfortable is rarely profitable. Dividend investing at 5% per year provides near-guaranteed returns and security. However, over the long term, the pure dividend investor earns far less money than the pure capital gains investor. Moreover, during some years, such as the late 1970s, dividend income, while secure and comfortable, has been insufficient even to keep pace with inflation.


   ﻿Example of Bird in Hand  

As a dividend-paying stock, Coca-Cola (KO) would be a stock that fits in with a bird-in-hand theory-based investing strategy. According to Coca-Cola, the company began paying regular quarterly dividends starting in the 1920s. Further, the company has increased these payments every year since 1964.
Julie Bang / Investopedia


   What Is Bitcoin?  

Bitcoin (BTC) is a cryptocurrency, a virtual currency designed to act as money and a form of payment outside the control of any one person, group, or entity, thus removing the need for third-party involvement in financial transactions. It is rewarded to blockchain miners for the work done to verify transactions and can be purchased on several exchanges.



Bitcoin was introduced to the public in 2009 by an anonymous developer or group of developers using the name Satoshi Nakamoto.



It has since become the most well-known cryptocurrency in the world. Its popularity has inspired the development of many other cryptocurrencies. These competitors either attempt to replace it as a payment system or are used as utility or security tokens in other blockchains and emerging financial technologies.



Learn more about the cryptocurrency that started it all—the history behind it, how it works, how to get it, and what it can be used for.





Key Takeaways

Launched in 2009, Bitcoin is the world's largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization.Unlike fiat currency, Bitcoin is created, distributed, traded, and stored using a decentralized ledger system known as a blockchain.Bitcoin and its ledger are secured by proof-of-work (PoW) consensus, which is also the "mining" process that introduces new bitcoins into the system.Bitcoin can be purchased via various cryptocurrency exchanges.Bitcoin's history as a store of value has been turbulent; it has gone through several boom and bust cycles over its relatively short lifespan.As the first decentralized virtual currency to meet widespread popularity and success, Bitcoin has inspired a host of other cryptocurrencies in its wake.


   Understanding Bitcoin  

In August 2008, the domain name Bitcoin.org was registered. Today, at least, this domain is WhoisGuard Protected, meaning the identity of the person who registered it is not public information.



In October 2008, a person or group using the false name Satoshi Nakamoto announced the Cryptography Mailing List at metzdowd.com: "I've been working on a new electronic cash system that's fully peer-to-peer, with no trusted third party." This now-famous white paper published on Bitcoin.org, entitled "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System," would become the Magna Carta for how Bitcoin operates today.



On Jan. 3, 2009, the first Bitcoin block was mined—Block 0. This is also known as the "genesis block" and contains the text: "The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks," perhaps proof that the block was mined on or after that date, and maybe also as relevant political commentary.



Bitcoin rewards are halved every 210,000 blocks. For example, the block reward was 50 new bitcoins in 2009. On May 11, 2020, the third halving occurred, bringing the reward for each block discovery down to 6.25 bitcoins.



One bitcoin is divisible to eight decimal places (100 millionths of one bitcoin), and this smallest unit is referred to as a satoshi. If necessary, and if the participating miners accept the change, Bitcoin could eventually be made divisible to even more decimal places.



Bitcoin, as a form of digital currency, isn't too complicated to understand. For example, if you own a bitcoin, you can use your cryptocurrency wallet to send smaller portions of that bitcoin as payment for goods or services. However, it becomes very complex when you try to understand how it works.






On Jan. 8, 2009, the first version of the Bitcoin software was announced to the Cryptography Mailing List, and on Jan. 9, 2009, Block 1 was mined, and Bitcoin mining commenced in earnest.


   Bitcoin's Blockchain Technology  

Cryptocurrencies are part of a blockchain and the network required to power it. A blockchain is a distributed ledger, a shared database that stores data. Data within the blockchain is secured by encryption methods.



When a transaction takes place on the blockchain, information from the previous block is copied to a new block with the new data, encrypted, and the transaction is verified by validators—called miners—in the network. When a transaction is verified, a new block is opened, and a Bitcoin is created and given as a reward to the miner(s) who verified the data within the block—they are then free to use it, hold it, or sell it.



Bitcoin uses the SHA-256 hashing algorithm to encrypt the data stored in the blocks on the blockchain. Simply put, transaction data stored in a block is encrypted into a 256-bit hexadecimal number. That number contains all of the transaction data and information linked to the blocks before that block.






Data linked between blocks is what led to the ledger being called a blockchain.



Transactions are placed into a queue to be validated by miners within the network. Miners in the Bitcoin blockchain network all attempt to verify the same transaction simultaneously. The mining software and hardware work to solve the nonce, a four-byte number included in the block header that miners are attempting to solve.



The block header is hashed, or randomly regenerated by a miner repeatedly until it meets a target number specified by the blockchain. The block header is "solved," and a new block is created for more transactions to be encrypted and verified.


   How to Mine Bitcoin  

A variety of hardware and software can be used to mine Bitcoin. When Bitcoin was first released, it was possible to mine it competitively on a personal computer; however, as it became more popular, more miners joined the network, which lowered the chances of being the one to solve the hash. You can still use your personal computer as a miner if it has newer hardware, but the chances of solving a hash individually are minuscule.



This is because you're competing with a network of miners that generate around 220 quintillion hashes (220 exa hashes) per second. Machines, called Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), have been built specifically for mining—can generate around 255 trillion hashes per second. In contrast, a computer with the latest hardware hashes around 100 mega hashes per second (100 million).



To successfully become a Bitcoin miner, you have several options. You can use your existing personal computer to use mining software compatible with Bitcoin and join a mining pool. Mining pools are groups of miners that combine their computational power to compete with the large ASIC mining farms.






You increase your chances of being rewarded by joining a pool, but rewards are significantly decreased because they are shared.



If you have the financial means, you could also purchase an ASIC miner. You can generally find a new one for around $20,000, but used ones are also sold by miners as they upgrade their systems. There are some significant costs such as electricity and cooling to consider if you purchase one or more ASICs.



There are several mining programs to choose from and many pools you can join. Two of the most well-known programs are CGMiner and BFGMiner. When choosing a pool, it's important to make sure you find out how they pay out rewards, what any fees might be, and read some mining pool reviews.


   How Do You Buy Bitcoin?  

If you don't want to mine bitcoin, it can be bought using a cryptocurrency exchange. Most people will not be able to purchase an entire BTC because of its price, but you can buy portions of BTC on these exchanges in fiat currency like U.S. dollars. For example, you can buy bitcoin on Coinbase by creating an account and funding it. You can fund your account using your bank account, credit card, or debit card. The following video explains more about buying bitcoin.







How to Buy Bitcoin


   How Is Bitcoin Used?  

Bitcoin was initially designed and released as a peer-to-peer payment method. However, its use cases are growing due to its increasing value and competition from other blockchains and cryptocurrencies.


  Payment  

To use your Bitcoin, you need to have a cryptocurrency wallet. Wallets hold the private keys to the bitcoin you own, which need to be entered when you're conducting a transaction. Bitcoin is accepted as a means of payment for goods and services at many merchants, retailers, and stores.



Brick-and-mortar stores that accept cryptocurrencies will generally display a sign that says “Bitcoin Accepted Here”; the transactions can be handled with the requisite hardware terminal or wallet address through QR codes and touchscreen apps. An online business can easily accept Bitcoin by adding this payment option to its other online payment options: credit cards, PayPal, etc.






El Salvador became the first country to officially adopt Bitcoin as legal tender in June 2021.


  Investing and Speculating  

Investors and speculators became interested in Bitcoin as it grew in popularity. Between 2009 and 2017, cryptocurrency exchanges emerged that facilitated bitcoin sales and purchases. Prices began to rise, and demand slowly grew until 2017, when its price broke $1,000. Many people believed Bitcoin prices would keep climbing and began buying them to hold. Traders began using cryptocurrency exchanges to make short-term trades, and the market took off.



In 2022, Bitcoin's price came crashing down. In March 2022, it was as high as $47,454 and as of November 2022, it is $15,731. The drop in Bitcoin is partly due to larger market turmoil related to inflation, rising interest rates, supply chain issues from Covid, and the war in Ukraine. Additionally, some important tokens have crashed in the crypto world, as well as one of the important exchanges, which has raised concerns about the stability of digital currencies.


   Risks of Investing in Bitcoin  

Speculative investors have been drawn to Bitcoin after its rapid price appreciation in recent years. Bitcoin had a price of $7,167.52 on Dec. 31, 2019, and a year later, it had appreciated more than 300% to $28,984.98. It continued to surge in the first half of 2021, trading at a record high of $68,990 in November 2021—it then fell over the next few months to hover around $40,000. As mentioned above, in early 2022, the price started to drop and has continued to do so for most of 2022.






Bitcoin's all-time high price is $68,990, reached in November 2021.



Thus, many people purchase Bitcoin for its investment value rather than its ability to act as a medium of exchange. However, the lack of guaranteed value and its digital nature means its purchase and use carry several inherent risks. For example, many investor alerts have been issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) regarding Bitcoin investing.



Regulatory risk: The lack of uniform regulations about Bitcoin (and other virtual currencies) raises questions over their longevity, liquidity, and universality.
Security risk: Most individuals who own and use Bitcoin have not acquired their tokens through mining operations. Rather, they buy and sell Bitcoin and other digital currencies on popular online markets, known as cryptocurrency exchanges. Bitcoin exchanges are entirely digital and—as with any virtual system—are at risk from hackers, malware, and operational glitches.
Insurance risk: Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies are not insured through the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Some exchanges provide insurance through third parties. In 2019, prime dealer and trading platform SFOX announced it would be able to offer Bitcoin investors FDIC insurance, but only for the portion of transactions involving cash.
Fraud risk: Even with the security measures inherent within a blockchain, there are still opportunities for fraudulent activity. For instance, in July 2013, the SEC brought legal action against an operator of a Bitcoin-related Ponzi scheme.
Market risk: As with any investment, Bitcoin values can fluctuate. Indeed, the value of the currency has seen wild swings in price over its short existence. Subject to high volume buying and selling on exchanges, it is highly sensitive to any newsworthy events. According to the CFPB, the price of Bitcoin fell by 61% in a single day in 2013, while the one-day price drop record in 2014 was as big as 80%.


   Regulating Bitcoin  

Like with any new technology, the attempts at regulating Bitcoin have been difficult. The current Biden administration seeks to impose regulations around Bitcoin, but at the same time walks a tightrope in trying not to throttle a growing and economically beneficial industry.



Biden has stated he will seek to prevent the illegal use of Bitcoin but also support its development. The U.S. has particularly been focused on regulating crypto and its criminal usage overseas, such as sanctioning cryptocurrency exchanges and individual cryptocurrency wallets and recovering crypto payments made to criminals. There have also been calls for the U.S. to develop a central bank digital currency (CBDC) to appropriately direct these sanctions.



As the Bitcoin and cryptocurrency world is emerging, so will the regulation, which will see many changes and laws over time.




How Long Does It Take to Mine One Bitcoin?
It takes an average of 10 minutes for the mining network to validate a block and create the reward. The Bitcoin reward is 6.25 BTC per block. This works out to be about 100 seconds for 1 BTC to be mined.




Is Bitcoin a Good Investment?
Bitcoin has a short investing history filled with very volatile prices. Whether it is a good investment depends on your financial profile, investing portfolio, risk tolerance, and investing goals. You should always consult a financial professional for advice before investing in cryptocurrency to ensure it is right for your circumstances.




How Does Bitcoin Make Money?
The Bitcoin network of miners makes money from Bitcoin by successfully validating blocks and being rewarded. Bitcoins are exchangeable for fiat currency via cryptocurrency exchanges and can be used to make purchases from merchants and retailers that accept them. Investors and speculators can make money from buying and selling bitcoins.




How Much Is $1 Bitcoin in U.S. Dollars?
As of Nov. 22, 2022, $1 Bitcoin is equal to $15,766 U.S. dollars.




How Many Bitcoins Are Left?
The total number of Bitcoins in existence is 19,214,106.25. The number of Bitcoins left to be mined is 1,785,893.8 as of Nov. 22, 2022.


   The Bottom Line  

Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency and is intended to be used as a form of payment outside of legal tender. Since its introduction in 2009, Bitcoin's popularity has surged and its uses expanded, resulting in the creation of many new competitor cryptocurrencies.



Though the process of generating Bitcoin is complex, investing in it is more straightforward. Investors and speculators can buy and sell Bitcoin on crypto exchanges. As with any investment, particularly one as new and volatile as Bitcoin, investors should carefully consider if Bitcoin is the right investment for them.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
Bitcoin Cash (BCH) is a cryptocurrency that was created and launched to bring decentralization back to cryptocurrency. It is the result of a 2017 Bitcoin "hard fork," which occurs when an existing blockchain splits into two. Bitcoin Cash allows a greater number of transactions in a single block than Bitcoin, which should lower fees and transaction times. Learn more about Bitcoin Cash, how it differs from Bitcoin, where it's available, and if the project has been successful.





Key Takeaways


Bitcoin Cash is the result of a Bitcoin hard fork that happened in August 2017.
Bitcoin Cash was created to allow more transactions in a single block, theoretically decreasing the fees and transaction times.
Despite their philosophical differences, Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin share several technical similarities: They use the same consensus mechanism and have capped their supply at 21 million coins.
Bitcoin Cash itself underwent a fork in November 2018 and split into Bitcoin Cash ABC and Bitcoin Cash SV (Satoshi Vision). In 2021, Bitcoin Cash ABC changed its name to eCash.
Bitcoin Cash continues to trade—at a fraction of Bitcoin's price—but has yet to achieve widespread consumer acceptance as a form of payment.



   What Is Bitcoin Cash?  

Bitcoin Cash is a cryptocurrency, created from a hard fork from the Bitcoin blockchain in 2017. A hard fork is when a blockchain splits, with no compatibility between the two forks. This is a radical change to a network's protocol that makes previously invalid blocks and transactions valid, or vice versa. A hard fork requires all nodes or users to upgrade to the latest version of the protocol software.



Bitcoin Cash is designed to be used as a cheap payment system, much in the way Bitcoin was designed to be originally. Transactions fees are generally less than $.01, and transaction confirmation times are significantly less than Bitcoin's, generally within seconds.



Bitcoin Cash was created and is maintained by an active community of developers. These developers still see Bitcoin Cash as a necessary alternative to Bitcoin, because in their view, Bitcoin has become more of an investment instrument than a payment system. It was designed as a peer-to-peer payment system that removes regulatory authorities and other third parties from financial transactions.



Bitcoin Cash operates on Bitcoin Cash Node, which is an ecosystem that enables users to transact in Bitcoin Cash. Bitcoin Cash Node is the blockchain for Bitcoin Cash, and can be thought of as the virtual machine that runs the network, powering transactions.


   Understanding Bitcoin Cash  

Bitcoin Cash was created in 2017 when developers disagreed on the route Bitcoin should take to address emerging issues with the blockchain. Transaction fees, paid to the miners for doing the work as an incentive for more people to become miners, had continued to rise between 2009 and 2016. In December 2017, fees had risen to nearly $.03 per transaction. By June 2017, fees hit $5.56 before dropping again in July and fluctuating through the rest of the year to skyrocket to $54.64 in December of that year.



Typically, a hard fork takes place when groups of miners and developers can't agree on updates to the software governing a particular digital token. As a result, one group continues to operate under the same rules, while the other branches off and generates a new blockchain with an updated software setup. In the process, a second digital currency is generated.






BCH's creators wanted to increase the size of the blocks within the blockchain so that more transactions could be stored—in theory, more transactions per block would decrease transaction fees. Other developers did not agree that this was the right approach, so the BCH developers created a fork from the Bitcoin blockchain.



Bitcoin's blockchain had scalability issues because it could not handle the increased number of transactions. The confirmation time and fees for a transaction on Bitcoin’s blockchain surged. This was mainly due to the 1MB block size limitation for Bitcoin. Transactions queued up, waiting for confirmation, because blocks could not handle the increase in size for transactions.



Bitcoin Cash itself experienced a few forks along the way. Bitcoin Satoshi Vision (BSV) forked from Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Cash became Bitcoin Cash ABC (BCHA) in 2018. In 2021, it changed name to eCash.


   How Is Bitcoin Cash Different From Bitcoin?  

Bitcoin Cash proposed to resolve the situation by increasing the size of blocks to between 8 MB and 32 MB, enabling mor transactions to be processed per block. The average number of transactions per block on Bitcoin at the time Bitcoin Cash was proposed was between 1,000 and 1,500.



Bitcoin Cash also differs from bitcoin in another respect, as it does not incorporate Segregated Witness (SegWit), another solution proposed to accommodate more transactions per block. SegWit retains only information or the metadata relating to a transaction in a block. Typically, all details pertaining to a transaction are stored in a block. 



Bitcoin Cash also has increased the size of the blocks on the blockchain throughout its history—in 2018, its block size was 8MB. In June 2022, the block size increased again to 32MB.


   Is Bitcoin Cash Still Available?  

Yes, Bitcoin is available for trading. Bitcoin Cash had a little over 19.4 million coins in circulation and stood at No. 28 in crypto market capitalization at $2.2 billion in late May 2023. It was trading for around $114.52 at that time, while Bitcoin SV ranks 65th with a market cap slightly over $655 million and was trading at $33.99. It has a similar number of coins in circulation.


   Has Bitcoin Cash Been Successful?  

Bitcoin Cash ultimately was created to raise awareness that BCH must remain permissionless and affordable so it could be used as the "best money in the world," according to the Bitcoin Cash website. In the shorter term, it's been focused on providing a fast, reliable, low-fee network, as well as "establishing a professional mining node that listens to feedback and delivers measurable improvements."



However, despite Bitcoin Cash's bigger block size and transaction capacity aimed at helping it become accepted as a form of payment, the cryptocurrency so far has experienced volatility and has not yet seen widespread consumer adoption.




Why Is Bitcoin Cash Cheaper Than Bitcoin?
Bitcoin Cash as of early June 2023 is trading at a fraction of the price of Bitcoin, but its volume is also much lower because it's not as in demand in the cryptocurrency market. Bitcoin Cash has cheaper transfer fees, so making transactions in BCH saves traders more money than using BTC. But in either token's case, it’s important to remember that Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash only have value because people think they do.




How Is Bitcoin Cash Different From Bitcoin?
Bitcoin Cash was created to allow more transactions in a single block, theoretically decreasing fees and transaction times. But in spite of the philosophical differences that led to the hard fork, Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin share several technical similarities. They use the same consensus mechanism and have capped their supply at 21 million coins.




Where Can You Buy Bitcoin Cash?
Most major cryptocurrency exchanges offer BCH, once you set up a trading account and make an initial deposit to cover the purchase.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info.
What Is Bitcoin Mining?  

Bitcoin mining is the process of validating the information in a blockchain block by generating a cryptographic solution that matches specific criteria. When a correct solution is reached, a reward in the form of bitcoin and fees for the work done is given to the miner who reached the solution first.



Over time, the reward for mining Bitcoin is reduced. This reward process continues until there are 21 million bitcoin circulating. Once that number is reached, the bitcoin reward will cease, and Bitcoin miners will be rewarded through fees paid for the work done.





Key Takeaways

Validating transaction information and maintaining the integrity of the blockchain is mining's purpose, while the bitcoin reward is the incentive to mine.Bitcoin mining is necessary to maintain the ledger of transactions upon which Bitcoin is based.Miners have become very sophisticated over the past several years, using complex machinery to speed up mining operations.Bitcoin mining has generated controversy because it is not considered environmentally friendly.












investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How Does Bitcoin Mining Work?  

Here's a simplified example to explain the process. Say you ask friends to guess a number between 1 and 100. Your friends don’t have to guess the exact number; they just have to be the first to guess a number less than or equal to your number. If you are thinking of the number 19 and a friend comes up with 21, another 55, and yet another 83, they lose because they all guessed more than 19. But if you have three friends left, and the next one guesses 16, they win, and the others don't get a chance to guess. The one that guessed 16 was the first to guess a number less than or equal to 19.



In this case, the number you chose, 19, represents the target hash the Bitcoin network creates for a block, and the random guesses from your friends are the guesses from the miners.


  The Hash  

At the heart of Bitcoin mining is the hash. The hash is a 64-digit hexadecimal number that is the result of sending the information contained in a block through the SHA256 hashing algorithm. This part of the process takes little time to complete—in fact, you can generate a hash in less than one second, pasting some content into an online SHA256 hash generator. This is the encryption method used by Bitcoin to create a block hash. However, decrypting that hash back to the content you pasted is the difficult part: a 64-digit hash can take centuries to decode with modern hardware.



A hash might look like this (this is the previous paragraph run through a hash generator). If you change one value in that content, like switching one "t" to an "a," the hash changes:



a54f83a5db7371eeefa2287a0ede750ac623e49a8ba29f248eb785fe0a678559



Here is the same paragraph, but the first word is misspelled as "Aa" instead of "At":



fbfa33ff980d1492b3a9275a1eb945d89bd6b699ca19c3c470021b8f253654af



This is the number called the block hash, which is used in the next block's header as part of the information run through encryption. Each block uses the previous block's hash, which acts to chain them together, thus creating the term "blockchain."


  Target Hash  

The target hash, used to determine mining difficulty, is the number miners are trying to solve for when they mine. This number is a hash generated by the network converted from hexadecimal to decimal form.



So, a block hash might look like this (block 786,729):



00000000000000000005a849c28eb24b8a5e04fcecc1ccb3eb2998e4730a456e



And the target hash looked like this (with a lot more zeros in front and behind):



0x1705c739



So, miners needed to generate a number equal to or less than the above number. It might look simple to randomly guess a number less than this, but because of the encryption, it isn't. Block 786,729 used more than two billion nonces from one mining pool.


  Mining  

Bitcoin mining requires the mining program to generate a random hash and append another number to it called the nonce, or "number used once." When a miner begins, it always starts this number at zero. The nonce changes by one every attempt—first, it's 0, then 1, 2, 3, and so on. If the hash and nonce generated by the miner are more than the target hash set by the network, the attempt fails, and the miner tries again.



Every miner on the network does this until a hash and nonce combination is created that is less than or equal to the target hash. The first to reach that target receives the reward and fees, and a new block is opened. Once that block fills up with information (about one megabyte), it is closed, encrypted, and mined.



The Bitcoin network is made up of thousands of devices that mine 24 hours per day. Because the mining reward goes to the first to solve the problem, they are all competing. This competition led miners to create pools to gain an advantage over other miners because they needed more computational power to increase their chances of winning.






The Bitcoin network mining rate fluctauted, but it hovers between 330 and 360 exa-hashes per second—that's 360 followed by 18 zeros. If it takes roughly 10 minutes for a block to be mined, that's about 216,000 exa-hashes (216 followed by 21 zeros) to open a new block.


  Proof-of-Work  

The mining process is what you hear called proof-of-work (PoW)—it takes a lot of energy and computational power to reach the goal of less than or equal to a target hash. The work done is viewed as the validation proof needed, so it's called proof-of-work.


  Confirmation  

Each block contains the hash of the previous block—so when the next block's hash is generated, the previous block's hash is included. Remember that if even one character changes, the hash changes, so the hash of each following block will change. This secures the blockchain.



However, the block you closed and received a reward for isn't yet confirmed. The block isn't confirmed until five blocks later when it has gone through that many validations. With that said, it is possible to alter information in a block before reaching six validations, but it is highly unlikely because the network must be controlled by someone attempting to change information for it to work.






Bitcoin halved its mining reward—from 12.5 to 6.25—for the third time on May 11, 2020.


  Rewards  

The reward for successfully validating a block is bitcoin. In 2009, you'd receive 50 bitcoin for mining a block. But the block reward is halved every 210,000 blocks (or roughly every four years), so in 2013, the reward amount declined to 25, and in 2016, it became 12.5. In Bitcoin's most recent halving event, the reward was changed to 6.25.



Another incentive for Bitcoin miners to participate in the process is transaction fees. In addition to rewards, miners also receive fees from any transactions contained in that block of transactions. When Bitcoin reaches its planned limit of 21 million (expected around 2140), miners will be rewarded with fees for processing transactions that network users will pay. These fees ensure that miners still have the incentive to mine and keep the network going. The idea is that competition for these fees will cause them to remain low after halving events are finished.












  Difficulty  

Mining difficulty is how much work it takes to generate a number less than the target hash. Mining difficulty changes every 2,016 blocks or approximately every two weeks. The next difficulty level depends on how efficient miners were in the preceding cycle.



It is also affected by the number of new miners that have joined Bitcoin's network because it increases the hash rate or the amount of computing power deployed to mine the cryptocurrency. The more miners there are competing for a solution, the more difficult the problem will become. If computational power is taken off the network, the difficulty adjusts downward to make mining easier.  



The difficulty level for mining in April 2023 was 48.7 trillion. That is, the chances of a computer producing a hash below the target is 1 in 48.7 trillion. To put that in perspective, you are about 166,781 times more likely to win the Powerball jackpot with a single lottery ticket than you are to pick the correct hash on a single try.


   What Are the Economics of Mining Bitcoin?  

Bitcoin mining is a business venture. Profits generated from its output—bitcoin—depend on the investment made into its inputs.



There are three main costs of Bitcoin mining:



Electricity: This is the power that runs your mining systems 24/7. It can run up to a substantial bill. When you consider that the process consumes as much electricity as certain countries do, the costs can be pretty high. It's also important to consider the costs to cool the area your mining system is in. They produce a lot of heat while mining—the more you have, the more heat they produce. These rigs need to be cooled, so the air conditioning you need to keep them that way can become very expensive.
Mining systems: Contrary to the popular narrative, desktop computers and regular gaming systems can be used to mine by joining a mining pool. But the returns are limited because most pools split the rewards based on the amount of work each miner contributes. These systems cannot compete with the ASIC mining machines, but it is possible to come out a few hundred dollars ahead after accounting for the energy used. If you want to be competitive, you'll need to buy several ASIC miners and join a pool—which can set you back between $4,000 to $12,000 per rig. The faster they can mine, the more you'll pay.
Network infrastructure: Network speeds do not significantly affect the Bitcoin mining process, but latency does. Latency is the amount of time it takes to communicate with the network. Also, mining farms require multiple internal connections to connect each mining rig to a main router or server with a connection to the internet. However, if you're using your gaming rig to mine and join a pool, you shouldn't need any extra bandwidth—just low latency to the pool you joined.



The total costs for these three inputs should be less than the output—in this case, bitcoin's price—for you to generate profits from your venture. Considering the fluctuating—and often rising—price of bitcoin, the idea of minting your own cryptocurrency might sound like an attractive proposition.



But given the economic difficulties of Bitcoin mining, you may have to resign yourself to accepting lower profits and a longer time to break even after purchasing equipment to participate in the lottery that Bitcoin has become.






FoundyUSA and AntPool are two popular mining pools that hold more than 55% of the world's Bitcoin mining power.


   History of Bitcoin Mining  

Two developments have contributed to the evolution and composition of Bitcoin mining as it is today. First, custom manufacturing of mining Bitcoin machines acted to centralize the network. Because Bitcoin mining is essentially guesswork, arriving at the right answer before another miner has almost everything to do with how fast your computer can produce hashes.



In the early days of Bitcoin, desktop computers with ordinary CPUs dominated Bitcoin mining. But they began taking a long time to discover transactions on the cryptocurrency's network as the algorithm's difficulty level increased with time. According to some estimates, it would have taken "several hundred thousand years on average" using CPUs to find a valid block at the early 2015 difficulty level.


  GPU Mining  

Over time, miners realized that graphics cards, also known as graphics processing units (GPUs), were more effective and faster at mining. But they consumed a lot of power and weren't designed for heavy mining. Eventually, GPUs fell behind and weren't fast enough to compete, and manufacturers began limiting their mining abilities.



Field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), a type of GPU, were an improvement, but they suffered from the same drawbacks GPUs did.


  ASIC Mining  

Nowadays, miners use custom mining machines, called application-specific integrated circuit miners (ASIC), that are equipped with specialized chips for faster and more efficient bitcoin mining. They cost anywhere from several hundred to tens of thousands of dollars. Today, bitcoin mining is so competitive that it can only be done profitably with the most up-to-date ASICs. But even with the newest unit at your disposal, one is rarely enough to compete with mining pools.


   Issues With Bitcoin Mining  

Between one in 16 trillion odds, scaling difficulty levels, and the massive network of users verifying transactions, one block of transactions is verified roughly every 10 minutes. But it's important to remember that 10 minutes is a goal, not a rule.


  Speed  

The Bitcoin network can currently process between three and six transactions per second, with transactions logged in the blockchain about every 10 minutes. By comparison, Visa can process somewhere around 65,000 transactions per second. Second-layer solutions and upgrades to the Bitcoin blockchain have attempted to address speed issues, but modern banking networks and other blockchains still dwarf the number of transactions the Bitcoin network can handle.


  Scalability  

This issue at the heart of the Bitcoin protocol is known as scaling. Though Bitcoin miners generally agree that something must be done to address scaling, there is less consensus about how to do it.



Bitcoin has been adjusted by introducing upgrades and accepting input from layers that do much of the work off-chain, but it still has issues with scalability.


  Energy Use  

For most of Bitcoin's short history, its mining process has remained an energy-intensive one. In the decade after it was launched, Bitcoin mining was concentrated in China, a country that relies on fossil fuels like coal to produce a majority of its electricity. Not surprisingly, Bitcoin mining's astronomical energy costs have drawn the attention of climate change activists. According to some estimates, the cryptocurrency's mining process consumes as much electricity as entire countries.





Bitcoin Mining Electricity Consumption



But Bitcoin proponents have released studies that claim that the cryptocurrency is powered largely by renewable energy sources. One thing to remember about these studies is that they are based on conjectures and self-reported data from mining pools. This makes it difficult to be certain because the information is scarce and opaque.




What Is Bitcoin Mining?
Bitcoin mining is the process that validates Bitcoin transactions. It consists of mining systems competing with each other to solve a cryptographic problem and awards bitcoin.




What Purpose Does Bitcoin Mining Serve?
Bitcoin mining serves two purposes: It confirms transactions on the cryptocurrency’s network and secures it.




What Are the Main Costs Associated with Bitcoin Mining?
The three biggest costs for Bitcoin mining are electricity, network infrastructure, and mining infrastructure.




Should You Mine Bitcoin?
Bitcoin mining is a costly hobby without guaranteed results. To be competitive, you will need to invest in several expensive machines, run them 24/7, and pay high electricity bills. Even then, there is no guarantee that you will earn any bitcoin.




Is Bitcoin Mining Green?
Bitcoin mining's energy usage has been criticized by climate activists as proof that the cryptocurrency is not environmentally friendly. The Bitcoin mining process is estimated to consume as much electricity as entire countries. As the world pivots toward renewable energy sources, bitcoin mining is expected to become greener.


   The Bottom Line  

Bitcoin mining is an energy-intensive process with customized mining systems that compete to solve a cryptographic problem. The Bitcoin mining process also confirms transactions on the cryptocurrency's network and makes them trustworthy. As an incentive to participate in the process, bitcoin is rewarded to those that win the competition.



Though individual miners using desktop systems played a role during the cryptocurrency's early days, the Bitcoin mining ecosystem is dominated by large mining companies that run mining pools spread across many geographies. Bitcoin mining is also controversial because it uses astronomical amounts of energy.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own bitcoin.
What Is the Bitcoin Misery Index (BMI)?  

The Bitcoin Misery Index (BMI) is a measurement of Bitcoin's price action. It ranges from 0 to 100 and uses contrarian economic indicators—in which opportunities move opposite of conventional indicators. It incorporates several different market factors such as win ratios and volatility.





Key Takeaways

The Bitcoin Misery Index (BMI) was created in 2018 by Tom Lee, a co-founder of Fundstrat Global Advisors.The index incorporates the percentage of winning trades to total trades and volatility; it is calculated on a 100 point scale where zero indicates maximum misery.The index is considered "at misery" when the value is below 27. As a contrarian index, the closer the index is to zero, the louder the signal is to "buy."


   Understanding the Bitcoin Misery Index (BMI)  

The BMI was created in 2018 by Tom Lee, a co-founder of Fundstrat Global Advisors. The index incorporates the percentage of winning trades to total trades and volatility. It shows a value of zero to 100. The index indicates "misery" when the value is below 27, which means that traders are not happy with the results of their trades. As a contrarian index, the closer the index is to zero, the louder the signal to "buy" becomes. It is a "buy" signal because traders believe prices may not go any lower and that profitable trades are on the horizon.


  Price History  

Interest in Bitcoin (BTC) increased dramatically in 2016, with BTC price rising 123% by year's end. By 2017, investors were pouring into BTC, pushing the price to just under $20,000 in December. Investors who expected Bitcoin prices to continue their meteoric rise after December 2017 were met instead by a decline of over 50%.






Bitcoin's popularity continued to grow through 2018, 2019, and 2020. In 2021, its price skyrocketed to $69,000 in November before plummeting to around $35,000 in January 2022.


  Threats to Bitcoin Profitability  

As interest in Bitcoin has risen, so too have threats to its stability. As a result, several countries have banned or created substantial regulations targeting cryptocurrencies. For example, China banned cryptocurrency over concerns of financial stability, money laundering, and fraud.



Cryptocurrency investors also have to deal with the possibility that their digital assets can be stolen if stored in "hot wallets"—digital wallets that are actively connected to cryptocurrency exchanges via the Internet. Several exchanges have been hacked, such as Mt. Gox, which lost over $450 million, and Coincheck, which lost over $500 million.



The uncertainty about regulatory and security has given rise to a new misery index: the BMI.












Fundstrat


   Goals of the Bitcoin Misery Index  

According to Fundstrat Insight, the BMI is a proxy for investor sentiments about Bitcoin's price action. It indicates whether traders and investors are feeling happy (100–67), neutral (66–28), or miserable (27–0) about prices.



Cryptocurrency trading and investing expose you to several types of risk, including transaction risk, interest rate risk, leverage risk, counterparty risk, and country risk. Unlike trading U.S. dollars or euros, you have to contend with other risks created by assets based on a decentralized ledger. Without a central bank to act as a guarantor, you may have little recourse or protection if something goes awry with a cryptocurrency.



The highly risky and speculative nature of Bitcoin investing favors those who can quickly analyze shifts in prices and understand the impact of news announcements, and place buy or sell trades accordingly.






Indexes create a tendency in investors to self-fulfill prophecies. If, as a group, investors believe when an index hits a specific level it signals an opportunity to buy, then they will wait until it hits that level to start buying.



While indexes are sometimes helpful as early warning indicators of market sentiment, they are backward-looking measures. The BMI cannot predict whether hackers will attack a cryptocurrency exchange; It won't be able to predict whether the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will approve a new U.S.-based exchange or Bitcoin-backed security. It will only tell you what other investors and traders felt at any given moment in the past.




What Is the Bitcoin 200-Day Moving Average?
The 200-day moving average is a gauge of an asset's long-term performance. For Bitcoin it measures a 200-day moving average price.




Did Bitcoin Lose Value?
Bitcoin is a volatile asset. Its value changes daily; it reached a record price of $69,000 in late 2021, so it has dropped in value since then. However, it has increased in value over its lifetime many times over.




How Many Bitcoins Are Left?
As of February 2022, there are roughly 2 million Bitcoins left to be mined.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is a Cryptocurrency Wallet?  

A cryptocurrency wallet is an application that functions as a wallet for your cryptocurrency. It is called a wallet because it is used similarly to a wallet you put cash and cards in. Instead of holding these physical items, it stores the passkeys you use to sign for your cryptocurrency transactions and provides the interface that lets you access your crypto.



Modern cryptocurrency wallets make the blockchain accessible to everyone. When cryptocurrency was first introduced, sending cryptocurrency was a manual task that required entering long keys. Today, the software does most of it for you.



The first wallet was that of Bitcoin's developer, Satoshi Nakamoto. The second wallet belonged to Hal Finney, who corresponded with Nakamoto and reportedly was the first to run the Bitcoin client software wallet. Nakamoto sent him 10 bitcoin as a test, and the cryptocurrency craze began.





Key Takeaways:

A cryptocurrency wallet is a device or program that stores your cryptocurrency keys and allows you to access your coins.Wallets contain a public key (the wallet address) and your private keys needed to sign cryptocurrency transactions. Anyone who knows the private key can control the coins associated with that address.There are several different types of wallets, each with its own features and levels of security.Many cryptocurrency wallets can be used to store key for different cryptocurrencies.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Cryptocurrency Wallets  

Cryptocurrency wallets are software applications on computers or mobile devices such as phones or tablets. They use an internet connection to access the blockchain network for the cryptocurrency you're using.



Cryptocurrencies are not "stored" anywhere—they are bits of data stored in a database. These bits of data are scattered all over the database; the wallet finds all of the bits associated with your public address and sums up the amount for you in the app's interface.



Sending and receiving cryptocurrency is very easy using these applications. You can send or receive cryptocurrency from your wallet using various methods. Typically, you enter the recipient's wallet address, choose an amount to send, sign the transaction using your private key, add an amount to pay the transaction fee, and send it.






Many wallets have integrated QR codes and near-field scanner technology that allows you to scan a code, select an amount, enter your key, select the transaction fee, and click send.



Receiving is even easier—the sender enters your address and goes through the same routine. You accept the payment, and the transaction is done.


   Cryptocurrency Wallet Types  

The are two main types of wallets, custodial and noncustodial. Custodial wallets are hosted by a third party that stores your keys for you. This could be a company that provides enterprise-level data security systems businesses use to preserve and secure data. Some cryptocurrency exchanges offer custodial wallets for their customers. Noncustodial wallets are wallets in which you take responsibility for securing your keys. This is the type that most cryptocurrency wallets on devices are.



There are two subcategories of wallets, hot and cold. A hot wallet has a connection to the internet or to a device that has a connection, and a cold wallet has no connection. Lastly, there are three subcategories of wallets—software, hardware, and paper. Each of these types is considered either a hot or cold wallet.



So, you can have a noncustodial software hot wallet, a noncustodial hardware cold or hot wallet, or a custodial hardware cold wallet. These are the most common types, but you may also encounter other combinations.


  Software Wallets  

Software wallets include applications for desktops and mobile devices. These wallets are installed on a desktop or laptop computer and can access your cryptocurrency, make transactions, display your balance, and much more. Some software wallets also include additional functionality, such as exchange integration if you're using a wallet designed by a cryptocurrency exchange.



Many mobile wallets can facilitate quick payments in physical stores through near-field communication (NFC) or by scanning a QR code. Mobile wallets tend to be compatible with iOS or Android devices. Trezor, Electrum, and Mycelium are examples of wallets that you can use. Software wallets are generally hot wallets.






You use private keys to access your cryptocurrency. Anyone who has your private key can access your coins.


  Hardware Wallets  

Hardware wallets are the most popular type of wallet because you can store your private keys and remove them from your device. These devices resemble a USB drive, and modern hardware wallets have several features.



You can make a cryptocurrency transaction on your computer or device by plugging in the hardware wallet. Most of them can sign cryptocurrency transactions automatically without requiring you to enter the key, circumventing a hacker's ability to log your keypresses or record your screen.



These devices often cost between $100 to $200. Ledger and Trezor are both well-known hardware wallets. Hardware wallets are generally considered cold wallets because they don't have an active connection until they are plugged in.






Some new hardware wallets come with the ability to connect to your device through Bluetooth. Use these with caution because Bluetooth is a wireless signal that can be accessed by unwanted parties when it is turned on.


  Paper Wallets  

Early crypto users would write or type their keys on paper, which they called paper wallets. These evolved to include the keys and QR codes so wallets on mobile devices could scan them. However, paper wallets are easily damaged or lost, so many crypto owners do not use them anymore.



However, there is nothing wrong with using a paper wallet if you take measures to store it properly in a safe or deposit box and check on it once in a while to ensure it hasn't deteriorated.


   Crypto Wallet Security  

Wallet safety is essential, as cryptocurrencies are high-value targets for hackers. Some safeguards include encrypting the wallet with a strong password, using two-factor authentication for exchanges, and storing any large amounts you have offline.






There have been many cases of malware disguised as wallets, so it is advisable to research carefully before deciding which one to use.


  Seed Words  

Most modern wallets generate a twelve-word mnemonic seed phrase. An example phrase could be "airport bedroom impression sample reception protection road shirt..." which seems random but is created and linked to your keys by your wallet. You can use the phrase to restore the wallet if the device is lost or damaged. These words should be carefully stored in a safe place because anyone who finds them will be able to access your cryptocurrency.


  Cryptocurrency Exchanges  

Cryptocurrency exchanges have started offering custodial key storage for their users. However, you should use this service cautiously. Cryptocurrency exchanges are highly-prized targets for cybercriminals.



Additionally, if the cryptocurrency exchange goes out of business, there may be no guarantees that you'll get your cryptocurrency back. For example, Coinbase, a popular exchange, announced in its quarterly report to the Securities and Exchange Commission in May 2022 that:



...custodially held crypto assets may be considered to be the property of a bankruptcy estate, in the event of a bankruptcy, the crypto assets we hold in custody on behalf of our customers could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings and such customers could be treated as our general unsecured creditors.



General unsecured creditors are lower in priority on the list of creditors in a bankruptcy proceeding. Therefore, if there are not enough assets to liquidate and meet financial requirements for higher priority creditors, it is possible to lose your crypto assets if your custodial wallet company declares bankruptcy.



The best cryptocurrency key security measures involve removing your keys from your wallet, placing them in a form of cold storage, and securing them in a vault, safe, or deposit box. The more steps it takes for you to access your cryptocurrency, the harder it is for a criminal to access them. This way, you ensure you don't lose your keys. It also ensures that someone you have entrusted with your keys doesn't lose them or deny you access to them.




Which Cryptocurrency Wallet Is Best?
There are various wallets you can choose from with many options. It's best to read as many reviews as possible to find one that fits your needs while ensuring your keys are secure.




What Is the Safest Crypto Wallet?
The safest crypto wallet has no connection on its own or to a device with internet access. It also should not deny you access to your crypto because the custodian has financial issues. Many so-called "safe" wallets have wireless connection technology that determined cybercriminals can access.




Do I Need a Wallet for Cryptocurrency?
Yes. You cannot access your cryptocurrency without your private keys and an interface that accesses a blockchain. All wallets can store keys, but only hot wallets can access the blockchain, so it's important to keep your keys off your hot wallet until you need them.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings ("ICOs") is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Black Money?  

Black money includes all funds earned through illegal activity and otherwise legal income that is not recorded for tax purposes. Black money proceeds are usually received in cash from underground economic activity and, as such, are not taxed. Recipients of black money must hide it, spend it only in the underground economy, or attempt to give it the appearance of legitimacy through money laundering.





Key Takeaways

Black money includes all funds earned through illegal activity and otherwise legal income that is not recorded for tax purposes.Higher amounts of black money in the economy often lead to increased corruption.On the other hand, black money can reduce the negative impact of oppressive laws.Black money can be illegally disguised as legitimate money through money laundering.


   How Black Money Works  

In its simplest form, black money is money on which tax is not paid to the government. Suppose a store accepts cash for its merchandise and does not issue receipts to its customers. That store is transacting in black money, as it would not pay tax on the unrecorded sales. As another example, consider a property buyer who purchases land valued at $200,000. If the buyer only reports $50,000 on the books and pays $150,000 under the table, then there is a black money transaction worth $150,000. The sellers in both examples have earned money from legal sources but evaded taxes.



The most common source of black money is the black market or underground economy. Activities in the black market may include selling prohibited drugs, gunrunning, terrorism, and human trafficking. Black market activities also involve less severe offenses, such as the sale of counterfeit goods, stolen credit cards, or pirated versions of copyrighted material.



The portion of a country's income tied to black money affects the economic growth of the country. Black money causes financial leakage, as unreported income that is not taxed causes the government to lose revenue. In addition, these funds rarely enter the banking system. As a result, it can be more difficult for legitimate small businesses and entrepreneurs to obtain loans.



Furthermore, black money causes the financial health of a nation to be underestimated. It is extremely difficult to estimate the amount of black money in any economy. That is not surprising, given that participants in the underground economy have strong incentives to conceal their activities. These unreported earnings cannot be included in a country’s gross national product (GNP) or gross domestic product (GDP). Thus, a nation's estimates of savings, consumption, and other macroeconomic variables would be misleading. These inaccuracies adversely affect planning and policymaking.


   Criticism of Black Money  

In addition to some of the clearly immoral activities, such as human trafficking, that are pursued to obtain black money, black money itself creates issues. Most notably, higher amounts of black money in the economy often lead to increased corruption. Businesses that make substantial profits in the underground economy almost necessarily have to pay law enforcement to look the other way from time to time. However, that leads to a corrupt police force that may move from ignoring offenses to actively participating in crimes.


   Benefits of Black Money  

Black money produces the most benefits in societies with the most oppressive laws. For example, many ordinary market economic transactions were illegal in the Soviet Union. People turned to the underground economy to alleviate shortages and obtain banned goods. In many other cases, regimes imposed price controls that made goods unobtainable or sales taxes that made them unaffordable. Black money provided a way to decrease the damage.



Black money can also help to reduce the impact of systematic racism. Historically, governments banned certain races from holding land, trading securities, or otherwise exercising their natural rights to engage in commerce. These bans pushed some victims of discrimination into less regulated areas where they were free to earn black money.


   Special Considerations  

Most black money holders attempt to convert the money into legal money, also known as white money. There are a number of ways to do that.






The penalties against money laundering are often severe, so legitimate businesses must be careful to avoid accidentally participating in it.



Money laundering can be perpetrated using the hawala system of transactions. The hawala system is an informal and cheap method of transferring money from one region to another without any actual money movement and without the use of banks. It operates on codes and contacts, and no paperwork or disclosure is required. If a money launderer in the U.S. decides to send $20,000 through a hawala dealer to a recipient in India, the exchange rate agreed upon will be fixed at a significantly higher rate than the official rate.



Tax havens can offer anonymity to money launderers due to the lax policies on funds deposited in their countries. Other outlets for black money include real estate, jewelry, cash, bullion investments, and cryptocurrencies.
What Is a Black Box Model?  

In science, computing, and engineering, a black box is a device, system, or object which produces useful information without revealing any information about its internal workings. The explanations for its conclusions remain opaque or “black.”



Financial analysts, hedge fund managers, and investors may use software that is based on a black-box model in order to transform data into a useful investment strategy.



Advances in computing power, artificial intelligence, and machine learning capabilities are causing a proliferation of black box models in many professions, and are adding to the mystique surrounding them.



Black box models are eyed warily by potential users in many professions. As one physician writes in a paper about their uses in cardiology: "Black box is shorthand for models that are sufficiently complex that they are not straightforwardly interpretable to humans."





Key Takeaways

A black box model receives inputs and produces outputs but its workings are unknowable.Black box models are increasingly used to drive decision-making in the financial markets.Technology advances, particularly in machine learning capabilities, make it impossible for a human mind to analyze or understand precisely how black box models produce their conclusions.The opposite of a black box is a white box. Its results are transparent and can be analyzed by the user.The term black box model can be easily misused and may merely reflect a need to protect proprietary software or a desire to avoid clear explanations.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Understanding a Black Box Model  

Many things can be described as black boxes: a transistor, an algorithm, and even the human brain.



The opposite of a black box is a system made up of inner workings that are available for inspection. This is commonly referred to as a white box, although it is sometimes called a clear box or a glass box.


   The Black Box Model in Finance  

Within financial markets, the increasing use of black box methods poses a number of concerns.



A black box model is not inherently risky, but it does raise some governance and ethical questions.



Investment advisors who use black box methods can conceal the true risk of the assets they recommend under the guise of protecting proprietary technology. That leaves both investors and regulators without the facts that they need to accurately assess the risk that is being undertaken.



Do the benefits of black box methods offset the drawbacks? Opinions differ.


  Who Uses Black Box Financial Models  

The use of black box models to analyze investments has gone in and out of style over the years, usually depending on whether the financial markets are up or down.



During volatile patches in the financial markets, black box strategies are singled out for their potentially destructive nature. The risk levels being undertaken may not be evident until extreme losses reveal them.



Advances in computing power, big data applications, artificial intelligence, and machine learning capabilities are increasing the use and adding to the mystique surrounding black box models that use sophisticated quantitative methods.



Hedge funds and some of the world’s largest investment managers now routinely use black box models to manage their investment strategies.






The use of the black box model in psychology can be traced to B.F. Skinner, father of the school of behaviorism. Skinner argued that psychologists should study the brain's responses, not its processes.


  Black Box Blowups  

There have been several notable instances that included extreme losses in portfolios devoted to black box strategies. Black box strategies were not to blame for these events. However, investors who were dependent on those strategies suffered from them. as did many other investors who were caught in the storm.



These events include:



Black Monday, on Oct. 19, 1987. when the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 22% in one day.
The collapse of a hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management, in 1998. The fund made huge profits using an arbitrage strategy to buy bonds until a bond default by Russia's government caused it to collapse, nearly bringing the global financial system with it.
The "flash crash" on Aug. 24, 2015. Flash crashes, which now occur periodically, involve a short uncontrolled drop in an asset's value, followed by an immediate recovery in its price. An increase in computerized orders is usually blamed. There were actually two flash crashes in 2015. The August event involved the S&P 500 Index and another involving trading in U.S. dollars on March 18.


   The Black Box Model in Computing  

Machine learning techniques that have greatly contributed to the growth and sophistication of black box models are closely related, particularly relevant to machine learning.



In fact, it has been argued that the workings of black box predictive models that are created from algorithms can become so complex that no human could work through all of the variables involved in making a prediction.


   The Black Box Model in Engineering  

The black box model is used in engineering to build predictive models that exist in computer code rather than in physical form.



The variables can then be observed, analyzed, tested, and revised without the expensive and time-consuming process of actually building them in the real world.




What Is a Black Box Model in Finance?
A black box model designed for use in the financial markets is a software program that analyses market data and produces a strategy for buying and selling based upon that analysis.The user of the black box can understand the results but cannot see the logic behind them. When machine learning techniques are used in the model's construction, the inputs are in fact too complex for a human brain to interpret.




Is Black Box Trading Legit?
BlackBoxStocks is the name of an internet-based trading platform for stocks and options traders. The company says it uses "'predictive technology' enhanced by artificial intelligence" to identify rapid changes in prices that can be exploited by day traders.Founded in 2016, BlackBoxStocks is listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol BLBX.The site Day Trader Review calls it "an incredibly good value."A review in The Stock Dork calls it "the real deal and one of the best market scanning systems available."Note that the reviews are evaluating BlackBoxStocks as a consumer trading platform. They are not drawing conclusions about the degree of accuracy of its predictions.




What Is the Black Box Model of Consumer Behavior?
The black box model of consumer behavior is drawn from the academic field of behavioral psychology.Behavioral psychologists view the human brain as a black box. The human mind responds to stimuli. In order to change behavior, the stimuli must be changed, not the mind that reacts to the stimuli.This theory has been adopted by marketers as a way to analyze the consumer decision-making process. The analysis attempts to understand and influence buying decisions by observing the consumer's response to certain stimuli.




What Is the Black Box Model vs. the White Box Model?
In the field of artificial intelligence, a black box model uses a machine-learning algorithm to make predictions while the explanation for that prediction remains unknowable and untraceable.A white box model attempts to incorporate restraints that make the machine learning process more transparent.Transparency, or "interpretability," could be an ethical and legal objective in models used in healthcare, banking, or insurance, among other industries.


   The Bottom Line  

Black box models are increasingly being used to create software not only for applications in the investing world but for use in healthcare, banking, engineering, and other fields.



The black box model is developing in tandem with machine learning capabilities, and both are increasing in the complexity of their processes.



In fact, they are becoming more opaque. That is, we are relying on their results without understanding how those results are produced.
What Is Black Friday?  

Black Friday refers to the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday, which has also traditionally been a holiday itself for many employees. It is typically a day full of special shopping deals and big discounts and is considered the beginning of the holiday shopping season.



The sales made on Black Friday are often thought of as a litmus test for the overall economic condition of the country and a way for economists to measure the confidence of the average American when it comes to discretionary spending. Those who share the Keynesian assumption that spending drives economic activity view lower Black Friday sales figures as a harbinger of slower growth.





Key Takeaways

Black Friday refers to the day after Thanksgiving and is symbolically seen as the start of the critical holiday shopping season.Stores offer big discounts on electronics, toys, and other gifts.Also important to retailers: Cyber Monday, the first day back to work for many consumers after the long holiday weekend, on which online retailers offer major discounts.


   Understanding Black Friday  

It's common for retailers to offer special promotions online and in-store on Black Friday. Many open their doors during the pre-dawn hours on Black Friday to attract customers. To keep up with the competition, some retailers have gone so far as to keep their operations going on the Thanksgiving holiday, while others begin offering deals earlier during November.



Really avid bargain hunters have been known to camp out overnight on Thanksgiving to secure a place in line at a favorite store; the most fanatical have been known to skip Thanksgiving dinner altogether and camp out in parking lots for days or even weeks to get great deals. The promotions usually continue through Sunday, and both brick-and-mortar stores and online retailers see a spike in sales.






Black Friday also refers to a stock market catastrophe that took place on Sept. 24, 1869. On that day, after a period of rampant speculation, the price of gold plummeted, and the markets crashed.


   Black Friday and Retail Spending  

Retailers may spend an entire year planning their Black Friday sales. They use the day as an opportunity to offer rock-bottom prices on overstock inventory and to offer doorbusters and discounts on seasonal items, such as holiday decorations and typical holiday gifts.



Retailers also offer significant discounts on big-ticket items and top-selling brands of TVs, smart devices, and other electronics, luring customers in the hope that, when inside, they will purchase higher-margin goods. The contents of Black Friday advertisements are often so highly anticipated that retailers go to great lengths to ensure they don't leak out publicly beforehand.



Consumers often shop on Black Friday for the hottest trending items, which can lead to stampedes and violence in the absence of adequate security. For example, on Black Friday in 1983, customers engaged in scuffles, fistfights, and stampedes in stores across the U.S. to buy Cabbage Patch Kids dolls, that year's must-have toy, which was also believed to be in short supply. Appallingly, a worker at a big store was trampled to death on Black Friday in 2008, as throngs of shoppers pushed their way into the store when the doors opened.


   The Surprising Origins of Black Friday  

The concept of retailers throwing post-Turkey Day sales started long before "Black Friday" was actually coined. In an effort to kick off the holiday shopping season with a bang and attract hordes of shoppers, stores have promoted major deals the day after Thanksgiving for decades, banking on the fact that many companies and businesses gave employees that Friday off.



So why the name? Some say the day is called Black Friday as an homage to the term "black" referring to profitability, which stems from the old bookkeeping practice of recording profits in black ink and losses in red ink. The idea is retail businesses sell enough on this Friday (and the ensuing weekend) to put themselves "in the black” for the rest of the year.



However, long before it started appearing in advertisements and commercials, the term was actually coined by overworked Philadelphia police officers. In the 1950s, crowds of shoppers and visitors flooded the City of Brotherly Love the day after Thanksgiving. Not only did Philadelphia stores tout major sales and the unveiling of holiday decorations on this special day, but the city also hosted the Army-Navy football game on Saturday of the same weekend.



As a result, traffic cops were required to work 12-hour shifts to deal with the throngs of drivers and pedestrians, and they were not allowed to take the day off. Over time, the annoyed officers—using a descriptive that's no longer acceptable—started to refer to this dreaded workday as Black Friday.



The term spread to store salespeople who used "Black Friday" to describe the long lines and general chaos they had to deal with on that day. It remained Philadelphia slang for a few decades, spreading to a few nearby cities, such as Trenton, N.J.



Finally, in the mid-1990s—celebrating the positive connotation of black ink—"Black Friday” swept the nation and started to appear in print and TV ad campaigns across the United States.


   The Evolution of Black Friday  

Somewhere along the way, Black Friday made the giant leap from congested streets and crowded stores to fevered shoppers fighting over parking spaces and tussling over the latest must-have toy. When did Black Friday become the frenzied, over-the-top shopping event it is today?



That would be in the 2000s when Black Friday was officially designated the biggest shopping day of the year. Until then, that title had gone to the Saturday before Christmas. Yet, as more retailers started touting "can’t miss” post-Thanksgiving sales, and the Black Friday discounts grew deeper and deeper, American consumers could no longer resist the pull of this big shopping day.



In 2011, Walmart announced that, instead of opening its doors on Friday morning, it would start sales on Thanksgiving evening. That started a frenzy among other big-box retailers who quickly followed suit. Today, Black Friday is a longer event—a Black Weekend.



According to the National Retail Federation (NRF), 196.7 million consumers in the U.S. shopped during the 2022 five-day holiday weekend between Thanksgiving Day and Cyber Monday, up nearly 17 million since 2021, clocking in at "the highest figure since NRF first started tracking this data in 2017." The average amount spent on holiday items during the 2022 weekend was $325.44 (compared to $301.27 in 2021). Of that total, $229.21, was spent on gifts, according to the NRT. On Nov. 3, the NRF predicted that overall holiday sales will grow 6% to 8% to between $942.6 billion and $960.4 billion in 2022. Overall, sales beat expectations for how the holiday season would go.


   Black Friday vs. Cyber Monday  

For online retailers, a similar tradition has arisen on the Monday following Thanksgiving—Cyber Monday. The idea is that consumers return to work after the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, ready to start shopping. Online retailers often herald their promotions and sales prior to the actual day in order to compete against the Black Friday offerings at brick-and-mortar stores.



As a result, in terms of sales, Cyber Monday has proved a hit among shoppers. However, Black Friday has become an even bigger hit. Though Cyber Monday had traditionally been the biggest online shopping day of the year, it has been surpassed by Black Friday since 2019. About 87.2 million shopped online on Black Friday 2022; the numbers for Cyber Monday were 77 million, according to the NRF.






Also part of the Thanksgiving holiday weekend shopping bonanza is Small Business Saturday, which was created to encourage consumers to shop locally at small businesses.


   The Significance of Black Friday  

Some investors and analysts look at Black Friday numbers as a way to gauge the overall health of the entire retail industry. Others scoff at the notion that Black Friday has any real fourth-quarter predictability for the stock markets as a whole. Instead, they suggest that it only causes very short-term gains or losses.



However, in general, the stock market can be affected by having extra days off for Thanksgiving or Christmas. It tends to see increased trading activity and higher returns the day before a holiday or a long weekend, a phenomenon known as the holiday effect or the weekend effect. Many traders look to capitalize on these seasonal bumps.




When Is Black Friday?
Black Friday occurs the day after Thanksgiving. In 2022, Black Friday takes place on Nov. 25.




Why Is Black Friday Important to Economists?
The money spent by consumers on Black Friday is seen as a measure of the economy. It gives economists a way to gauge consumer confidence and discretionary spending.




What Is Cyber Monday?
Cyber Monday takes place on the Monday following the Thanksgiving weekend (Nov. 28 in 2022). Online retailers offer sales on this day and traditional retailers offer exclusive, website-only deals.


   The Bottom Line  

Black Friday takes place the day after Thanksgiving and has traditionally been viewed as the start of the holiday shopping season. Consumers seek out big discounts offered by retailers, while economists use overall sales figures to gauge consumer confidence and the health of the economy.
What Is a Black Market?  

A black market is an economic activity that takes place outside government-sanctioned channels. Illegal market transactions usually occur “under the table” to let participants avoid government price controls or taxes. The goods and services offered in a black market can be illegal, meaning their purchase and sale are prohibited by law, or they can be legal but transacted to avoid taxes.



Illegal markets are also known as illegal markets, shadow markets, or underground markets.





Key Takeaways

An illegal market is an economic activity that occurs outside of government-sanctioned channels.Underground markets trade in illegal goods and services, legal goods and services to avoid taxes, or both.Examples of underground markets include the sale of illegal drugs, weapons, human trafficking, and the illegal wildlife trade.Underground markets can have a negative impact on the economy because the activity is not reported and taxes are not collected on the transactions.Underground markets do provide some benefits, such as creating jobs for those who may not be able to find employment in traditional markets and allowing access to medicine and healthcare to those individuals that might not have had access otherwise.


   Understanding an Underground Market  

Traditionally, underground market activity was conducted in cash, one of its defining aspects. This was done in order to avoid creating any paper trail. With the rise of the Internet, many underground market transactions are now done online, such as on the dark web, and often conducted with digital currencies.



Because of this nature, illegal markets can take a toll on an economy since they are shadow markets where economic activity is not recorded and taxes are not paid. It is often assumed that a country's gross domestic product (GDP) is not its actual GDP because it does not take into account all the business activity conducted in underground markets.



The underground market's many drawbacks include the risk of fraud, the possibility of violence, and being saddled with counterfeit goods or adulterated products, which is especially dangerous in the case of medications.


   Types of Illegal Markets  

An underground market is often a place for the exchange of illicit and dangerous goods. They are venues where highly controlled substances or products such as drugs and firearms are illegally traded.



Human trafficking is a very large illegal market. Human trafficking moves people into forced labor, prostitution, child armies, and the market for human organs.



In 2021, it is estimated that there are 40 million people trapped in modern enslavement worldwide. One-in-four of them are children. Almost three-quarters (71%) are women and girls. From a 2014 International Labor Organization (ILO) report, human trafficking earns profits of $150 billion a year and there are no published numbers more updated about this aspect.



Other underground markets include illegal gambling, the illegal wildlife trade, and illegal mining, fishing, and logging.



In the financial context, the biggest underground market exists for currencies in nations with strict currency controls. While most people may shun an underground market because they consider it sleazy, there may be rare occasions when they have no choice but to turn to this necessary evil.



As for currency illegal markets, they exist primarily in nations that—apart from currency controls—have weak economic fundamentals (such as a high inflation rate and low currency reserves) and a fixed exchange rate where the domestic currency is pegged at an unrealistically high level to the U.S. dollar or other currency. As a result, the currency underground market is flourishing in nations like Argentina, Iran, and Venezuela.


   The Necessity of Black Markets  

Sometimes, an underground market is the only choice for procuring goods in certain situations for certain people. For example, suppose you are on vacation with your family in an exotic location and run out of formula for your baby. If there is nothing available in local stores and the only way to acquire baby formula is through an underground market transaction, few people would hesitate to make the purchase.



Paying a premium over the face value of a ticket to see a concert or sporting event is also an example of an illegal market transaction. In a number of developing nations, life-saving medicines are in short supply, and often, the only alternative is to procure them through the underground market.






Underground market transactions provide no recourse to the buyer in case the product is defective and a buyer in an underground market can suffer penalties and jail times just as easily as a seller can.



While critics may carp that this only serves to perpetuate the illegal and unethical practice of profiteering from someone else’s misfortune, participating in the underground market is a relatively easy decision to make when someone’s life is at stake.


   Example of an Underground Market  

One of the most recent examples of an underground market using modern technology was that of the Silk Road market. This was a digital market that used Bitcoin for money laundering and illegal drug transactions and weapons sales.



The market began in 2011 and closed in 2013 when it was stopped by the FBI. The man behind the market was a 29-year old computer science engineer named Ross Ulbricht. Silk Road sold a variety of illegal goods and made $1 billion in sales.



It connected 4,000 drug dealers to 100,000 buyers. An individual could purchase almost anything; heroin, rocket launchers, falsified documents, and even murders for hire were discussed. It was known as the Amazon of the dark web.



It led to a global search for Ulbricht. He was finally captured, the illegal market shut down, and he is now serving life in prison.




What Is a Simple Definition of the Black Market?
A black market is any market where the exchange of goods and services takes place in order to facilitate the transaction of illegal goods or to avoid government oversight and taxes, or both.




How Does the Underground Market Work?
There are a variety of illegal markets and all of them work in different ways. An underground market can be a physical market where two individuals meet to exchange illegal goods, for example, a drug transaction on a street corner. An underground market can also exist online, such as on the dark web, where individuals communicate to exchange goods and payments are made in digital currencies.




What Is an Example of an Underground Market?
An example of an illegal or underground market would be the human trafficking market that engages in the capture of people throughout the world and their sale into various areas, such as forced labor and prostitution.




Is the Black Market Illegal?
All black markets are illegal.




Why Is It Called the Black Market?
There are various theories as to why it is called the "black" market. These include the association of the word black with shadows and darkness, with the markets that continued to sell slaves after abolition, and the association of the color black with anarchist groups.
What Was Black Monday?  

Black Monday occurred on Oct. 19, 1987, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) lost almost 22% in a single day. The event marked the beginning of a global stock market decline, and Black Monday became one of the most notorious days in financial history. By the end of the month, most of the major exchanges had dropped more than 20%.



Economists have attributed the crash to a combination of geopolitical events and the advent of computerized program trading that accelerated the selloff.





Key Takeaways

Black Monday refers to the stock market crash that occurred on Oct. 19, 1987, when the DJIA lost almost 22% in a single day, triggering a global stock market decline.The SEC has built a number of protective mechanisms, such as trading curbs and circuit breakers, to prevent panic-selling.Investors can take pre-emptive steps in order to deal with the possibility of a stock market crash, similar to Black Monday, happening again.


   Causes of Black Monday  

The cause of the massive stock market drop cannot be attributed to any single news event since no major news event was released the weekend preceding the crash. However, several events coalesced to create an atmosphere of panic among investors.



A strong bull market overdue for a correction: One of the main factors that drove the Black Monday crash was a strong bull market that was overdue for a major correction in prices since 1982. Stock prices had since then tripled in value.
Program Trading: The trade deficit of the United States widened with respect to other countries. Computerized trading, which was still not the dominant force it is today, was increasingly making its presence felt at several Wall Street firms. The stock market crash of 1987 revealed the role of financial and technological innovation in increased market volatility. In automatic trading, also called program trading, human decision-making is taken out of the equation, and buy or sell orders are generated automatically based on the price levels of benchmark indexes or specific stocks. Leading up to the crash, the models in use tended to produce strong positive feedback, generating more buy orders when prices were rising and more sell orders when prices began to fall.
Portfolio Insurance: Portfolio insurance is a program trading strategy that seems to be one of the key factors at the center of Black Monday. The strategy is aimed to hedge a portfolio of stocks against market risk by short-selling stock index futures, thus limiting the potential losses if stocks decline in price, without having to sell off those stocks. The computer programs began liquidating stocks as certain loss targets were hit, pushing prices lower. This led to a domino effect as the falling markets triggered more stop-loss orders, while bids stopped.
Triple Witching: Oct. 16, the Friday before the crash, experienced the simultaneous expiration of stock options, stock index futures, and stock index options contracts, a phenomenon known as triple witching. This resulted in extremely high volatility on the last hour of Friday trading, with large sell-offs in the after-hours markets.
Mass Panic: Crises, such as a standoff between Kuwait and Iran, which threatened to disrupt oil supplies, also made investors jittery. The role of media as an amplifying factor for these developments has also come in for criticism. While there are many theories that attempt to explain why the crash occurred, most agree that mass panic caused the crash to escalate.


   Aftermath of Black Monday  

Following the crash, the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates by half a percentage point, hoping to free up capital and encourage more lending. It also injected billions of dollars into the economy through quantitative easing.



Regulators introduced new protective mechanisms to prevent flash crashes due to program trading. Circuit breakers were introduced to leading stock markets to automatically shut down trading in the event of unusual price movements.



Circuit breakers can halt all trading on an exchange if a certain index (in the U.S., the S&P 500) experiences an unusual drop. There are also circuit breakers for individual stocks, halting trading in that security only. This is intended to prevent traders from panic selling during momentary drops.



As of 2022, the circuit breakers are set at the levels of 7%, 13%, and 20%. A 7% drop from the close of the previous trading day is considered a Level 1 decline, resulting in a 15-minute trading halt. A 13% decline is Level 2 and also results in a 15-minute halt. A 20% drop ends trading for that day.


   Can It Happen Again?  

Since Black Monday, a number of protective mechanisms have been built into the market to prevent panic selling, such as trading curbs and circuit breakers. However, high-frequency trading (HFT) algorithms driven by supercomputers move massive volumes in just milliseconds, which increases volatility.



The 2010 Flash Crash was the result of HFT gone awry, sending the stock market down 10% in a matter of minutes. This led to the installation of tighter price bands, but the stock market has experienced several volatile moments since 2010.



Amid the 2020 global crisis, markets lost similar amounts in the month of March as jobless rates reached their highest levels since the Great Depression, before recovering over the summer of that year.


   Lessons From Black Monday and Other Market Crashes  

A market crash of any duration is temporary. Many of the steepest market rallies have occurred immediately following a sudden crash. The steep market declines in August 2015 and January 2016 were both roughly 10% drops, but the market fully recovered and rallied to new or near new highs in the following months.


  Stick With Your Strategy  

A well-conceived, long-term investment strategy based on personal investment objectives should provide the confidence for investors to remain steadfast while everyone else is panicking. Investors who lack a strategy tend to let their emotions guide their decision-making.


  Buying Opportunities  

Knowing that market crashes are only temporary, these times should be considered an opportunity to buy stocks or funds. Market crashes are inevitable. Savvy investors have a shopping list prepared for stocks or funds that would be more attractive at lower prices and buy while others are selling.


  Turn Off the Noise  

Over the long term, market crashes such as Black Monday are a small blip in the performance of a well-structured portfolio. Short-term market events are impossible to predict, and they are soon forgotten. Long-term investors are better served by tuning out the noise of the media and the herd and focusing on their long-term objectives.


   Other Black Mondays  

While the term "Black Monday" is most commonly applied to the stock market crash of 1987, it can also be applied to any other sudden, one-day drop in prices on the first day of the week.



The first Black Monday was on Oct. 28, 1929, just after the beginning of the crash that ultimately resulted in the Great Depression. On that day, stocks fell by 12.8%. The crash was attributed to low wages, increasing debt, and an excess of large bank loans that could not be liquidated.



The term can also describe the flash crash on August 24, 2015, when the DJIA fell by 1,089 points just after the market opened. The drop, which followed another sharp decline the previous Friday, was attributed to economic worries about China. The market partially rebounded and closed 533 points below the open.



The term is less commonly applied to the crash of March 9, 2020, when the DJIA fell nearly 8%. due to the uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. The following Thursday, the market crashed again by 10%.




What Caused Black Monday 1929?
Black Monday often refers to Oct. 28, 1929, when stocks fell by 12.82%. A few days earlier, on Black Thursday, stocks had already experienced a decline of 11%. This precipitated the stock market crash of 1929. Other causes of the crash were low wages, increasing debt, a struggling agricultural sector, and an excess of large bank loans that could not be liquidated.




Did People Lose Money on Black Monday?
Yes. Black Monday caused about $500 billion in losses when the Dow Jones Industrial Index fell 508 points. In percentage terms, it is the biggest-ever one-day stock-market loss.




Why Is It called Black Monday?
Black Monday refers not only to the events on Oct. 19, 1987, but also to a number of specific Mondays when sudden, severe, and turbulent events have occurred, from military battles to massacres and stock market crashes. The term seems to have been coined by U.S. Representative John Bell Williams on the floor of Congress in Washington, D.C. on Monday, 17 May 1954. This was the date of the Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education, in which the Court ruled that U.S. state laws establishing racial segregation in public schools were unconstitutional. In opposition to the decision, white citizens' councils were formally organized throughout the South to preserve segregation and defend segregated schools.


   The Bottom Line  

Black Monday refers to the catastrophic worldwide stock market crash on Oct. 19, 1987, when the DJIA fell 508 points, or 22.6%, in a single day. It remains the largest one-day decline ever. Other major stock markets saw similarly huge declines.



Stock markets quickly recovered a majority of their Black Monday losses. In just two trading sessions, the DJIA gained back 288 points, or 57%, of the total Black Monday losses. In less than two years, US stock markets had surpassed their pre-crash highs.



Since then, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has built a number of protective mechanisms to avoid market panics, such as trading curbs and circuit breakers.
What Is the Black-Scholes Model?  

The Black-Scholes model, also known as the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) model, is one of the most important concepts in modern financial theory. This mathematical equation estimates the theoretical value of derivatives based on other investment instruments, taking into account the impact of time and other risk factors. Developed in 1973, it is still regarded as one of the best ways for pricing an options contract.





Key Takeaways

The Black-Scholes model, aka the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) model, is a differential equation widely used to price options contracts.The Black-Scholes model requires five input variables: the strike price of an option, the current stock price, the time to expiration, the risk-free rate, and the volatility.Though usually accurate, the Black-Scholes model makes certain assumptions that can lead to predictions that deviate from the real-world results.The standard BSM model is only used to price European options, as it does not take into account that American options could be exercised before the expiration date.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   History of the Black-Scholes Model  

Developed in 1973 by Fischer Black, Robert Merton, and Myron Scholes, the Black-Scholes model was the first widely used mathematical method to calculate the theoretical value of an option contract, using current stock prices, expected dividends, the option's strike price, expected interest rates, time to expiration, and expected volatility.



The initial equation was introduced in Black and Scholes' 1973 paper, "The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities," published in the Journal of Political Economy. Robert C. Merton helped edit that paper. Later that year, he published his own article, "Theory of Rational Option Pricing," in The Bell Journal of Economics and Management Science, expanding the mathematical understanding and applications of the model, and coining the term "Black–Scholes theory of options pricing."



In 1997, Scholes and Merton were awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for their work in finding "a new method to determine the value of derivatives." Black had passed away two years earlier, and so could not be a recipient, as Nobel Prizes are not given posthumously; however, the Nobel committee acknowledged his role in the Black-Scholes model.






   How the Black-Scholes Model Works  

Black-Scholes posits that instruments, such as stock shares or futures contracts, will have a lognormal distribution of prices following a random walk with constant drift and volatility. Using this assumption and factoring in other important variables, the equation derives the price of a European-style call option.



The Black-Scholes equation requires five variables. These inputs are volatility, the price of the underlying asset, the strike price of the option, the time until expiration of the option, and the risk-free interest rate. With these variables, it is theoretically possible for options sellers to set rational prices for the options that they are selling.



Furthermore, the model predicts that the price of heavily traded assets follows a geometric Brownian motion with constant drift and volatility. When applied to a stock option, the model incorporates the constant price variation of the stock, the time value of money, the option's strike price, and the time to the option's expiry.


  Black-Scholes Assumptions  

The Black-Scholes model makes certain assumptions:



No dividends are paid out during the life of the option.
Markets are random (i.e., market movements cannot be predicted).
There are no transaction costs in buying the option.
The risk-free rate and volatility of the underlying asset are known and constant.
The returns of the underlying asset are normally distributed.
The option is European and can only be exercised at expiration.



While the original Black-Scholes model didn't consider the effects of dividends paid during the life of the option, the model is frequently adapted to account for dividends by determining the ex-dividend date value of the underlying stock. The model is also modified by many option-selling market makers to account for the effect of options that can be exercised before expiration.






Alternatively, for the pricing of the more commonly traded American-style options, firms will use a binomial or trinomial model or the Bjerksund-Stensland model.


   The Black-Scholes Model Formula  

The mathematics involved in the formula are complicated and can be intimidating. Fortunately, you don't need to know or even understand the math to use Black-Scholes modeling in your own strategies. Options traders have access to a variety of online options calculators, and many of today's trading platforms boast robust options analysis tools, including indicators and spreadsheets that perform the calculations and output the options pricing values.



The Black-Scholes call option formula is calculated by multiplying the stock price by the cumulative standard normal probability distribution function. Thereafter, the net present value (NPV) of the strike price multiplied by the cumulative standard normal distribution is subtracted from the resulting value of the previous calculation.



In mathematical notation:


















C


=


S


N


(



d


1



)


−


K



e



−


r


t




N


(



d


2



)
















where:

















d


1



=




l



n


K


S



+


(


r


+




σ


v


2



2



)


t





σ


s




t



















and

















d


2



=



d


1



−



σ


s




t


















and


 


where:

















C


=


Call option price
















S


=


Current stock (or other underlying) price
















K


=


Strike price
















r


=


Risk-free interest rate
















t


=


Time to maturity
















N


=


A normal distribution







\begin{aligned}&C = SN (d_1) - Ke ^{-rt} N (d_2) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&d_1 = \frac { ln ^ S_K + (r + \frac { \sigma^2_v }{ 2 } ) t }{ \sigma_s \sqrt { t } } \\&\text{and} \\&d_2 = d_1 - \sigma_s \sqrt { t } \\&\textbf{and where:} \\&C = \text{Call option price} \\&S = \text{Current stock (or other underlying) price} \\&K = \text{Strike price} \\&r = \text{Risk-free interest rate} \\&t = \text{Time to maturity} \\&N = \text{A normal distribution} \\\end{aligned}


​C=SN(d1​)−Ke−rtN(d2​)where:d1​=σs​t​lnKS​+(r+2σv2​​)t​andd2​=d1​−σs​t​and where:C=Call option priceS=Current stock (or other underlying) priceK=Strike pricer=Risk-free interest ratet=Time to maturityN=A normal distribution​















Black, Scholes, Merton.
© KhanAcademy


   Volatility Skew  

Black-Scholes assumes stock prices follow a lognormal distribution because asset prices cannot be negative (they are bounded by zero).



Often, asset prices are observed to have significant right skewness and some degree of kurtosis (fat tails). This means high-risk downward moves often happen more often in the market than a normal distribution predicts.



The assumption of lognormal underlying asset prices should show that implied volatilities are similar for each strike price according to the Black-Scholes model. However, since the market crash of 1987, implied volatilities for at-the-money options have been lower than those further out of the money or far in the money. The reason for this phenomenon is the market is pricing in a greater likelihood of a high volatility move to the downside in the markets.



This has led to the presence of the volatility skew. When the implied volatilities for options with the same expiration date are mapped out on a graph, a smile or skew shape can be seen. Thus, the Black-Scholes model is not efficient for calculating implied volatility.






The Black-Scholes model is often contrasted against the binominal model or a Monte Carlo simulation.


   Benefits of the Black-Scholes Model  

The Black-Scholes model has been successfully implemented and used by many financial professionals due to the variety of benefits it has to offer. Some of these benefits are listed below.



Provides a Framework: The Black-Scholes model provides a theoretical framework for pricing options. This allows investors and traders to determine the fair price of an option using a structured, defined methodology that has been tried and tested.
Allows for Risk Management: By knowing the theoretical value of an option, investors can use the Black-Scholes model to manage their risk exposure to different assets. The Black-Scholes model is therefore useful to investors not only in evaluating potential returns but understanding portfolio weakness and deficient investment areas.
Allows for Portfolio Optimization: The Black-Scholes model can be used to optimize portfolios by providing a measure of the expected returns and risks associated with different options. This allows investors to make smarter choices better aligned with their risk tolerance and pursuit of profit.
Enhances Market Efficiency: The Black-Scholes model has led to greater market efficiency and transparency as traders and investors are better able to price and trade options. This simplifies the pricing process as there is greater implicit understanding of how prices are derived.
Streamlines Pricing: On a similar note, the Black-Scholes model is widely accepted and used by practitioners in the financial industry. This allows for greater consistency and comparability across different markets and jurisdictions.


   Limitations of the Black-Scholes Model  

Though the Black-Scholes model is widely use, there are still some drawbacks to the model; some of the drawbacks are listed below.



Limits Usefulness: As stated previously, the Black-Scholes model is only used to price European options and does not take into account that U.S. options could be exercised before the expiration date.
Lacks Cashflow Flexibility: The model assumes dividends and risk-free rates are constant, but this may not be true in reality. Therefore, the Black-Scholes model may lack the ability to truly reflect the accurate future cashflow of an investment due to model rigidity.
Assumes Constant Volatility: The model also assumes volatility remains constant over the option's life. In reality, this is often not the case because volatility fluctuates with the level of supply and demand.
Misleads Other Assumptions: The Black-Scholes model also leverages other assumptions. These assumptions include that there are no transaction costs or taxes, the risk-free interest rate is constant for all maturities, short selling of securities with use of proceeds is permitted, and there are no risk-less arbitrage opportunities. Each of these assumptions can lead to prices that deviate from actual results.





Benefits

Acts as a stable framework that can be used using a defined method.
Allows investors to mitigate risk by better understanding exposure
May be used to devise the best strategies for creating a portfolio based on an investor's preferences.
Streamlines and improves efficient calculating and reporting of figures



Limitations

Does not take into consideration all types of options
May lack cashflow flexibility based on the future projections of a security
May make inaccurate assumptions about future stable volatility
Relies on a number of other assumptions that may not materialize into the actual price of the security







What Does the Black-Scholes Model Do?
The Black-Scholes model, also known as Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM), was the first widely used model for option pricing. Based on certain assumptions about the behavior of asset prices, the equation calculates the price of a European-style call option based on known variables like the current price, maturity date, and strike price. It does so by subtracting the net present value (NPV) of the strike price multiplied by the cumulative standard normal distribution from the product of the stock price and the cumulative standard normal probability distribution function.




What Are the Inputs for Black-Scholes Model?
The inputs for the Black-Scholes equation are volatility, the price of the underlying asset, the strike price of the option, the time until expiration of the option, and the risk-free interest rate. With these variables, it is theoretically possible for options sellers to set rational prices for the options that they are selling.




What Assumptions Does Black-Scholes Model Make?
The original Black-Scholes model assumes that the option is a European-style option and can only be exercised at expiration. It also assumes that no dividends are paid out during the life of the option; that market movements cannot be predicted; that there are no transaction costs in buying the option; that the risk-free rate and volatility of the underlying are known and constant; and that the prices of the underlying asset follow a log-normal distribution.




What Are the Limitations of the Black-Scholes Model?
The Black-Scholes model is only used to price European options and does not take into account that American options could be exercised before the expiration date. Moreover, the model assumes dividends, volatility, and risk-free rates remain constant over the option's life.Not taking into account taxes, commissions or trading costs or taxes can also lead to valuations that deviate from real-world results.


   The Bottom Line  

The Black-Scholes model is a mathematical model used to calculate the fair price or theoretical value. It provides a way to calculate the theoretical value of an option by taking into account the current price of the underlying asset, the strike price of the option, the time remaining until expiration, the risk-free interest rate, and the volatility of the underlying asset. The Black-Scholes model has had a profound impact on finance and has led to the development of a wide range of derivative products such as futures, swaps, and options.



Correction—July 10, 2022: This article has been edited to clarify the assumptions that asset prices follow a log-normal distribution, while returns are normally distributed.
What Is a Black Swan?  

A black swan is an unpredictable event that is beyond what is normally expected of a situation and has potentially severe consequences.



Black swan events are characterized by their extreme rarity, severe impact, and the widespread insistence they were obvious in hindsight.





Key Takeaways

A black swan is an extremely rare event with severe consequences.It cannot be predicted beforehand, though after the fact, many falsely claim it should have been predictable.Black swan events can cause catastrophic damage to an economy by negatively impacting markets and investments, but even the use of robust modeling cannot prevent a black swan event.Reliance on standard forecasting tools can both fail to predict and potentially increase vulnerability to black swans by propagating risk and offering false security.The term was popularized by the book, The Black Swan, by Nassim Nicholas Taleb.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding a Black Swan  

The term was popularized by Nassim Nicholas Taleb, a finance professor, writer, and former Wall Street trader. Taleb wrote about the idea of a black swan event in a 2007 book prior to the events of the 2008 financial crisis. Taleb argued that because black swan events are impossible to predict due to their extreme rarity, yet have catastrophic consequences, it is important for people to always assume a black swan event is a possibility, whatever it may be, and to try to plan accordingly. Some believe that diversification may offer some protection when a black swan event does occur.






Taleb later used the 2008 financial crisis and the idea of black swan events to argue that if a broken system is allowed to fail, it actually strengthens it against the catastrophe of future black swan events. He also argued that conversely, a system that is propped up and insulated from risk ultimately becomes more vulnerable to catastrophic loss in the face of rare, unpredictable events.



Taleb describes a black swan as an event that:



Is so rare that even the possibility that it might occur is unknownHas a catastrophic impact when it does occurIs explained in hindsight as if it were actually predictable






   Special Considerations  

For extremely rare events, Taleb argues that the standard tools of probability and prediction, such as the normal distribution, do not apply since they depend on large population and past sample sizes that are never available for rare events by definition. Extrapolating, using statistics based on observations of past events is not helpful for predicting black swans, and might even make us more vulnerable to them.



The last key aspect of a black swan is that as a historically important event, observers are keen to explain it after the fact and speculate as to how it could have been predicted. Such retrospective speculation, however, does not actually help to predict future black swans as these can be anything from a credit crisis to a war.


   Examples of Past Black Swan Events  

The crash of the U.S. housing market during the 2008 financial crisis is one of the most recent and well-known black swan events. The effect of the crash was catastrophic and global, and only a few outliers were able to predict it happening.



Also in 2008, Zimbabwe had the worst case of hyperinflation in the 21st century with a peak inflation rate of more than 79.6 billion percent. An inflation level of that amount is nearly impossible to predict and can easily ruin a country financially.



The dotcom bubble of 2001 is another black swan event that has similarities to the 2008 financial crisis. America was enjoying rapid economic growth and increases in private wealth before the economy catastrophically collapsed. Since the Internet was at its infancy in terms of commercial use, various investment funds were investing in technology companies with inflated valuations and no market traction. When these companies folded, the funds were hit hard, and the downside risk was passed on to the investors. The digital frontier was new so it was nearly impossible to predict the collapse.



As another example, the previously successful hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM), was driven into the ground in 1998 as a result of the ripple effect caused by the Russian government's debt default, something the company's computer models could not have predicted.



A more recent example could be the emergence of the COVID-19 virus that caused a global pandemic beginning in the Spring of 2020, and which disrupted markets and global economies around the world.




What Is a Black Swan Event in the Stock Market?
A black swan event in the stock market is often a market crash that exceeds six standard deviations, making it exceedingly rare from a probabilistic standpoint. Some have argued that stock prices are "fat-tailed" and that such events are, in reality, more frequent than the statistics would let on.




Why Do They Call It a Black Swan Event?
A black swan is considered to be rare, since most swans are white. In fact, the story goes that black swans were thought once to not at all exist, until finally one was discovered. The lesson is that what we think are very rare events may be more common than previously thought.




What Is a Grey Swan Event?
A grey swan event is an outlier, but which is more probably than a black swan. As a result, people can better prepare for and hedge against a grey swan than for a black swan.
What Is Black Tuesday?  

Black Tuesday was Oct. 29, 1929, and it was marked by a sharp fall in the stock market, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) especially hard hit in high trading volume. The DJIA fell 12%, one of the largest one-day drops in stock market history. More than 16 million shares were traded in the panic sell-off, which effectively ended the Roaring Twenties and led the global economy into the Great Depression.





Key Takeaways

Black Tuesday refers to a precipitous drop in the value of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) on Oct 29, 1929. Black Tuesday marked the beginning of the Great Depression, which lasted until the beginning of World War II.Causes of Black Tuesday included too much debt used to buy stocks, global protectionist policies, and slowing economic growth. Black Tuesday had far-reaching consequences on America's economic system and trade policy.


   Understanding Black Tuesday  

Black Tuesday signaled the end of a period of post-World War I economic expansion and the beginning of the Great Depression, which lasted until the beginning of World War II.



The United States emerged from World War I as a major economic power, but the country's focus was on developing its own industry rather than international cooperation. High tariffs were imposed on many imported products to protect nascent industries such as cars and steel. Agricultural prices fell as European production returned after being shut down during the war, and tariffs were imposed to try to protect American farmers as well. However, their incomes and the value of their farms fell, and migration to the industrialized cities accelerated.



The boom years of the so-called Roaring Twenties were fueled by optimism that the world had fought the war to end all wars, and good times had arrived permanently. Between 1921 and the crash in 1929, stock prices went up nearly 10 times as ordinary individuals bought stock, often for the first time.﻿﻿ This was fueled by lending by brokers that at times reached two-thirds of the stock price, with the purchased stock serving as collateral. Income inequality also rose. It is estimated that the top 1% of America's population held 19.6% of its wealth.﻿﻿


   The 1929 Crash  

By the middle of 1929, the economy was showing signs of slowing, led by declines in purchases of houses and cars as consumers were burdened with debt. Steel production weakened.


  Protectionism  

A few years earlier, European production of agricultural goods began to recover following World War I, which meant American farmers would lose that market to sell their goods. As a result, the U.S. Congress passed a series of bills designed to help American farmers by increasing tariffs (or prices) on imports, including agricultural products. At the same time, news from Europe indicated an excellent harvest, which meant an increased supply and overproduction, pushing commodity prices lower and rattling the markets.



The U.S. Congress stepped in again and passed the Smoot-Hawley tariff act, which not only increased tariffs on agricultural goods but on goods in other sectors as well. Many other countries had also adopted protectionist policies. The impact on global trade was devastating. International trade had decreased by 66% from 1929 to 1934.﻿﻿


  The Fed  

In August, the Federal Reserve Bank allowed its New York regional board to raise its discount rate.﻿﻿ The monetary policy move caused central banks around the world to follow suit. The London stock market dropped sharply on Sept. 20 when top investor Clarence Hatry was jailed for fraud. Markets gyrated for the next month.


  The Crash  

All of these factors eventually caused the stock market to crash. On Black Thursday, Oct. 24, the market fell 11% at the open. Heads of the major American banks devised a plan to support the market by buying large chunks of stock, and the market closed down just 6 points. But by Black Monday, the 28th, panic and margin calls spread. The market fell 13% and a further 12% on Black Tuesday in record-setting volume.﻿﻿ Efforts led by the financiers and industrialists to support prices could not stem the tide of selling. The market lost $30 billion of value in those two days.



The market hit a 20th-century low of 41.22 on July 8, 1932, which was a fall of 89% from its high of 381.17 on Sept. 3, 1929.﻿﻿ Economic growth, as measured by Gross Domestic Product (GDP), shrank by more than 36% from 1929 to 1933. The unemployment rate in the United States surged to over 25% as workers were laid off after they had been hired during the boom years.﻿﻿



It was only after President Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected that the economy showed signs of taking a turn towards the better. Among his achievements is stopping the Smoot-Hawley tariffs and establishing the Reciprocal Trade Agreement Act in 1934. Still, a new high wasn't reached until Nov. 23, 1954.
What Is a Blended Rate?  

A blended rate is an interest rate charged on a loan that represents the combination of a previous rate and a new rate. Blended rates are usually offered through the refinancing of existing loans that are charged a rate of interest that is higher than the old loan's rate, but lower than the rate on a brand-new loan.



This type of rate is calculated for accounting purposes to better understand the true debt obligation for multiple loans with different rates or the revenue from several streams of interest.






Blended rates are often used to understand the true interest rate paid when refinancing a loan, but they can also be used when adding additional debt, such as a second mortgage.


   How Blended Rates Work  

A blended rate is used by lenders to encourage borrowers to refinance existing low-interest loans and also used to calculate the pooled cost of funds. These rates also represent a weighted average interest rate on corporate debt. The resulting rate is considered the aggregate interest rate on corporate debt.



Blended rates also apply to individual borrowers who refinance a personal loan or mortgage. There are several free online calculators available for consumers to compute their blended average interest rate after a refinance.





Key Takeaways

A blended rate is an interest rate charged on a loan that represents the combination of a previous rate and a new rate.Blended rates can apply to refinanced corporate debt, or to consumer loans, such as a refinanced mortgage.To calculate the blended rate, most often you will take the weighted average of the interest rates on the loans.


   Examples of Blended Rates  

Blended rates can apply to refinanced corporate debt, or to personal loans taken out by individuals. Calculating the blended rate involves taking the weighted average of the interest rates on the loans.


  Corporate Debt  

Some companies have more than one type of corporate debt. For example, if a company has $50,000 in debt at a 5% interest rate and $50,000 in debt at a 10% interest rate, the total blended rate would be calculated as:



(50,000 x 0.05 + 50,000 x 0.10) / (50,000 + 50,000) = 7.5%



The blended rate is also used in cost-of-funds accounting to quantify liabilities or investment income on a balance sheet. For example, if a company had two loans, one for $1,000 at 5% and the other for $3,000 at 6%, and it paid the interest off every month, the $1,000 loan would charge $50 after one year, and the $3,000 loan would charge $180. The blended rate would thus be:



(50 + 180) / 4,000 = 5.75%



As another hypothetical example, suppose Company A announced 2Q 2020 results with a note in the earnings report on the balance sheet section that outlined the company's blended rate on its $3.5 billion debt. Its blended interest rate for the quarter was 3.76%.


  Personal Loans  

Banks use a blended rate to retain customers and increase loan amounts to proven, creditworthy clients. For example, if a customer currently holds a $75,000 mortgage with a 7% interest rate and wishes to refinance when the current rate is 9%, the bank might offer a blended rate of 8%. The borrower could then decide to refinance for $150,000 with a blended rate of 8%.
What Is a Blind Trust?  

A blind trust is a trust established by the owner (or trustor) giving another party (the trustee) full control of the trust. The trustee has full discretion over the assets and investments while being charged with managing the assets and any income generated in the trust. The trustor can terminate the trust, but otherwise exercises no control over the actions taken within the trust and receives no reports from the trustees while the blind trust is in force. Blind trusts are often established in situations when individuals want to avoid conflicts of interest between their employment and investments.





Key Takeaways

A blind trust is a trust established by the owner (or trustor) giving another party (the trustee) full control of the trust.The trustee has control over the assets and investments while managing the assets and any income generated in the trust.Blind trusts are often established when individuals want to avoid conflicts of interest between their employment and investments.


   How a Blind Trust Works  

In a typical trust, the trustor or originator appoints a trustee to act as the fiduciary, meaning the trustee is charged with honoring the trust agreement, such as distributing the funds following the death of the trustor. The trust can contain various investments, including equities, bonds, and real estate. The trustor and trustee are often in contact with each other while the beneficiary of the trust is usually aware of the trust and perhaps, aware of the holdings within the trust.



Conversely, a blind trust is designed so that the trust beneficiaries and the trustor have no knowledge of the investment holdings within the trust. Neither party has any control or say in how the investments are managed, including whether to buy or sell specific securities.



A blind trust can be a revocable trust, meaning the trustor can make any changes to the trust, trustee, and terminate the trust. A blind trust can also be an irrevocable trust, which means nothing can be changed once it has been established. Whether the trustor would set up a revocable or irrevocable trust depends on the particular situation and goal of the trust. An irrevocable trust, for example, can be designed so that assets are no longer the legal property of the trustor and thus, preventing creditors or the government, such as Medicaid, from claiming the assets.


   Special Considerations  

There are challenges and issues that can arise with a blind trust, since the trustor establishing the trust is at least aware of the investment mix at the onset, and cannot realistically forget that information when weighing future decisions. The trustors may also set the rules under which the investments are managed and, of course, pick trustees that they are confident will act in a certain way in potential situations. As a result, the efficacy of a blind trust, in truly eliminating conflict of interest, is far from proven. That said, politicians with a large amount of wealth or in high office use blind trusts to show that at least the effort is being taken to establish impartiality. 


   Blind Trust Alternatives  

Establishing a blind trust can be expensive; politicians and executives have other ways to remove potential conflicts of interest without a blind trust. They can sell out of the specific investments, real estate, or private holdings in favor of index funds and bonds. A person could also sell the assets–converting them to cash–while occupying the position of employment. However, the process of selling investments can trigger tax implications and some investments, such as land or real estate, can be difficult to sell. Although blind trusts are helpful, there is no legal structure that can remove all conflicts of interest, nor can they guarantee ethical behavior from the person holding the position or office.


   Examples of Blind Trusts  

Although anyone can set up a blind trust, they are often used to leave money to beneficiaries and to prevent conflicts of interest.


  Estate Planning  

A blind trust might be established during the estate planning process if the trustor doesn't want the beneficiaries to know how much money is in the trust. A blind trust could also be tailored so that the funds go to the beneficiary when the person reaches a certain age or milestone, such as graduating from college.


  Politicians  

Blind trusts are also used when a wealthy individual is elected to a political office, where the investment holdings could potentially create a conflict of interest. The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 requires those holding political offices to disclose all of their assets unless those assets are held in a blind trust.﻿﻿



For example, if a politician owns equity in a company that has a pending regulatory issue, it might create a conflict of interest. The blind trust separates the politician from any trades that are initiated by the trustee or the financial institution acting as the trustee.
What Is a Block Trade?  

A block trade is a large, privately negotiated securities transaction. Block trades are arranged away from public markets to lessen the effect on the security's price. They are usually carried out by hedge funds and institutional investors via investment banks and other intermediaries, though high-net-worth accredited investors may also be eligible to participate.



The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq define a block trade as one involving at least 10,000 shares of stock, or one worth more than $200,000. Most block trades far exceed these minimums.





Key Takeaways

A block trade is a large, privately negotiated securities transaction. Block trades are generally broken up into smaller orders and executed through different brokers to mask the true size.Block trades can be made outside the open market through a private purchase agreement.


   Understanding Block Trades  

A bulk-sized sell order placed on a stock exchange may have an outsized effect on the share price. In contrast, while a block trade negotiated privately will often provide a discount to the market price for the buyer, it will not inform other market participants about the additional supply until the transaction has been publicly recorded.



Block trades not yet publicly disclosed are considered material non-public information, and the financial industry's self-regulatory organization, FINRA, prohibits the disclosure of such information as front running.



Block trading facilities and block houses are specialized intermediaries that can facilitate block trades. Block houses are departments within brokerages that operate dark pools, private exchanges where large buy and sell orders can be matched out of public view. Block houses can also break up large trades on public markets to conceal the scope of additional supply, for example by placing numerous iceberg orders.


   Block Trade Example  

A hedge fund wants to sell 100,000 shares of a small-cap company near the current market price of $10. This is a million-dollar transaction on a company that may only be worth a few hundred million, so the sale would probably push down the price significantly if entered as a single market order. Moreover, the size of the order means it would be executed at progressively worse prices after exhausting demand at the $10 asking price. So the hedge fund would see slippage on the order and the other market participants might pile on, shorting the stock based on the price action and forcing the price down further.



To avoid this, the hedge fund can contact a block house for help. Block house staffers would break up the large trade into manageable chunks. For example, they might split the block trade into 50 offers of 2,000 shares, each posted by a different broker to further disguise their origin.



Alternatively, a broker could find a buyer willing to buy all 100,000 shares at a price arranged outside the open market. This would typically be another institutional investor.
Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   What Is a Blockchain?  

A blockchain is a distributed database or ledger shared among a computer network's nodes. They are best known for their crucial role in cryptocurrency systems for maintaining a secure and decentralized record of transactions, but they are not limited to cryptocurrency uses. Blockchains can be used to make data in any industry immutable—the term used to describe the inability to be altered.



Because there is no way to change a block, the only trust needed is at the point where a user or program enters data. This aspect reduces the need for trusted third parties, which are usually auditors or other humans that add costs and make mistakes.



Since Bitcoin's introduction in 2009, blockchain uses have exploded via the creation of various cryptocurrencies, decentralized finance (DeFi) applications, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and smart contracts.





Key Takeaways

Blockchain is a type of shared database that differs from a typical database in the way it stores information; blockchains store data in blocks linked together via cryptography.Different types of information can be stored on a blockchain, but the most common use for transactions has been as a ledger. In Bitcoin’s case, blockchain is decentralized so that no single person or group has control—instead, all users collectively retain control.Decentralized blockchains are immutable, which means that the data entered is irreversible. For Bitcoin, transactions are permanently recorded and viewable to anyone.


   How Does a Blockchain Work?  

You might be familiar with spreadsheets or databases. A blockchain is somewhat similar because it is a database where information is entered and stored. But the key difference between a traditional database or spreadsheet and a blockchain is how the data is structured and accessed.



A blockchain consists of programs called scripts that conduct the tasks you usually would in a database: Entering and accessing information and saving and storing it somewhere. A blockchain is distributed, which means multiple copies are saved on many machines, and they must all match for it to be valid.



The blockchain collects transaction information and enters it into a block, like a cell in a spreadsheet containing information. Once it is full, the information is run through an encryption algorithm, which creates a hexadecimal number called the hash.



The hash is then entered into the following block header and encrypted with the other information in the block. This creates a series of blocks that are chained together.


  Transaction Process  

Transactions follow a specific process, depending on the blockchain they are taking place on. For example, on Bitcoin's blockchain, if you initiate a transaction using your cryptocurrency wallet—the application that provides an interface for the blockchain—it starts a sequence of events.



In Bitcoin, your transaction is sent to a memory pool, where it is stored and queued until a miner or validator picks it up. Once it is entered into a block and the block fills up with transactions, it is closed and encrypted using an encryption algorithm. Then, the mining begins.













The entire network works simultaneously, trying to "solve" the hash. Each one generates a random hash except for the "nonce," short for number used once.



Every miner starts with a nonce of zero, which is appended to their randomly-generated hash. If that number isn't equal to or less than the target hash, a value of one is added to the nonce, and a new block hash is generated. This continues until a miner generates a valid hash, winning the race and receiving the reward.






Generating random hashes until a specific value is found is the "proof-of-work" you hear so much about—it "proves" the miner did the work. The amount of work it takes to validate the hash is why the Bitcoin network consumes so much computational power and energy.



Once a block is closed, a transaction is complete. However, the block is not considered to be confirmed until five other blocks have been validated. Confirmation takes the network about one hour to complete because it averages just under 10 minutes per block (the first block with your transaction and five following blocks multiplied by 10 equals about 60 minutes).



Not all blockchains follow this process. For instance, the Ethereum network randomly chooses one validator from all users with ether staked to validate blocks, which are then confirmed by the network. This is much faster and less energy intensive than Bitcoin's process.


   Blockchain Decentralization  

A blockchain allows the data in a database to be spread out among several network nodes—computers or devices running software for the blockchain—at various locations. This not only creates redundancy but maintains the fidelity of the data. For example, if someone tries to alter a record at one instance of the database, the other nodes would prevent it from happening. This way, no single node within the network can alter information held within it.



Because of this distribution—and the encrypted proof that work was done—the information and history (like the transactions in cryptocurrency) are irreversible. Such a record could be a list of transactions (such as with a cryptocurrency), but it also is possible for a blockchain to hold a variety of other information like legal contracts, state identifications, or a company’s inventory.


   Blockchain Transparency  

Because of the decentralized nature of the Bitcoin blockchain, all transactions can be transparently viewed by either having a personal node or using blockchain explorers that allow anyone to see transactions occurring live. Each node has its own copy of the chain that gets updated as fresh blocks are confirmed and added. This means that if you wanted to, you could track a bitcoin wherever it goes. 



For example, exchanges have been hacked in the past, resulting in the loss of large amounts of cryptocurrency. While the hackers may have been anonymous—except for their wallet address—the crypto they extracted are easily traceable because the wallet addresses are published on the blockchain.



Of course, the records stored in the Bitcoin blockchain (as well as most others) are encrypted. This means that only the person assigned an address can reveal their identity. As a result, blockchain users can remain anonymous while preserving transparency.


   Is Blockchain Secure?  

Blockchain technology achieves decentralized security and trust in several ways. To begin with, new blocks are always stored linearly and chronologically. That is, they are always added to the “end” of the blockchain. After a block has been added to the end of the blockchain, previous blocks cannot be changed.



A change in any data changes the hash of the block it was in. Because each block contains the previous block's hash, a change in one would change the following blocks. The network would reject an altered block because the hashes would not match.






Not all blockchains are 100% impenetrable. They are distributed ledgers that use code to create the security level they have become known for. If there are vulnerabilities in the coding, they can be exploited.



For instance, imagine that a hacker runs a node on a blockchain network and wants to alter a blockchain and steal cryptocurrency from everyone else. If they were to change their copy, they would have to convince the other nodes that their copy was the valid one.



They would need to control a majority of the network to do this and insert it at just the right moment. This is known as a 51% attack because you need to control more than 50% of the network to attempt it.



Timing would be everything in this type of attack—by the time the hacker takes any action, the network is likely to have moved past the blocks they were trying to alter. This is because the rate at which these networks hash is exceptionally fast—the Bitcoin network hashed at 348.1 exahashes per second (18 zeros) on April 21, 2023.


   Bitcoin vs. Blockchain  

Blockchain technology was first outlined in 1991 by Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta, two researchers who wanted to implement a system where document timestamps could not be tampered with. But it wasn’t until almost two decades later, with the launch of Bitcoin in January 2009, that blockchain had its first real-world application.



The Bitcoin protocol is built on a blockchain. In a research paper introducing the digital currency, Bitcoin’s pseudonymous creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, referred to it as “a new electronic cash system that’s fully peer-to-peer, with no trusted third party.”



The key thing to understand is that Bitcoin uses blockchain as a means to transparently record a ledger of payments or other transactions between parties.


  Blockchain  

Blockchain can be used to immutably record any number of data points. This could be in the form of transactions, votes in an election, product inventories, state identifications, deeds to homes, and much more. 



Currently, tens of thousands of projects are looking to implement blockchains in various ways to help society other than just recording transactions—for example, as a way to vote securely in democratic elections.



The nature of blockchain’s immutability means that fraudulent voting would become far more difficult. For example, a voting system could work such that each country's citizens would be issued a single cryptocurrency or token.



Each candidate would then be given a specific wallet address, and the voters would send their token or crypto to the address of whichever candidate for whom they wish to vote. The transparent and traceable nature of blockchain would eliminate the need for human vote counting and the ability of bad actors to tamper with physical ballots.


   Blockchain vs. Banks  

Blockchains have been heralded as a disruptive force in the finance sector, especially with the functions of payments and banking. However, banks and decentralized blockchains are vastly different.



To see how a bank differs from blockchain, let’s compare the banking system to Bitcoin’s blockchain implementation.






   How Are Blockchains Used?  

As we now know, blocks on Bitcoin’s blockchain store transactional data. Today, more than 23,000 other cryptocurrency systems are running on a blockchain. But it turns out that blockchain is a reliable way of storing data about other types of transactions.



Some companies experimenting with blockchain include Walmart, Pfizer, AIG, Siemens, and Unilever, among others. For example, IBM has created its Food Trust blockchain to trace the journey that food products take to get to their locations.



Why do this? The food industry has seen countless outbreaks of E. coli, salmonella, and listeria; in some cases, hazardous materials were accidentally introduced to foods. In the past, it has taken weeks to find the source of these outbreaks or the cause of sickness from what people are eating.



Using blockchain allows brands to track a food product’s route from its origin, through each stop it makes, to delivery. Not only that, but these companies can also now see everything else it may have come in contact with, allowing the identification of the problem to occur far sooner—potentially saving lives. This is one example of blockchain in practice, but many other forms of blockchain implementation exist.


  Banking and Finance  

Perhaps no industry stands to benefit from integrating blockchain into its business operations more than banking. Financial institutions only operate during business hours, usually five days a week. That means if you try to deposit a check on Friday at 6 p.m., you will likely have to wait until Monday morning to see that money hit your account.



Even if you make your deposit during business hours, the transaction can still take one to three days to verify due to the sheer volume of transactions that banks need to settle. Blockchain, on the other hand, never sleeps.



By integrating blockchain into banks, consumers might see their transactions processed in minutes or seconds—the time it takes to add a block to the blockchain, regardless of holidays or the time of day or week. With blockchain, banks also have the opportunity to exchange funds between institutions more quickly and securely. Given the size of the sums involved, even the few days the money is in transit can carry significant costs and risks for banks.



The settlement and clearing process for stock traders can take up to three days (or longer if trading internationally), meaning that the money and shares are frozen for that period. Blockchain could drastically reduce that time.


  Currency  

Blockchain forms the bedrock for cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. The U.S. dollar is controlled by the Federal Reserve. Under this central authority system, a user’s data and currency are technically at the whim of their bank or government. If a user’s bank is hacked, the client’s private information is at risk.



If the client’s bank collapses or the client lives in a country with an unstable government, the value of their currency may be at risk. In 2008, several failing banks were bailed out—partially using taxpayer money. These are the worries out of which Bitcoin was first conceived and developed.






Blockchain can also give those in countries with unstable currencies or financial infrastructures a more stable currency and financial system. They would have access to more applications and a wider network of individuals and institutions with whom they can do domestic and international business.



By spreading its operations across a network of computers, blockchain allows Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to operate without the need for a central authority. This not only reduces risk but also the processing and transaction fees.



Using cryptocurrency wallets for savings accounts or as a means of payment is especially profound for those without state identification. Some countries may be war-torn or have governments lacking any real identification infrastructure. Citizens of such countries may not have access to savings or brokerage accounts—and, therefore, no way to safely store wealth.


  Healthcare  

Healthcare providers can leverage blockchain to store their patients’ medical records securely. When a medical record is generated and signed, it can be written into the blockchain, which provides patients with the proof and confidence that the record cannot be changed. These personal health records could be encoded and stored on the blockchain with a private key so that they are only accessible to specific individuals, thereby ensuring privacy.


  Property Records  

If you have ever spent time in your local Recorder’s Office, you will know that recording property rights is both burdensome and inefficient. Today, a physical deed must be delivered to a government employee at the local recording office, where it is manually entered into the county’s central database and public index. In the case of a property dispute, claims to the property must be reconciled with the public index.



This process is not just costly and time-consuming, it is also prone to human error, where each inaccuracy makes tracking property ownership less efficient. Blockchain has the potential to eliminate the need for scanning documents and tracking down physical files in a local recording office. If property ownership is stored and verified on the blockchain, owners can trust that their deed is accurate and permanently recorded.



In war-torn countries or areas with little to no government or financial infrastructure and no Recorder’s Office, proving property ownership can be nearly impossible. If a group of people living in such an area can leverage blockchain, then transparent and clear timelines of property ownership could be established.


  Smart Contracts  

A smart contract is a computer code that can be built into the blockchain to facilitate a contract agreement. Smart contracts operate under a set of conditions to which users agree. When those conditions are met, the terms of the agreement are automatically carried out.



Say, for example, that a potential tenant would like to lease an apartment using a smart contract. The landlord agrees to give the tenant the door code to the apartment as soon as the tenant pays the security deposit. The smart contract would automatically send the door code to the tenant when it was paid. It could also be programmed to change the code if rent wasn't paid or other conditions were met.


  Supply Chains  

As in the IBM Food Trust example, suppliers can use blockchain to record the origins of materials that they have purchased. This would allow companies to verify the authenticity of not only their products but also common labels such as “Organic,” “Local,” and “Fair Trade.”



As reported by Forbes, the food industry is increasingly adopting the use of blockchain to track the path and safety of food throughout the farm-to-user journey.


  Voting  

As mentioned above, blockchain could facilitate a modern voting system. Voting with blockchain carries the potential to eliminate election fraud and boost voter turnout, as was tested in the November 2018 midterm elections in West Virginia.



Using blockchain in this way would make votes nearly impossible to tamper with. The blockchain protocol would also maintain transparency in the electoral process, reducing the personnel needed to conduct an election and providing officials with nearly instant results. This would eliminate the need for recounts or any real concern that fraud might threaten the election.


   Pros and Cons of Blockchain  

For all of its complexity, blockchain’s potential as a decentralized form of record-keeping is almost without limit. From greater user privacy and heightened security to lower processing fees and fewer errors, blockchain technology may very well see applications beyond those outlined above. But there are also some disadvantages.





Pros

Improved accuracy by removing human involvement in verification
Cost reductions by eliminating third-party verification
Decentralization makes it harder to tamper with
Transactions are secure, private, and efficient
Transparent technology
Provides a banking alternative and a way to secure personal information for citizens of countries with unstable or underdeveloped governments



Cons

Significant technology cost associated with some blockchains
Low transactions per second
History of use in illicit activities, such as on the dark web
Regulation varies by jurisdiction and remains uncertain
Data storage limitations





   Benefits of Blockchains  
  Accuracy of the Chain  

Transactions on the blockchain network are approved by thousands of computers and devices. This removes almost all people from the verification process, resulting in less human error and an accurate record of information. Even if a computer on the network were to make a computational mistake, the error would only be made to one copy of the blockchain and not be accepted by the rest of the network.


  Cost Reductions  

Typically, consumers pay a bank to verify a transaction or a notary to sign a document. Blockchain eliminates the need for third-party verification—and, with it, their associated costs. For example, business owners incur a small fee when they accept credit card payments because banks and payment-processing companies have to process those transactions. Bitcoin, on the other hand, does not have a central authority and has limited transaction fees.


  Decentralization  

Blockchain does not store any of its information in a central location. Instead, the blockchain is copied and spread across a network of computers. Whenever a new block is added to the blockchain, every computer on the network updates its blockchain to reflect the change.



By spreading that information across a network, rather than storing it in one central database, blockchain becomes more difficult to tamper with.


  Efficient Transactions  

Transactions placed through a central authority can take up to a few days to settle. If you attempt to deposit a check on Friday evening, for example, you may not actually see funds in your account until Monday morning. Financial institutions operate during business hours, usually five days a week—but a blockchain works 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and 365 days a year.



On some blockchains, transactions can be completed in minutes and considered secure after just a few. This is particularly useful for cross-border trades, which usually take much longer because of time zone issues and the fact that all parties must confirm payment processing.


  Private Transactions  

Many blockchain networks operate as public databases, meaning anyone with an internet connection can view a list of the network’s transaction history. Although users can access transaction details, they cannot access identifying information about the users making those transactions. It is a common misperception that blockchain networks like Bitcoin are fully anonymous; they are actually pseudonymous because there is a viewable address that can be associated with a user if the information gets out.


  Secure Transactions  

Once a transaction is recorded, its authenticity must be verified by the blockchain network. After the transaction is validated, it is added to the blockchain block. Each block on the blockchain contains its unique hash and the unique hash of the block before it. Therefore, the blocks cannot be altered once the network confirms them.


  Transparency  

Most blockchains are entirely open-source software. This means that everyone can view its code. This gives auditors the ability to review cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin for security. However, it also means there is no real authority on who controls Bitcoin’s code or how it is edited. Because of this, anyone can suggest changes or upgrades to the system. If a majority of the network users agree that the new version of the code with the upgrade is sound and worthwhile, then Bitcoin can be updated.


  Banking the Unbanked  

Perhaps the most profound facet of blockchain and cryptocurrency is the ability for anyone, regardless of ethnicity, gender, location, or cultural background to use it. According to The World Bank, an estimated 1.3 billion adults do not have bank accounts or any means of storing their money or wealth. Moreover, nearly all of these individuals live in developing countries where the economy is in its infancy and entirely dependent on cash. 



These people are often paid in physical cash. They then need to store this physical cash in hidden locations in their homes or other places, incentivizing robbers or violence. While not impossible to steal, crypto makes it more difficult for would-be thieves.



Blockchains of the future are also looking for solutions to not only be a unit of account for wealth storage but also to store medical records, property rights, and a variety of other legal contracts.


   Drawbacks of Blockchains  
  Technology Cost  

Although blockchain can save users money on transaction fees, the technology is far from free. For example, the Bitcoin network's proof-of-work system to validate transactions consumes vast amounts of computational power. In the real world, the energy consumed by the millions of devices on the Bitcoin network is more than Pakistan consumes annually.



Some solutions to these issues are beginning to arise. For example, bitcoin-mining farms have been set up to use solar power, excess natural gas from fracking sites, or energy from wind farms.


  Speed and Data Inefficiency  

Bitcoin is a perfect case study for the possible inefficiencies of blockchain. Bitcoin’s PoW system takes about 10 minutes to add a new block to the blockchain. At that rate, it’s estimated that the blockchain network can only manage about three transactions per second (TPS). Although other cryptocurrencies, such as Ethereum, perform better than Bitcoin, blockchain still limits them. Legacy brand Visa, for context, can process 65,000 TPS.



Solutions to this issue have been in development for years. There are currently blockchains that boast more than 30,000 TPS. Ethereum's merge between its main net and beacon chain (Sep. 15, 2022) is predicted to allow up to 100,000 TPS after it rolls out a series of upgrades that include sharding—a splitting of the database so that more devices (phones, tablets, and laptops) can run Ethereum. This is expected to increase network participation, reduce congestion, and increase transaction speeds.



The other issue is that each block can only hold so much data. The block size debate has been and continues to be one of the most pressing issues for the scalability of blockchains going forward.


  Illegal Activity  

While confidentiality on the blockchain network protects users from hacks and preserves privacy, it also allows for illegal trading and activity on the blockchain network. The most cited example of blockchain being used for illicit transactions is probably the Silk Road, an online dark web illegal-drug and money laundering marketplace operating from February 2011 until October 2013, when the FBI shut it down. 



The dark web allows users to buy and sell illegal goods without being tracked by using the Tor Browser and make illicit purchases in Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies. This is in stark contrast to U.S. regulations, which require financial service providers to obtain information about their customers when they open an account. They are supposed to verify the identity of each customer and confirm that they do not appear on any list of known or suspected terrorist organizations.






Illicit activity accounted for only 0.24% of all cryptocurrency transactions in 2022.



This system can be seen as both a pro and a con. It gives anyone access to financial accounts, but allows criminals to transact more easily. Many have argued that the good uses of crypto, like banking the unbanked world, outweigh the bad uses of cryptocurrency, especially when most illegal activity is still accomplished through untraceable cash.


  Regulation  

Many in the crypto space have expressed concerns about government regulation over cryptocurrencies. While it is getting increasingly difficult and near impossible to end something like Bitcoin as its decentralized network grows, governments could theoretically make it illegal to own cryptocurrencies or participate in their networks. 



This concern has grown smaller over time as large companies like PayPal begin to allow customers to use cryptocurrencies on their e-commerce platforms.




What Is a Blockchain in Simple Terms?
Simply put, a blockchain is a shared database or ledger. Pieces of data are stored in data structures known as blocks, and each network node has a replica of the entire database. Security is ensured since the majority will not accept this change if somebody tries to edit or delete an entry in one copy of the ledger.




How Many Blockchains Are There?
The number of live blockchains is growing every day at an ever-increasing pace. As of 2023, there are more than 23,000 active cryptocurrencies based on blockchain, with several hundred more non-cryptocurrency blockchains.




What’s the Difference Between a Private Blockchain and a Public Blockchain?
A public blockchain, also known as an open or permissionless blockchain, is one where anybody can join the network freely and establish a node. Because of their open nature, these blockchains must be secured with cryptography and a consensus system like proof of work (PoW). A private or permissioned blockchain, on the other hand, requires each node to be approved before joining. Because nodes are considered to be trusted, the layers of security do not need to be as robust.


   The Bottom Line  

With many practical applications for the technology already being implemented and explored, blockchain is finally making a name for itself in no small part because of Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. As a buzzword on the tongue of every investor in the nation, blockchain stands to make business and government operations more accurate, efficient, secure, and cheap, with fewer middlemen.



As we head into the third decade of blockchain, it’s no longer a question of if legacy companies will catch on to the technology—it’s a question of when. Today, we see a proliferation of NFTs and the tokenization of assets. As a result, the next decades will prove to be a significant period of growth for blockchain.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own any of the assets discussed here.
What Is Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS)?  

Blockchain-as-a-service (BaaS) is the third-party creation and management of cloud-based networks for companies in the business of building blockchain applications. These third-party services are a relatively new development in the growing field of blockchain technology. The application of blockchain technology has moved well beyond its best-known use in cryptocurrency transactions and has broadened to address secure transactions of all kinds. As a result, there is a demand for hosting services.





Key Takeaways

Blockchain-as-a-service (BaaS) refers to third-party cloud-based infrastructure and management for companies building and operating blockchain apps.BaaS functions like a sort of web host, running the back-end operation for a block-chain based app or platform.BaaS may be the catalyst that leads to the widespread adoption of blockchain technology.


   Understanding Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS)  

BaaS is based on the software as a service (SaaS) model and works in a similar fashion. It allows customers to leverage cloud-based solutions to build, host, and operate their own blockchain apps and related functions on the blockchain. At the same time, the cloud-based service provider keeps the infrastructure agile and operational.



As a development in the greater blockchain ecosystem, BaaS is seen as boosting blockchain adoption across businesses.



Major players in the BaaS space include:



Microsoft partnered with ConsenSys to introduce Ethereum blockchain-as-a-service on Microsoft Azure in 2015.Amazon has introduced Amazon Managed Blockchain, a service that "makes it easy to create and manage scalable blockchain networks" using open-source frameworks, including Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric.R3, a consortium of global financial institutions that produced a distributed financial ledger called Corda.PayStand, which specializes in sending and receiving payments between companies.



Consumers and businesses are increasingly willing to adapt to blockchain technology. However, the technical complexities and operational overhead involved in creating, configuring, and operating a blockchain and maintaining its infrastructure often act as a barrier.



BaaS offers an external service provider to set up all the necessary blockchain technology and infrastructure for a fee. Once created, the provider continues to handle the complex back-end operations for the client.



The BaaS operator typically offers support activities, such as bandwidth management, suitable allocation of resources, hosting requirements, and data security features. The BaaS operator frees the client to focus on the core job: the functionality of the blockchain.


   Example of Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS)  

Below is a graphic demonstrating the working model of Blockchain-as-a-Service Hyperledger Cello, a BaaS-like blockchain module toolkit and utility system under the Hyperledger project.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



In fact, a BaaS’ provider's role is similar to that of a web hosting provider. The website creators create and run all the website content on their own personal computers. They may hire support staff or sign up with an external hosting provider like Amazon Web Services or HostGator. These third-party companies take care of the infrastructure and maintenance issues.



BaaS may be the catalyst that leads to a wider and deeper penetration of blockchain technology across various industry sectors and businesses. Instead of creating and running their own blockchains, a business, large or small, can now simply outsource the technically complex work and focus on its core activities.
A blockchain wallet is a digital wallet that allows users to store and manage their Bitcoin, Ether, and other cryptocurrencies. Blockchain Wallet can also refer to the wallet service provided by Blockchain, a software company founded by Peter Smith and Nicolas Cary. A blockchain wallet allows transfers in cryptocurrencies and the ability to convert them back into a user's local currency.





Key Takeaways

Broadly speaking, a blockchain wallet is a digital wallet that allows users to store, manage, and trade their cryptocurrencies.Blockchain Wallet is also the name of a specific wallet service provided by the company Blockchain. This is an E-wallet that allows individuals to store and transfer cryptocurrencies.Blockchain Wallet users can manage their balances of Bitcoin, Ether, and other crypto assets.Blockchain Wallet charges dynamic fees, meaning that the transaction fees can be different based on factors such as transaction size.Blockchain Wallet has a number of security features to prevent theft, including by company insiders.


   Understanding Blockchain Wallet  

E-wallets allow individuals to store cryptocurrencies and other digital assets. In the case of Blockchain Wallet, users can manage their balances of various cryptocurrencies such as the well-known Bitcoin and Ether as well as stellar, Tether, and Paxos Standard.



Creating an e-wallet with Blockchain Wallet is free, and the account setup process is done online. Individuals must provide an email address and password that will be used to manage the account, and the system will send an automated email requesting that the account be verified.



Once the wallet is created, the user is provided with a Wallet ID, which is a unique identifier similar to a bank account number. Wallet holders can access their e-wallet by logging into the Blockchain website, or by downloading and accessing a mobile application.



The Blockchain Wallet interface shows the current wallet balance for crypto-assets and the user’s most recent transactions. Users can also access the price charts and see the value of the funds in the chosen local currency of the user. There is also an educational Did You Know section sharing crypto facts and news.


   How a Blockchain Wallet Works  

Users can send a request to another party for a specific amount of bitcoin or other crypto-assets, and the system generates a unique address that can be sent to a third party or converted into a Quick Response code or QR code for short. A QR code is similar to a barcode, which stores financial information and can be read by a digital device.



A unique address is generated each time the user makes a request. Users can also send crypto-assets when someone provides them with a unique address. The send-and-receive process is similar to sending or receiving funds through PayPal but uses cryptocurrency instead. PayPal is an online payment provider that acts as a go-between for customers and their banks and credit cards by facilitating online transfers through financial institutions.



Users can also exchange Bitcoin for other crypto-assets and visa-versa, known as swapping. This practice is an easy way to switch out crypto without leaving the security of the Blockchain Wallet. Users are shown a quote indicating how much they will receive based on the current exchange rate, with the rate changing depending on how long the user takes to complete the transaction. Swaps should take a couple of hours while the transactions are added to each currency’s blockchain. However, if it takes longer than six hours, users should contact customer support.



Blockchain Wallet only allows six crypto-assets for swapping: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, Stellar Lumens, Tether, USD Digital, Wrapped-DGLD.



Users can also buy or sell crypto through the Buy Crypto interface available to Blockchain Wallet. Buy and sell services are not available in all locations. To make a purchase, a user can either transfer funds from a bank, use a credit or debit card, or use the available cash balance. There is a daily limit of $25,000 and a weekly limit of $100,000 as well as a minimum buy order of $5 and a maximum buy order of $25,000.


   Blockchain Wallet Fees  

However, it's important to note that the Blockchain Wallet uses a process they call dynamic fees, meaning that the fee charged per transaction can be different based on various factors. Both the transaction size and the conditions of the network at the time of the transaction can greatly impact the size of the fee. Only so many transactions can be processed within a block by the high-powered computers called miners. The miners typically process the transactions that have the highest fees first since it's financially advantageous to them.



Blockchain Wallet offers a priority fee, which could possibly get the transaction processed within an hour. There's also a regular fee, which is cheaper but the transaction would likely take more than an hour. Fees can also be customized by the customer. However, if the customer sets the fee too low, the transfer or transaction could be delayed or rejected.


   Blockchain Wallet Security  

Wallet security is an important consideration for users, as a compromised account may result in users losing control of their assets. Blockchain Wallet has several levels of security to protect user funds from any possible attacker, including the company itself.


  Passwords  

Like other digital services, Blockchain Wallet accounts require passwords for the users' protection. However, the Blockchain company does not store user passwords, and cannot reset the password if lost. This measure prevents company insiders from being able to steal cryptocurrencies. If a user forgets or loses their password, the account can only be recovered with a mnemonic seed.


  Mnemonic Seeds  

A mnemonic seed is a random string of English words that function similarly to a password. If a user loses access to their phone or device, the seed can be used to restore the wallet, including any cryptocurrencies. Like passwords, the Blockchain company does not store users' mnemonic seeds. These seeds follow an industry standard, meaning the wallets can be recovered even if the company goes out of business.


  Optional Security Methods  

In addition to the protections outlined above, there are also several optional security measures that are not required but can help secure user wallets against outside attacks. To reduce the danger of phishing, the Blockchain Wallet allows users to use two-factor authentication or IP whitelists to prevent log-ins from unfamiliar devices. It is also possible to block access through the Tor network, thereby preventing prospective hackers from disguising their IP addresses.
What Is Bloomberg?



Bloomberg is a global provider of financial news and information, including real-time and historical price data, financial data, trading news, and analyst coverage. Its services, which span its platform, television, radio, and print, offer professional analysis tools for financial professionals.



One of Bloomberg's key revenue earners is the Bloomberg Terminal, an integrated platform that streams price data, financials, news, and trading data to more than 325,000 customers worldwide.





Key Takeaways

Bloomberg is a media conglomerate and provider of financial news and information, research, and financial data.Bloomberg was founded by Michael Bloomberg in 1981 as a provider of financial analytics and information.The Bloomberg Terminal provides snapshots and detailed information about financial markets.


   History of Bloomberg  

Bloomberg was founded by Michael Bloomberg in 1981 as a provider of financial analytics and information. The company started with its flagship Bloomberg Terminal and grew to over 10,000 installed units within its first ten years of operation. It then implemented Bloomberg News, an international financial news provider.



Subscriptions for the news source grew to 150,000 over the next 10 years, and the company then Bloomberg Tradebook, allowing people to trade directly through Bloomberg. The company provides financial products and media services.



Bloomberg grew to a leading financial company with over 325,000 subscriptions to its professional services, almost 1 million global circulations of Bloomberg Businessweek, and over 150 news bureaus internationally.


   The Bloomberg Terminal  

The Bloomberg Terminal, also known as the Bloomberg Professional Service, is a software system and computer interface that gives financial professionals the ability to track and analyze breaking news across the globe.



The Bloomberg Terminal is geared toward large, institutional investors, and facilitates communication, information, and trade between institutions. The average customer pays upwards of $20,000 per year for the service.



To support this massive network of financial information, data encryption, messaging, and trading, Bloomberg employs over 4,000 computer engineers around the globe. These engineers make improvements to the Bloomberg Professional Service so it continues to provide the most comprehensive array of financial capabilities open to the general public.



Bloomberg implements aspects of current tech trends, such as its adoption of open-source technologies like Hadoop big-data framework and Solar search platform. In May 2015, Bloomberg opened up a technology hub in San Francisco, moving the majority of its engineers away from its New York headquarter offices.




What Information Does a Bloomberg Offer?
Bloomberg provides online information on markets, technology, politics, and opinion. Bloomberg Live is the largest newsroom in the world using Bloomberg Intelligence and Bloomberg Global Data to enable moderators and speakers to produce compelling news conversations.




What Customer Tools Does Bloomberg Offer?
Bloomberg provides technological tools for its clients. From the Bloomberg Terminal to flexible enterprise solutions, Bloomberg helps financial market players integrate their systems, and automate their workflows that inform their decision-making.




How Does Bloomberg Gather Information?
With 2,700 journalists and analysts in 120 locations, Bloomberg publishes over 5,000 new stories a day across multiple platforms.


   The Bottom Line  

Bloomberg is a provider of financial news and information, research, and financial data, founded by Michael Bloomberg in 1981. The Bloomberg Terminal provides snapshots and detailed information about financial markets across global markets. Its media platform Bloomberg Live is considered one of the largest global newsrooms.
What Is a Bloomberg Terminal?  

A Bloomberg terminal is a computer system that allows investors to access the Bloomberg data service, which provides real-time global financial data, news feeds, and messages. Investors can also use the Bloomberg terminal's trading system to facilitate the placement of financial transactions, such as stock and options trades.



Bloomberg charges an annual subscription fee, with the price for the proprietary electronic trading system at an estimated $27,660 per year, as of 2020.





Key Takeaways

Developed by businessman Michael Bloomberg, a Bloomberg terminal is a popular hardware and software system that allows investors access to real-time market data, investing analytics, and proprietary trading platforms.Because of their relatively high cost, Bloomberg terminals are typically used by large institutional investors, portfolio managers, and financial analysts.Bloomberg offers investors independent stock research from more than 1,500 resources, charting tools, and trade analytics for both the buy-side and sell-side.Bloomberg's biggest competitor is Thomson Reuters—which offers Eikon, a set of software products designed to help investors analyze and trade the financial markets.Both Bloomberg and Reuters are seeing competition from other companies that offer similar products at a lower price, most notably Capital IQ and FactSet.


   How a Bloomberg Terminal Works  

Bloomberg terminals are one of the main product offerings from Bloomberg L.P. They are one of the most heavily used and highly regarded professional investment systems to be created for the financial marketplace. Institutional investors are the typical customers of this product since the relatively high ongoing cost makes it unfeasible for individual investors with relatively small amounts of capital to purchase.



The system provides news, price quotes, and messaging across its proprietary secure network. It is well-known among the financial community for its black interface, which is not optimized for user experience but has become a recognizable trait of the service. It's not uncommon to see Bloomberg's rather bland visuals carried into their television station, although they round their media empire out with visually rich content in their flagship magazine Bloomberg Businessweek.















Bloomberg Machine.
Bloomberg, LP





325,000

The approximate number of subscribers worldwide of the Bloomberg terminal.


   Benefits of a Bloomberg Terminal  

The Bloomberg terminal was developed in 1982 by New York businessman Michael Bloomberg. The terminal was originally a "piece of dedicated, all-in-one hardware for connecting to a network." Now, the terminal operates on any PC via Windows-compatible software, a custom Bloomberg keyboard, and fingerprint scanner. Based on design, the system is compatible with the popular Excel program, a very important aspect of the system for those in the finance industry.



Bloomberg also offers users access to the application online and through mobile devices, via its Bloomberg Anywhere service. For portfolio managers and brokers, having the ability to access real-time market information from almost anywhere in the world is an incredibly convenient and important advantage of a Bloomberg subscription.



Bloomberg's instant messaging service has become popular among traders, who use it to post quotes, updates on trades, and news about market activity. The tools included in the Bloomberg terminal are widely used by portfolio managers, sell-side finance professionals, and buy-side analysts. Bloomberg's data sets are comprehensive and quickly updated to reflect current market activity. Bloomberg's treasure trove of fixed income data appeals to bond traders.


   Bloomberg Terminal Competitors  

The largest competitor to the Bloomberg's Terminal is Thomson Reuters, which started offering its Reuters 3000 Xtra electronic trading platform in 1999. Then in 2010, they launched the Eikon platform, which officially replaced its predecessor in July 2012. In 2018, Thomson Reuters completed a deal with the private equity firm Blackstone, selling a 55% stake in the company for approximately $17 billion in gross cash proceeds.



Bloomberg and Thomson Reuters split the market share in by 2010, each coming in at around one-third of the market. In 2018, Bloomberg's market share remained at around one-third compared to Thomson Reuters' drop to 22% market share. In 2018, Thomson Reuters sold its financial data and analysis platform to Blackstone Group under the rebranded name "Refinitiv," and announced a renewed focus on enhancing the firm's flagship products, the Eikon desktop platform and the Elektron data platform.



Refinitiv was later sold to the London Stock Exchange (LSE) Group. Bloomberg still commanded a one-third market share as of 2022, with Refinitiv holding its own at 19%. The rivalry between Bloomberg and its competitors continues, as competitive pressure from smaller firms that offer financial data and analysis at a much lower price point. Two such firms are S&P Capital IQ and FactSet. The proliferation of big data, analytics, and machine learning look to cut into Bloomberg's stranglehold on the financial data space.




Can You Trade Directly From a Bloomberg Terminal?
Yes, you can place a wide range of order types and trade from the Bloomberg Terminal. The Bloomberg Terminal can serve as a complete end-to-end trading system across a wide range of markets and financial products, such as trading stocks and options. 




How Much Does a Bloomberg Terminal Cost?
The Bloomberg Terminal is only available as a subscription service and can run around $2,020 per month, or $24,240 for a year if there are two or more licenses. For a single subscription the cost is $27,660 per year. There are discounts available for academic licenses by universities for purposes of education and research.




What Are Some Alternatives to the Bloomberg Terminal?
While the Bloomberg Terminal remains the dominant technology platform in the financial world for market data, analysis, and breaking headlines, several other competitors exist. According to Investopedia's own reviewing, among the best include:Best Overall: FactSetBest Free Terminal: KoyfinBest for Financial Data and Analytics: Refinitiv EikonBest for Live Chat: SymphonyBest for Data Visualization: YChartsBest for Market Research: AlphaSense




Can I Invest in Bloomberg's Company?
No, Bloomberg, LP, the maker of the Bloomberg Terminal (owned by billionaire and former NYC mayor Michael Bloomberg), is a privately-held company.
What Is a Blotter?  

A blotter (also called a deal blotter or trade blotter) is a physical or digital record of all trades made over a period of time (usually one trading day) along with their relevant details.





Key Takeaways

A blotter is a detailed record of one's trading activity and history.Clearing firms and regulatory agencies like the SEC use trade blotters to adjust or correct outtrades and to detect instances of illegal trading.A blotter can also be used by traders to evaluate and analyze trading positions at the end of a day.


   Understanding Blotter  

The purpose of a trade blotter is to carefully document trades so that they can be reviewed and confirmed by a trader or brokerage firm. The blotter is mainly used in the stock market, foreign exchange market, and the bond market. It can be customized based on the needs of the user. A trade blotter is also used in the options and commodity market.



The details of a trade will include such things as the time, price, order size, and a specification of whether it was a buy or sell order. This serves as an audit trail of transactions and is helpful to review if a particular trading strategy utilized was successful.



While blotters used to be written down on large boards or paper spreadsheets, today they are usually created through trading software programs that automatically record the trades made through a data feed.



A broker usually provides a blotter to its traders as a software program. It includes what security was traded, the time of trade, the quantity and price of sale or purchase, the ECN market the trade occurred over, and whether it was a buy, sell, or short order.



The blotter also indicates whether a trade was settled appropriately and includes orders that were entered but canceled before being filled. The trader can customize what details are to be shown on the blotter. A broker uses a blotter to keep a record of all transactions in the event that any issue with a trade arises.


   Blotter Usage  

A blotter can be used with or in place of a trading journal by traders who utilize it to improve their trading techniques and strategies. At the end of a trading day, traders will usually use the blotter to review how well they performed. They can sort through the blotter to review areas in which they could have performed better, such as timing with entries and/or exits.



Compliance departments and regulators, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), also sort the blotter to detect whether any illegal trading has been done. The sorting can be done in numerous ways to reveal any discrepancies in trading. During an SEC audit, trading blotters are used by firms to show a record of their trades by type of investment. A separate trading blotter will be used for equities, for example, and another one for fixed-income securities, and so on.



If some trades were carried out on stocks on the watchlist, or restricted trading list, this might indicate insider trading. Blotters might also reveal that some portfolio managers are showing favoritism to select clients if the following (or other information) is revealed:



Certain client accounts on the blotter frequently have profitable trades.Client accounts have considerably different purchase or sale prices of the same security.Certain types of accounts that command the highest commission fees are prioritized over other accounts in trading.



Furthermore, a portfolio manager involved in an investment strategy that deviates from the strategy disclosed to clients may be found out through a blotter. One example of a red flag: when a supposed buy and hold investment portfolio actually has only short-term traded securities.



Any unusual trading activity highlighted on a blotter will be investigated further to determine whether any wrongdoing was carried out.


   Blotter Example  

Let's say that investment firm ABC is preparing for an SEC audit. It separates out its trades by type of investment and generates a trading blotter for each investment for the time period requested by the SEC. Each spreadsheet (usually using Excel) contains details of the trade as shown below.





















Example of a Blotter Template




Client name
Trade name
Settlement Date
Buy/Sell
CUSIP
SecuritySymbol
SecurityDesc.
Quantity
Unit Price
Principal/Proceeds
TotalCommission
Fees
Net Proceeds
Broker


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






In the case of fixed-income securities, such as bonds, an additional column called "Accrued Interest" is added to the sheet.
What Is a Blue Book?  

The Blue Book or Kelley Blue Book is a guidebook that compiles and quotes prices for new and used automobiles and other vehicles of all makes, models, and types. First published in 1926 by Los Angeles car dealer Les Kelley, the Blue Book was originally only available to those in the automotive industry, but both a consumer edition and an online edition was made available in the 1990s for the general public. The Blue Book provides a fair market range reflecting an estimated range of prices car buyers will pay for a specific car based on make, model, style, and year.





Key Takeaways

The Blue Book, also known as the Kelley Blue Book, is a popular and trusted guide for automotive price quotes in North America.Blue Books show car buyers and sellers what prices others have paid to acquire vehicles of the same make, model, year, and comparable mileage and use.The Blue Book analyzes the private party value, trade-in value, suggested retail value, certified pre-owned (CPO) value, and many other prices for used cars.Blue Books can also help car buyers determine the potential future costs of car ownership, such as the costs of fuel, maintenance, repairs, and insurance.


   Understanding the Blue Book  

Blue Book has become the premier appraisal guide for vehicle price quotes in North America. Car sellers and car buyers will consult the Blue Book to determine the resale value of used cars. Kelley Blue Book also provides an actual cash value for vehicles. This can be used to check your insurance company's valuation should you get in a wreck, and potentially negotiate with them.



The Blue Book analyzes the private party value, trade-in value, suggested retail value, and certified pre-owned (CPO) value for used cars. The new car Blue Book shows what consumers are currently paying for new cars.






Over the decades, Blue Book pricing guides have been published for a variety of markets—including guides for motorcycles, travel trailers, campers, ATVs, snowmobiles, and manufactured housing.


   How Blue Books Are Used  

Blue Books show buyers and sellers of automobiles what prices others have paid—the so-called fair purchase price—to acquire vehicles of the same make, model, year, and comparable mileage and use. Furthermore, Blue Books can detail the anticipated costs associated with a vehicle such as fuel, maintenance, repairs, insurance, and financing, along with the anticipated depreciation of its value over time. That way, buyers can see the potential cost to own the vehicle five years out from the date it is acquired.


   How the Blue Book Determines Car Prices  

The fair purchase price listed in the Blue Book is established to show the price other consumers typically pay for the same vehicle. These prices are adjusted based on the region where the transactions take place from new-vehicle purchases that occur across the country. The prices are adjusted on a recurring basis to account for changes in market conditions.



The Blue Book does not show the lowest prices paid in the market for vehicles, but rather the going price that a vehicle currently sells for. The prices in the Blue Book are set by gathering data on thousands of consumer vehicle purchase prices. This is coupled with data taken from national vehicle registration databases. Kelley Blue Book reviews the aggregate information each week. The company uses a proprietary algorithm to analyze pricing data, historical trends, location, time of year, and economic conditions to come up with the value ranges it compiles in the Blue Book.


   Special Considerations  

Originated by the Kelley Blue Book Company, which was acquired by AutoTrader.com and Cox Automotive, the guidebook is not to be confused with other titles referred to as “blue books,” such as the Social Security Blue Book that lists disabling impairments.



In addition to the Blue Book, there are several other resources car buyers and sellers can consult to research car pricing. J.D. Power and Consumer Reports both offer consumers a variety of resources, including data on new car prices, used car book value, and vehicle history reports. For those planning to rely on a loan for financing a vehicle purchase, an auto loan calculator is another tool worth adding to their arsenal.
What Is a Blue Chip?  

A blue chip is a nationally or internationally recognized, well-established, and financially sound company that is publicly traded. Blue chips generally sell high-quality, widely accepted products and services.



Blue chip companies have reputable brands that have been built and maintained over many years. That and the fact that they have weathered multiple downturns in the economy make them stable companies to have in a portfolio.



Blue chip companies operate profitably despite adverse economic conditions, which helps to contribute to their long records of stable and reliable growth.





Key Takeaways

A blue chip stock refers to the shares of an established, profitable, and well-recognized corporation.Blue chips are characterized by a large market capitalization, a listing on a major stock exchange, and a history of reliable growth and dividend payments.Blue chip stocks are seen as relatively safe investments, with a proven track record of success and stable growth.Although blue chips are reliably stable, they are unlikely to generate the same high returns as potentially riskier investments.Despite their stability, blue chip stocks can experience volatility and failure, as did some during the 2007-2008 financial crisis.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Blue Chips  

The term "blue chip" was first used in 1923 by Oliver Gingold, an employee of Dow Jones, to describe stocks that traded at $200 or more per share. It relates to poker chips of blue, white, and red, with the blue chips having the greatest value.



Today, blue chip stocks aren't necessarily stocks with a high price tag. More accurately, they are shares of high-quality companies in healthy financial condition that have withstood the tests of time.



A blue chip stock is generally a component of the most reputable market indexes or averages, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 and the Nasdaq-100 in the United States, the TSX-60 in Canada, and the FTSE Index in the United Kingdom. They are usually listed on major stock exchanges, such as the NYSE and the Nasdaq.



How big a company needs to be to qualify for blue chip status is open to debate. A generally accepted benchmark is a market capitalization of $10 billion, although market or sector leaders can be companies of all sizes. 



Many conservative investors with low risk profiles or nearing retirement may prefer blue chip stocks. They can offer capital preservation and consistent dividend payments for income and protection against inflation.



In his book The Intelligent Investor, Benjamin Graham suggests that conservative investors look for companies that have paid dividends consistently for 20 years or more.



The Dividend Aristocrat stock list published by Standard and Poor’s comprises large-cap blue chip companies in the S&P 500 that have increased dividends every year for the last 25 years.


   Examples of Blue Chip Stocks  

A blue chip company can be a multinational firm that has operated successfully for a number of years, is a dominant leader in its industry, and is widely recognized.



Some examples include:



Coca-ColaBerkshire HathawayAmgenUnitedHealth GroupPepsiCoNikeProctor & GambleChevronWalmartIBMMcDonald’sCaterpillar






The name "blue chip" comes from the game of poker in which the blue chips have the highest value.


   Characteristics of Blue Chip Stocks  

Blue chip stocks are seen as less volatile investments than shares in companies without blue chip status because of their noteworthy institutional profile and longstanding financial health.
Blue chips are highly liquid since they are frequently traded in the market by individual and institutional investors alike. Therefore, investors who need cash can feel confident that there will be buyers for their shares.
Blue chip companies are also characterized as having little to no debt, large market capitalization, stable debt-to-equity ratio, and high return on equity (ROE) and return on assets (ROA).
Solid balance sheet fundamentals and high liquidity have earned blue chip stocks the investment-grade credit rating.
While dividend payments are not necessary for a stock to be considered a blue chip, most blue chips have long records of paying stable or rising dividends.
An investor can track the performance of blue chip stocks through a blue chip index, which can also be seen as an indicator of industry or economic performance.


   Blue Chips As Safe Investments  

Over the years, a blue chip company will have survived financial challenges and difficult market cycles. It will have turned in a steady return and typically paid dividends year in and year out. As a result, it can be perceived as a safe investment.



However, this doesn't make it bulletproof. The bankruptcies of General Motors and Lehman Brothers, as well as a number of leading European banks, during the global recession of 2007-2009 show that even the best companies may struggle during periods of extreme stress.



Blue chip stocks can be appropriate for the core holdings of a large portfolio. But they shouldn't be the only investments. A diversified portfolio usually has some allocation of bonds and cash, in addition to stocks. Moreover, a portfolio's allocation to stocks can be diversified among large-caps, mid-caps and small-caps, as well as domestic and international stocks.



Younger investors can generally tolerate the risk of having a larger percentage of their portfolios in growth stocks (which include some blue chips) because they have years to invest and recover from market mishaps. Older investors may choose to focus more on capital preservation by putting a larger percentage of their investments in bonds and cash.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Blue Chip Stocks  
  Advantages  

Low Risk: As industry leaders with reliable cash flows and long histories of paying their debts, blue chip companies are considered to be low risk. They are unlikely to suffer from a sudden credit or liquidity crunch.



Reliable Return: Blue chip companies typically provide reliable growth potential as well as consistent dividend payments.



Low Volatility: Due to their well-tested business models, established operations, dependable revenue, and long-lived brands, blue chips are seen as stable companies/stocks.



Less Effort: The dependability and lower volatility that they offer can mean less need for concern and monitoring.


  Disadvantages  

Lower Returns: While returns can be reliable, well-established, mature companies such as blue chips offer more modest returns than, for instance, smaller startups that have room for greater and more rapid growth.



More Expensive: Because of their lower risk, reliable return potential, and lower volatility, blue chips tend to be in greater demand and, thus, more expensive than stocks of other companies of comparable size.




Pros and Cons of Blue Chip Stocks

Pros

Lower risk than other stocks.
Lower volatility.
Reliable returns and dividends.



Cons

Lower returns than less established companies.
Less room to grow, meaning that they are unlikely to see large gains.
Expensive due to high demand.





   How to Buy Blue Chip Stocks  

Investors can buy individual blue chip stocks through a broker. They can also invest in blue chips by buying a fund that targets large-cap companies or market leaders. Many of these companies may be considered blue chips, but investors may also gain useful exposure to other companies.



Investors can also buy mutual funds and ETFs that specifically target blue chip companies, giving them exposure to an entire basket of blue chip stocks with a single investment. Most asset managers, including Fidelity and BlackRock, offer one or more blue chip-focused funds.




What Are Some Blue Chip Stocks?
Common examples of blue chip stocks are market leaders like IBM, Coca-Cola, and McDonald's. These are companies with a long track record of steady growth and low volatility, suggesting that they are unlikely to face major problems in the near future. Blue chips are characterized by a high credit rating, large market capitalization, a listing on the NYSE or another major stock exchange, and are often listed in a major stock market index.




What Is a Blue Chip NFT?
A "blue chip NFT" is a digital artwork or collectible issued by one of the more reputable players in the market for non-fungible tokens. Because these companies are relatively well-established in the NFT space, they are considered less risky than some of their upstart competitors. However, because digital assets represent a new and risky market, it may be a stretch to apply the blue chip label to such a speculative asset.




How Do You Invest in Blue Chip Stocks?
You can invest in blue chip stocks through a stock brokerage such as Fidelity or Charles Schwab. Simply search for the company's ticker symbol in the broker's stock screener. In addition, many asset managers also run mutual funds or index funds that specifically target blue chip securities, making it easy to invest in a basket of such companies.




Where Do Blue Chip Stocks Get Their Name?
The term "blue chip" comes from the game of poker, where blue chips are usually the most valuable ones on the table. It was first used by Oliver Gingold, an employee at Dow Jones, who observed that certain stocks reliably traded above $200 per share. Nowadays, some blue chips trade in the thousands per share.


   The Bottom Line  

"Blue chip" is an informal term for the most reliable and valuable companies on the market. These are usually companies with a long track record of financial stability. They are usually leaders within their industry. For that reason, they are often sought after and considered low-risk investments.
What Is a Blue Chip Stock?  

A blue chip stock is stock issued by a large, well-established, financially-sound company with an excellent reputation. Normally, such companies have operated for many years, have dependable earnings, and usually pay dividends to investors.



A blue chip company typically has a market capitalization in the billions. It's generally the market leader or among the top three companies in its sector, and, more often than not, is a household name.



For all of these reasons, blue chip stocks can make good investments and are among the most popular stock purchases for investors. Some examples of blue chip stocks are IBM Corp., Coca-Cola Co., Microsoft, American Express, McDonald's, and Boeing Co.





Key Takeaways

Blue chip companies are large, stable companies with excellent reputations, and often include big household names.Blue chip stocks can be smart additions to a portfolio, thanks to their reliable financial returns.Many investors turn to blue chips for their longstanding, rising dividends.Many investors believe that blue chips can survive market challenges of many kinds; while this may be largely true, it is not a guarantee.For this reason, it's crucial to diversify a portfolio beyond only blue chip stocks.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding a Blue Chip Stock  

While dividend payments are not absolutely necessary for a stock to be considered a blue chip, most blue chips have long records of paying stable or growing dividends.



A blue chip stock is generally a component of the most reputable market indexes or averages, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500, and the Nasdaq-100 in the United States, the TSX-60 in Canada, or the FTSE Index in the United Kingdom.



How big a company needs to be to qualify for blue chip status is open to debate. A generally accepted benchmark is a market capitalization of $10 billion, although market or sector leaders can be companies of all sizes.



For example, the T. Rowe Price Blue Chip Growth Fund doesn't have a specific guideline for what type of company qualifies outside of its focus on large-cap and mid-cap companies that are well-established in their industries. Its top ten holdings have market capitalizations that range from over $670 billion (Tesla) to over $2.4 trillion (Microsoft).










Blue chips get their name from the game of poker, where a blue chip has the highest value and is the most attractive to players.


   The Safety of Blue Chip Stocks  

Blue chips are considered safe investments due to their longstanding financial stability. They may have survived difficult challenges and market cycles over the years. However, the bankruptcies of General Motors and Lehman Brothers, as well as a number of leading European banks during the global recession of 2008, are proof that even the best companies may struggle—and even fail—during periods of extreme stress.


   Are Blue Chips Good Investments?  

Whether or not blue chip stocks (or any other securities) represent a good investment depends on an investor's financial needs, investment objectives, diversification goals, risk tolerance, and investment style.



Nonetheless, blue chips can play an important role in a portfolio. They provide a useful combination of growth and value characteristics that can balance the ups and downs caused by economic distress and market volatility.



The companies are consistent, top performers with solid fundamentals. And income from dividends is usually dependable. Reinvesting dividends harnesses the power of compounding, which is always a plus.






The Coca-Cola Company has paid dividends to investors for over 120 years, since 1893.


   Blue Chips as Part of a Larger Portfolio  

While blue chip stocks are appropriate for use as core holdings within a larger portfolio, they generally shouldn't be the entire portfolio. A diversified portfolio usually contains some allocation to bonds and cash. Within a portfolio's allocation to stocks, an investor should consider owning mid-caps and small-caps as well.



Younger investors can generally tolerate the risk that comes from having a greater percentage of their portfolios in stocks, including blue chips, while older investors may choose to focus more on capital preservation through the addition of investments in bonds and cash.




What Makes a Company a Blue Chip?
Blue chip stocks are the titans of their sectors—industry-defining companies that are well-known, well-capitalized, long-term stable plays with solid financial prospects.




What Companies Are Considered to Be Blue Chips?
Many of the largest companies in the S&P 500 or the Dow 30 are blue chips, such as IBM, JPMorgan Chase, Walmart, Microsoft, and American Express.




Where Does the Term "Blue Chip" Come From?
The term "blue chip stock" comes from the world of poker, where chips used in gambling have different colors to represent different dollar amounts. A blue chip is typically the one with the highest value of all, surpassing white chips and red chips.




How Do I Invest in Blue Chip Stocks?
An investor can buy blue chip stocks individually, or by buying mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that invest in them. In some cases, funds and ETFs will hold a variety of stocks and asset classes, including blue chips. In other cases, the funds or ETFs might be focused exclusively on blue chips, such as an ETF that tracks the Dow Jones Industrial Average (which comprises 30 of the largest blue chip stocks).


   The Bottom Line  

Blue chip stocks are aptly named because they're issued by the best companies in an industry/sector and usually have rock-solid financials and enviable valuations.



Typically, blue chips demonstrate a history of exceptional performance and attractive returns for generations of investors. That's why they can be an excellent addition to a portfolio (depending on your investment goals and style).



Yet, they're not immune to market downturns and economic upheaval. That's something all investors considering blue chips should bear in mind.
What Is Blue Ocean?  

Blue ocean is an entrepreneurship industry term created in 2005 to describe a new market with little competition or barriers standing in the way of innovators. The term refers to the vast "empty ocean" of market options and opportunities that occur when a new or unknown industry or innovation appears.



The term "blue ocean" was coined by INSEAD business school professors Chan Kim and Renee Mauborgne in their book Blue Ocean Strategy: How to Create Uncontested Market Space and Make the Competition Irrelevant (2005). The authors define blue oceans as those markets associated with high potential profits.





Key Takeaways

A blue ocean is considered (from a marketing standpoint) a yet unexploited or uncontested market space.The term was coined by Chan Kim and Renee Mauborgne in the book Blue Ocean Strategy: How to Create Uncontested Market Space and Make the Competition Irrelevant.Blue ocean firms tend to be innovators of their time.Blue oceans are contrasted with "red oceans," characterized by cutthroat competition and crowded markets.In their book, Kim and Mauborgne wrote about 150 blue ocean strategies that have been undertaken by companies over about 100 years.


   How a Blue Ocean Works  

In an established industry, companies compete with each other for every piece of available market share. The competition is often so intense that some firms cannot sustain themselves. This type of industry describes a red ocean, representing a saturated market bloodied by competition.



Blue oceans offer the opposite. Many firms choose to innovate or expand in the hopes of finding a blue ocean market with uncontested competition. Blue ocean markets are also of high interest to entrepreneurs.



Overall, blue ocean markets have several characteristics that innovators and entrepreneurs love. A pure blue ocean market has no competitors. A blue ocean market business leader has first-mover advantages, cost advantages in marketing with no competition, the ability to set prices without competitive constraints, and the flexibility to take its offering in various directions.






Business leaders with innovative products and services who can identify blue ocean markets have endless opportunities.


   Blue Ocean vs. Red Ocean Strategies  

In contrast to a blue ocean, a red ocean describes an environment of cutthroat competition among many industry players. Because the marketplace is crowded with rivals, new companies must fight fiercely for a share of any profits.



Companies in a red ocean business environment will use very different business strategies than those that have a marketplace to themselves. Rather than try to create demand, red ocean companies try to attract existing consumers through marketing, lower prices, or improved products. For example, consider the marketplace for car insurance: most insurers sell nearly-identical products, and try to capture market share by offering a more attractive deal than their competitors.


   Examples of Blue Ocean Companies  

A blue ocean is specific to a time and place. Ford and Apple are two examples of leading companies that created their blue oceans by pursuing high product differentiation at a relatively low cost, which also raised the barriers for competition. They also were paradigmatic of burgeoning industries at the time that were later exemplified and emulated by others.


  Ford Motor Co.  

In 1908, Ford Motor Co. introduced the Model T as the car for the masses. It only came in one color and one model, but it was reliable, durable, and affordable.



At the time, the automobile industry was still in its infancy with approximately 500 automakers producing custom-made cars that were more expensive and less reliable. Ford created a new manufacturing process for mass-producing standardized cars at a fraction of the price of its competitors.



The Model T's market share jumped from 9% in 1908 to 61% in 1921, officially replacing the horse-drawn carriage as the principal mode of transportation.


  Apple Inc.  

Apple Inc. found a blue ocean with its iTunes music download service. While billions of music files were being downloaded each month illegally, Apple created the first legal format for downloading music in 2003.



It was easy to use, providing users with the ability to buy individual songs at a reasonable price. Apple won over millions of music listeners who had been pirating music by offering higher-quality sound along with search and navigation functions. Apple made iTunes a win-win-win for the music producers, music listeners, and Apple by creating a new stream of revenue from a new market while providing more convenient access to music.


  Netflix  

Another example of a blue ocean firm is Netflix, a company that reinvented the entertainment industry in the 2000s. Rather than enter the competitive marketplace of video rental stores, Netflix created new models of entertainment: first by introducing mail-order video rentals, and later by pioneering the first streaming video platform paid for by user subscriptions.



Following their success, many other companies have followed in Netflix's footsteps. As a result, any new company trying to launch a video subscription model will find itself facing a red ocean rather than a blue one.


   The Bottom Line  

A blue ocean describes an entrepreneur's dream: an unexplored market, without any competition, allowing innovators to create and introduce new products that capture a large share of the market. However, a blue ocean is not always easy sailing. Entrepreneurs who seek to employ a blue ocean strategy must first create their own market, attract customers and develop a product that has never been tried before. For that reason, successful blue ocean opportunities can be rare and far between.




What Are the Steps to Implement a Blue Ocean Strategy?
In Blue Ocean Shift, Kim and Mauborgne lay out a five-step process for a company seeking to pivot to a blue ocean strategy. In short, they are:Start the process: choose a starting point and create the right team. Understand where you are now: identify the current state of play for your team, including strengths and weaknesses.Imagine where you could be: determine hidden pain points, and identify the non-customers you would like to reach.Find how you get there: develop alternative options and start reconstructing market boundaries.Make your move: formalize a big-picture model and rapidly test your blue-ocean move.




Why Is a Blue Ocean Strategy Difficult to Implement?
Blue ocean strategies are difficult to implement for a simple reason: if it were easy, someone probably would have already done it. Since blue ocean strategies require identifying untapped markets, and sometimes reinventing the market itself, a blue ocean strategy is a high-risk play that does not always pay off. When it succeeds, however, the rewards are considerable.




What Was JCPenney’s Failed Blue Ocean Strategy?
In 2011, JCPenney made a spectacular strategic blunder under its new CEO, Ron Johnson, who attempted to pivot the company towards a blue ocean strategy. At the time, JCPenney had some financial struggles but was still regarded as an industry leader for value shopping. Johnson attempted to differentiate JCPenney to a more upscale clientele, with in-store boutiques and exclusive merchandise. At the same time, he did away with the clearance racks and coupons that attracted the company's most loyal customers.To make matters worse, rather than testing the changes on a small group of experimental stores, Johnson implemented them in all 1800 JCPenney stores. After less than 18 months at the helm, JCPenney fell out of the S&P 500 Index and Johnson was fired.
What Are Blue Sky Laws?  

Blue sky laws are state regulations established as safeguards for investors against securities fraud. The laws, which may vary by state, typically require sellers of new issues to register their offerings and provide financial details of the deal and the entities involved. As a result, investors have a wealth of verifiable information on which to base their judgment and investment decisions.





Key Takeaways

Blue sky laws are state-level, anti-fraud regulations that require issuers of securities to be registered and to disclose details of their offerings.Blue sky laws create liability for issuers, allowing legal authorities and investors to bring action against them for failing to live up to the laws' provisions.Most states' blue sky laws follow the model Uniform Securities Act of 1956 and are superseded by federal securities laws in case of duplication.


   Understanding Blue Sky Laws  

Blue sky laws—which serve as an additional regulatory layer to federal securities regulations—usually mandate licenses for brokerage firms, investment advisors, and individual brokers offering securities in their states. These laws require that private investment funds register not only in their home state but in every state where they wish to do business.



Issuers of securities must reveal the terms of the offering, including disclosures of material information that may affect the security. The state-based nature of these laws means each jurisdiction can include different filing requirements for registering offerings. The process usually includes a merit review by state agents who determine whether the offering is balanced and fair for the buyer.






While blue sky laws vary by state, they all aim to protect individuals from fraudulent or overly speculative investments.



The laws' provisions also create liability for any fraudulent statements or failure to disclose information, allowing lawsuits and other legal actions to be brought against issuers.



The intent of such laws is to deter sellers from taking advantage of investors who lack experience or knowledge and to ensure that investors are presented with offers for new issues that have already been vetted by their state administrators for fairness and equitability.



There are certain exceptions regarding the types of offerings that must be registered. These exemptions include securities listed on national stock exchanges (part of an effort by federal regulators to streamline the oversight process where possible). Offerings that fall under Rule 506 of Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933, for example, qualify as “covered securities” and are also exempt.


   History of Blue Sky Laws  

The term "blue sky law" is said to have originated in the early 1900s, gaining widespread use when a Kansas Supreme Court justice declared his desire to protect investors from speculative ventures that had "no more basis than so many feet of 'blue sky.'"



In the years leading up to the 1929 stock market crash, such speculative ventures were rife. Many companies issued stock, promoted real estate, and other investment deals while making lofty, unsubstantiated promises of greater profits to come. There was no Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and little regulatory oversight of the investment and financial industry. Securities were sold without corroborating material evidence to support these claims. In some cases, details were fraudulently hidden to attract more investors. Such activities contributed to the hyper-speculative environment of the 1920s that led to inflation of the stock market before its inevitable collapse.



Although blue sky laws did exist during that time period—Kansas enacted the earliest one, in 1911—they tended to be weakly worded and enforced, and the unscrupulous could easily avoid them by doing business in another state. After the stock market crash and the onset of the Great Depression, Congress enacted several Securities Acts to regulate the stock market and the financial industry on a federal level and to establish the SEC.



In 1956 the Uniform Securities Act was passed, a model law providing a framework that guides states in the crafting of their own securities legislation. It forms the foundation for 40 out of 50 state laws today, and itself is often nicknamed the Blue Sky Law. Subsequent legislation, such as the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, pre-empts blue sky laws where they duplicate federal law.
What Is a Board of Directors?  

A board of directors (BofD) is the governing body of a company, whose members are elected by shareholders (in the case of public companies) to set strategy, oversee management, and protect the interests of shareholders and stakeholders.



Every public company must have a board of directors. Some private companies and nonprofit organizations also have a board of directors.





Key Takeaways


The board of directors of a public company is elected by shareholders.
The board makes key decisions on issues such as mergers and dividends, hires senior managers, and sets their pay.
Board of directors candidates can be nominated by the company's nominations committee or by outsiders seeking change.
Public companies must have a board of directors.
The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq require that the majority of members on the boards of listed companies be outside, or independent, directors.













Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How a Board of Directors Works  

The structure and powers of a board are determined by a company's articles of incorporation and its corporate bylaws. Bylaws can set the number of board members, how the board is elected (e.g., by a shareholder vote at an annual meeting), and how often the board meets. The board typically meets at regular intervals.



The board makes decisions as a fiduciary on behalf of the company and its shareholders. Broadly speaking, it provides insight, advice, and leadership for important objectives such as:



Protecting the interests of shareholders–A board will promote efforts and activities that maximize the value that shareholders receive for their investment. In addition to ensuring an efficiently run and profitable operation, it makes certain that shareholders receive properly reported financial data and any other important information that could impact their holdings.



Managing risk–A board will establish policies that allow a company to identify, evaluate, and respond to financial, security, and legal risks, as well as to mitigate actual loss. Facilitating ongoing risk monitoring is an essential responsibility of a board.



Engaging with stakeholders–A board will communicate with individuals and firms with vested interests in the company so that it understands those interests, can address concerns, pursue necessary changes in corporate behavior, and make a positive impact that strengthens these relationships.


   What A Board of Directors Does  

A board of directors is responsible for overseeing and advising a company so that it functions as effectively as possible. The board ensures that an organization operates lawfully and in the interests of the company's shareholders and other stakeholders (such as its employees). It operates independently of company management and day-to-day operations.



A board of directors considers important issues relating to the company, its shareholders, its employees, and the public. It's involved in:



Helping a company to define objectives, establish major goals, and stay focused on its direction over time
The hiring and dismissal of senior executives and upper management
Determining executive compensation
Defining a process and schedule for its interactions with the company's CEO
Establishing an overarching yet flexible company policy for employees
Advising executives in their planning and decision-making
Overseeing budgets and ensuring proper funding when important resources are required
Monitoring, and making necessary changes to, financial and accounting activities to safeguard corporate finances and assets
Establishing a company's dividend policies
Declaring dividends and payouts
Instituting policies for stock options
Directing mergers, acquisitions, and the divesting of assets
Leading crises management efforts
Building and maintaining a strong, lasting, and positive brand identity for the company and the public






The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq require listed companies to have boards with a majority of independent directors, and to include independent directors on key board committees such as the audit committee.


   How a Board of Directors Is Chosen  

While no set number of members is required for a corporate board, many pursuing diversity as well as cohesion settle on a range of 8 to 12 directors. Some boards require an uneven number of members to prevent votes from ending in a tie. Boards often stagger the terms of directors to avoid a full slate of yearly elections.


  Election  

For publicly listed companies in the U.S., members of the board of directors are elected by shareholders at the annual meeting. Board candidates can be nominated by the board's nomination committee, or by investors seeking to change a board's membership and policies.



For private companies, a board of directors can be chosen in a manner that abides by a company's bylaws or articles of incorporation. Directors may also be chosen by shareholders via simple agreement on whom to appoint.


  Dismissal  

Directors may be removed in elections or otherwise in instances of fiduciary duty violations. In addition, some corporate boards have fitness-to-serve rules that may lead to the removal of a director if broken.



For example, some rules are intended to prevent abuse of board power, director conduct that indicates a conflict of interest, using insider information for financial gain, selling one's votes for personal gain to outside interests, or attempting to sway other directors' votes to benefit an outside business.


   Types of Boards  

Different boards of directors can have different, broad mandates. For example:



Executive Board



The role of this board is to take on the role of a chief executive officer (where there is none) and manage a company's operations effectively and profitably. It acts to ensure that a company has and maintains a mission and a purpose, and meets its goals on an ongoing basis.



Governing Board



This board's purpose is to offer a company owner specific guidance related to the company's business mandate so that it can operate effectively and achieve its future goals.



Advisory Board



Like the governing board, this board brings insight to a company's top executive. It offers different perspectives and experience that can help the company meet specific goals, such as growing a network, achieving community brand recognition and connection, and building a new customer segment.



Fundraising Board



This board is focused on attracting funds that can help an organization meet its goals. Board members organize various opportunities, such as campaigns, special events, galas, tournaments, auctions, and more to raise money. They use their positions in the business community and personal relationships to help an organization financially.


   Types of Board Members  

The board of directors typically is formed from inside and outside directors. An inside director is most commonly defined as a company employee, though the category sometimes also covers significant shareholders.



Outside, or independent, directors are only involved with the company through their board membership. As a result, independent directors face fewer conflicts of interest than company insiders in discharging their fiduciary obligations.



In addition, they bring to the board different points of view and expertise related to different kinds of business. Outside directors can be invaluable to a board in helping it carry out its responsibilities effectively.



The board usually will include the company's chief executive officer (who is often the board's chairperson) and sometimes other senior officers or managers.



Directors may have specific roles and titles. For example:



Chairperson or President: This individual leads and manages the board of directors. They are responsible for setting agendas, running successful board meetings, establishing committees, and other duties. They normally represent the company at public events.



Vice chair or Vice president: The vice chair works closely with the chairperson or president in support of their responsibilities. They also help to facilitate directives and may address potential conflicts of interest of board members. The vice chair normally fulfills the chairperson's duties when the latter is unavailable.



Secretary: The secretary manages the board's administrative tasks. They take the board meeting minutes and maintain accurate corporate records.



Treasurer: The treasurer focuses on a company's budget, financial policies and accounting, investments, and other financial issues. They work with other professionals concerned with the company's financial well-being.


   What Makes a Successful Board of Directors?  

How effective a board of directors is ultimately depends on the quality and conduct of its members, and their ability to properly oversee and guide a company so that it can achieve its goals of building profitability and shareholder value.



Each member should bring to the table different expertise and skills that relate to the company's focus. They must be able to work together harmoniously and constructively to achieve common objectives and fulfill fiduciary responsibilities.



Their motivation should be the company's advancement rather than their own and therefore they must recognize and handle conflicts of interest that may arise.



Additionally, an effective board of directors maintains transparency of its oversight and decision-making, thus ensuring the accountability of its independent and ethical standards and conduct.




What Is the Job of a Board of Directors?
In general, a board sets broad policies and makes important decisions as a fiduciary on behalf of the company and its shareholders. Issues that fall under a board's purview include mergers and acquisitions, dividends and major investments, as well as the hiring and firing of senior executives and their compensation.




Does a CEO Outrank a Board of Directors?
No, the CEO (who may be on the board) and the directors work together on relevant company issues. The Board doesn't interfere with the CEO's handling of a company's daily operations. But it has the authority to evaluate the performance of a CEO and remove them, if deemed necessary.




Are Board Directors Paid?
Insider directors are not typically compensated for board duties since they're most often company employees. Outside directors are paid.


   The Bottom Line  

A board of directors is a group of individuals elected by a public company's shareholders to provide the expert and experienced guidance and oversight to ensure a company's profitability and sustainability.



The board has a fiduciary duty to make decisions and take actions in the interest of shareholders and stakeholders. It operates independently of management and focuses on a company's major issues rather than its day-to-day operations.
What Is a Board of Governors?  

A board of governors is a group of people appointed to oversee the management of an institution. The U.S. Postal Service, the BBC, the World Bank, numerous colleges and universities, as well as professional organizations (such as the CFA Institute), and regulatory bodies (such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)), all have boards of governors.



In the financial world, the best-known board of governors is that of the Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States.





Key Takeaways

A board of governors oversees an organization's operations, including financial matters.The most well-known board of governors in the U.S. is the Federal Reserve, whose responsibilities include analyzing domestic and international economic developments and overseeing operations of the Federal Reserve Banks.In a corporation, a board of directors is an appointed group that oversees the business.Members of the Federal Reserve's board of governors are nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate.A competent and well-organized board of governors is seen as a key component of the success of an organization.


   Understanding a Board of Governors  

The U.S. central bank's board of governors is composed of seven individuals who are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. Members of the board of governors serve 14-year terms, running on a staggered basis to ensure continuity.



Legally, appointments to the board are to consist of a "fair representation of the financial, agricultural, industrial, and commercial interests and geographical divisions of the country.” In practice, appointments have predominantly been of academics and former banking professionals.






Only one governor can represent a Federal Reserve District.


   Duties of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors  

The board of governors has seven of the 12 seats on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), the body responsible for setting U.S. monetary policy. The current Federal Reserve Board has six members, with one vacancy as of May 2022.



The presidents of five of the 12 regional Reserve Banks make up the remaining members of the FOMC.



The chair of the Fed’s board of governors is responsible for chairing the FOMC.


  Responsibilities  

The Federal Reserve Board:



Analyzes domestic and international economic developmentsSupervises and regulates the operations of the Federal Reserve BanksHas responsibility for America's payments systemOversees and administers most consumer credit protection laws



The board has authority over changes in reserve requirements, and it must approve any change in the discount rate initiated by a Federal Reserve Bank.



Members of the board frequently testify before congressional committees on the economy, monetary policy, banking supervision and regulation, consumer credit protection, and financial markets.



They are also responsible for supervising the work of the regional Fed banks, including approving budgets and appointing directors.


  Chairs of the Board of Governors  

The current Federal Reserve Chair is Jerome Powell. Recent, notable chairs of the Fed’s Board of Governors include:



Janet Yellen, the first female chair to be appointed, served from 2014 to 2018
Ben Bernanke, who led the Fed from 2006 to 2014 and oversaw a range of unconventional monetary policy actions to address the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and the recession that followed
Alan Greenspan, whose time as chair spanned nearly 20 years and four presidential administrations






There have been a total of 16 Chairs of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve of the United States.


   Board of Governors vs. Board of Directors  

Non-profit organizations, government divisions, and higher academic institutions typically have a board of governors as their governing body rather than a board of directors. Corporations, as required by law, have a board of directors appointed to oversee financial decisions and business operations.



When two or more boards exist within an entity, the board of governors often reigns supreme as the decision-making authority.




Who Are the Current Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve?
A maximum of seven governors can serve on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The members of the current Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve are Jerome H. Powell, Michael S. Barr, Lael Brainard, Michelle W. Bowman, Lisa D. Cook, Philip N. Jefferson, and Christopher J. Waller.




Who Nominates and Confirms the Fed Board of Governors?
The governors of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve are nominated by the president of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.




Why Are the Fed Governors Appointed for Staggered 14-Year Terms?
The purpose of the staggered terms is to ensure stability and continuity.




Who Is the Current Chair of the Federal Reserve?
The current chair of the Federal Reserve is Jerome H. Powell. He was sworn in for a second four-year term on May 23, 2022. He assumed the role following his confirmation in February 2018.




What Are the 12 Banks of the Federal Reserve?
The 12 banks of the Federal Reserve are the Federal Reserve Banks of San Francisco, Minneapolis, Dallas, Kansas City, St. Louis, Chicago, Cleveland, Atlanta, Boston, New York, Richmond, and Philadelphia.


   The Bottom Line  

A board of governors is a group of highly qualified individuals responsible for overseeing and managing an institution. Most institutions, from corporations to nonprofit organizations to media outlets to government bodies have a board of governors. The most well-known board of governors is that of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board.
What Is a Board of Trustees?  

A board of trustees is an appointed or elected group of individuals that has overall responsibility for the management of an organization. The board of trustees is typically the governing body of an organization and seeks to ensure the best interest of stakeholders in all types of management decisions.


   How a Board of Trustees Works  

The board of trustees typically includes key individuals involved with the management of an organization. Other individuals may be appointed or elected based on their expertise and experience in areas pertaining to the management of the organization. The board will often have a mix of internal and external trustees.



A board of trustees is similar to a board of directors and may act as such in some organizations. A board of trustees is more commonly found in private organizations. Entities with boards of trustees include mutual savings banks, universities, university endowments, art museums, and associations.



The phrase board of trustees can often be used interchangeably with the board of directors, the board of governors or board of regents. Some entities such as public corporations and mutual funds may have requirements designated by industry regulations that pertain to the oversight and obligations of the board of trustees. In some cases, the board of trustees may be a special group tasked with managing a designated portion of a comprehensive organization.



The framework for a board of trustees is typically set by regulatory obligations and entity direction outlined in an organization’s bylaws. A board of trustees can range from three to 30 individuals. Boards are often divided into sub-committees, which can help to manage target areas of an entity while also providing for some segregation of power.



Often the board of trustees will be responsible for holding "in-trust" the funds, assets, or property that belong to others with a fiduciary duty to protect them. Two leading entities using a board of trustees structure include university endowments and mutual savings banks.





Key Takeaways

The board of trustees is responsible for managing an organization.The trustees ensure stakeholders' best interests.The board of trustees is similar to the board of directors, but are commonly in private organizations.


   University Endowments  

A university endowment may have a special board of trustees that is responsible for the oversight and management of a portfolio of assets known as an endowment. The board of trustees has a fiduciary responsibility to manage the funds in the best interest of all stakeholders. It may choose to invest the endowment assets across a range of investments utilizing the services of various institutional managers in managing the endowment assets. It may also choose to work with a single institutional manager in a separate account structure or take on the full duties of managing the assets itself. Regardless of the structure of an endowment portfolio, the board of trustees has fiduciary responsibility for making all of the endowment’s investment decisions.


   Mutual Savings Banks  

Mutual savings banks have boards of trustees who ensure that the interests of the depositors, borrowers, and members of the community in which they serve are considered and protected by bank management. The board has the duties of making sure customers' deposits are secured and invested safely, interest is paid to depositors and that the customers' principal is available to them on request.
What Is "Boil the Ocean"?  

"Boil the ocean" is an idiomatic phrase that means to undertake an impossible task or project or to make a job or project unnecessarily difficult. The phrase appears in business and among startup companies, as well as in other group settings, and is considered to be a negative phrase in relation to how one approaches a task.





Key Takeaways

"Boiling the ocean" means undertaking an impossible task or making a task unnecessarily difficult.The phrase is used in a variety of settings as a negative comment on how one conducts business or projects.The phrase derives from the literal concept of boiling the ocean, which is an impossible task.To avoid boiling the ocean, tasks and projects should have clear guidelines within the resources provided, frequent discussions on progress, and provisions against any unnecessary expansion.


   Understanding "Boiling the Ocean"  

In the literal sense, boiling the ocean is impossible because there's too much water for boiling it to be feasible. Boiling the actual ocean would be an impossible task. When applied to groups or projects, the phrase can simply mean making something so complicated that the goal becomes impossible.



The phrase "boil the ocean" has the additional connotation of going overboard or delving into such minute detail that a project becomes impossible. It also is sometimes heard as a derisory comment on a written or verbal report that is filled with unnecessary detail, insider jargon, or pompous language.



As with many phrases of this type, its origins are somewhat mysterious. Various sources point to Will Rogers, Mark Twain, and Lewis Carroll as the originators of the phrase; however, no direct attribution has been identified.


   How Not to "Boil the Ocean"  

For project managers and business leaders, it is especially important to avoid boiling the ocean. Management can accomplish this by focusing on the most critical parts of a project. They can make sure they have the right team and the right resources in place before starting a project. They may break large projects into smaller units, accomplishing steps rather than failing by bounds.



It's critical to focus on the core pillars of a project and not let it run out of control. Creating boundaries within the given resources can help to achieve this, and stopping any efforts to expand the scope of the project is imperative.



Having clear agendas, a timetable, and frequent discussions on the progress of a project can help ensure that it does not become impossible to achieve the stated goals.


   Criticism of "Boiling the Ocean"  

Some business experts believe that the term "boil the ocean" should be retired or used only specifically as it does not adequately provide sage advice. These critics believe that the phrase works for complicated problems, whereby breaking down tasks and assigning them to those best suited is a smart move that saves time and resources.



However, these critics also believe that the ocean should be boiled when approaching complex tasks. This is so because most complex tasks within an organization have a link to all parts of the organization and working on a larger scale ensures that any changes or new implementations impact all parts of the organization equally and positively. Working in isolation could be fruitless.



Furthermore, complex problems can be so vast, it can be difficult to know where to start and what awaits down the line as a project progresses. Therefore, avoiding one area to focus on another might not be the best strategy. Here, being all-inclusive and expanding the breadth of the project may be the quickest and most successful way to achieve the intended goal.


   Examples of "Boiling the Ocean"  

Say a manager directed a team to prepare a presentation for an American business client based in Houston. Instead of requesting a straightforward presentation, the manager may insist that the employees prepare versions in Spanish, French, Japanese, Chinese, and Italian as well as English, just in case someone at the presentation prefers to hear it in one of those languages. The manager has taken a simple project and turned it into something which is nearly impossible. In fact, the ocean is boiling.



Another example might be a six-month-old startup company that has set a goal of obtaining venture capital funding and going public by the end of the year. Such a goal might seem laudably ambitious to the company's founder. The employees who are tasked with getting it done know it's boiling the ocean.




What Does It Mean to Not Boil the Ocean?
Saying "don't boil the ocean" means don't take on more than can realistically be accomplished in a given time period, or don't set yourself up to fail. As a warning, it plays on the idiom "boiling the ocean."




How Do You Avoid Boiling the Ocean in Business?
An individual or corporation can avoid boiling the ocean by having a clear, realistic perspective on what can be accomplished in a specific time period with the resources available. This can mean taking small, manageable steps versus taking on what is likely to be insurmountable.




What Other Idioms Involve the Ocean?
The phrase "a drop in the ocean" or "a drop in the bucket," refers to something that is a very small part of what is actually needed to accomplish something. An example might be if a person wants to buy a $500,000 home and all they have saved is $500, an amount that is 'a drop in the ocean.'
What Is Boilerplate?  

The term boilerplate refers to standardized text, copy, documents, methods, or procedures that may be used over again without making major changes to the original. A boilerplate is commonly used for efficiency and to increase standardization in the structure and language of written or digital documents. This includes contracts, investment prospectuses, and bond indentures. In the field of contract law, documents contain boilerplate language, which is a language that is considered generic or standard in contracts.





Key Takeaways

Boilerplate language is a uniform text that you can find across a variety of standard documents, such as contracts.Boilerplate passages of text are often part of templates that are easily filled in and subsequently personalized.The term is also used in the computer world when describing snippets of code used across various programs.The use of the term boilerplate dates back to the 19th century, when steel plates were used as templates to make steam boilers.Boilerplates are time and money-savers, but can also favor only one party in the case of contracts.


   How Boilerplates Work  

Boilerplate is any text, documentation, or procedures that can be reused more than once in a new context without any substantial changes to the original. Boilerplates are commonly used online and in written documents by a variety of entities including corporations, legal firms, and medical facilities.



Users can make slight changes to the language or certain portions of the text to tailor a document for different uses. For instance, a media release contains boilerplate language at the bottom, which is usually information about the company or product, and can be updated for different situations before being disseminated to the public.



The term is also commonly used in the information technology industry, referring to coding that can be created and reused over and over again. In this case, the IT specialist only has to rework some of the code to fit into the current need, without making major changes to the original structure.



Think of a boilerplate the same as you would think of templates. which provide the user with a basic structure of the text or document that can be changed to suit different needs.


   History of Boilerplate  

In the 19th century, a boilerplate referred to a plate of steel used as a template in the construction of steam boilers. These standardized metal plates reminded editors of the often trite and unoriginal work that ad writers and others sometimes submitted for publication.



The legal profession began using the term boilerplate as early as the mid-1950s, when an article in the Bedford Gazette criticized boilerplates because they often included fine print designed to skirt the law.



Businesses now use boilerplate clauses in contracts, purchase agreements, and other formal documents. Boilerplate clauses are designed to protect businesses from making errors or legal mistakes in the language.



The wording of these passages is generally not up for negotiation with customers, who will often sign boilerplate documents without actually reading or understanding them. This type of boilerplate, written by a party with superior bargaining power and presented to a weaker party, is often called an adhesion contract in the legal profession. Courts may set aside provisions of such contracts if they find them coercive or unfair.






Boilerplating can also be used as a disparaging term to refer to a lack of originality or sincere effort in any activity.


   Boilerplate Language in the Modern World  

In contemporary times, the term boilerplate is widely applied to a variety of settings. It normally refers to a standardized method, form, or procedure. Computer programmers speak of using boilerplate code to write a new program because modern programs can consist of billions of lines of code, and it is virtually impossible to write them from scratch.



In marketing and public relations, boilerplate refers to blocks of language in marketing materials or press releases that rarely change. They are often written to express a company's mission or otherwise cast it in a positive light and are commonly added to a variety of its publications, press releases, or web pages, including the About Us page on many websites.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Boilerplate  

Boilerplates are considered a time and money saver. Companies don't have to waste resources drafting up new documents or contracts. They can simply update existing documents or templates to suit their purpose. Similarly, IT professionals can make a few alterations to existing code to create new text and documents online.



Boilerplates can help prevent mistakes. Original documents and the language are usually already vetted to ensure they are error-free, which means less headache in the future. This provides companies and individuals with protection from any legal problems that may arise from sloppy work. Standard forms provide also users with consistency. This prevents the possibility of inadvertent deviation from one contract or document to the next.



But there are certain disadvantages that come with these as well. For instance, boilerplates are often used flatly across the board, as in the case of some fine print. They are not always tailored to every situation. In most cases, people don't read the fine print and aren't aware of conditions they must uphold, such as being bound to a contract.



Contractual boilerplates often contain language that only favors one party—usually the writer. In these cases, companies rely on the fact that individuals will either skip or skim through these sections.





Pros

Boilerplates save time and money
There is less room for error and more consistency



Cons

Boilerplates are not tailored specifically to every individual
They often favor only one party in a contract





   Examples of Boilerplate Language  

A bank may use a standard contract for everyone who applies for a home loan. Bank employees and loan applicants may fill in the blanks or select from lists of checkboxes, depending on the circumstances, rather than create an entirely new document for every new applicant. These documents typically remain unchanged so that the parties using them are not misled into accepting unfavorable conditions that even small changes in the boilerplate text could cause.



Another example of a boilerplate is the fine print that appears on many contracts. This section is usually static, as is the case with many cell phone contracts. This indicates what fees, charges, and other rules that may apply to someone's service. But companies may make minor changes to the text when needed.


   Boilerplate FAQs  
  What Is a Boilerplate Statement?  

A boilerplate statement is a standard statement commonly issued by companies. This statement is fairly generic and can be altered slightly to fit a specific purpose, such as an email response to a media inquiry or to a consumer complaint. As such, boilerplate statements are commonly found in press releases, the About Us section on a corporate website, or in written communications.


  What Is a Boilerplate Project?  

A boilerplate project is a project set up that can be easily altered to create new projects. The user is able to use the original project, its foundation, and its structure to set up a new one without changing the original. This is commonly found in the information technology sector, where coders update existing code to make changes to webpages.


  Why Is It Called Boilerplate Language?  

The term boilerplate language dates back to the 19th century, when steel plates were used as templates to create steam boilers. This application of the term was used in the legal profession in the mid-1950s to describe how companies used fine print to get around the law.


  What Is a Boilerplate in a Press Release Example?  

The boilerplate in a press release is often found at the bottom. This text is used to briefly identify and describe the company issuing the release.


  What Is a Boilerplate Clause in a Contract?  

A boilerplate clause is a standard section in a contract that is found at the end or bottom of the document. This clause normally outlines certain conditions enforced to which parties must adhere, including when a contract is broken and how any problems and disputes are resolved.


   The Bottom Line  

Boilerplates are a big part of the corporate and information technology sectors. These tools help save time and money, allowing text and documents to be created for use over and over again. For instance, the fine print or boilerplate clause is found on legal contracts while boilerplates are standard messages found in press releases. While they do serve a purpose, it's important to remember that you shouldn't skim over these sections if you ever come across them. That's because they often contain important information about your rights.
What Is a Boiler Room?  

A boiler room is a place or operation—usually a call center—where high-pressure salespeople call lists of potential investors ("sucker lists") to peddle speculative, sometimes fraudulent, securities. Sucker lists identify victims of previous scams.





Key Takeaways

A boiler room is a scheme in which salespeople apply high-pressure sales tactics to persuade investors to purchase securities, including speculative and fraudulent securities.Most boiler room salespersons contact potential investors through cold calls.Some notable boiler room tactics include making claims that cannot be easily verified by the investor, demanding immediate payment, or issuing threats for noncompliance.These methods, if not illegal, clearly violate the National Association of Securities Dealers' (NASD) rules of fair practice. Boiler room sales tactics are also restricted by the Securities and Exchange Commission's Rule 10b5, which forbids dealers from making untrue statements, omitting material facts, or other deceitful behavior.


   Understanding Boiler Room  

The term boiler room refers to an early practice of running such operations in the basement or boiler room of a building and is so called due to high-pressure selling. A broker using boiler-room tactics gives customers only positive information about the stock and discourages them from doing any outside research. Boiler room salespeople typically use catchphrases like "it's a sure thing" or "opportunities like this happen once in a lifetime."



Boiler room methods, if not illegal, clearly violate the rules of fair practice set forth by the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD). The North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) estimates that investors collectively lose billions of dollars a year to investment fraud.


   How a Boiler Room Operates  

According to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the people involved in a boiler room scheme reach out to investors through cold calls, which are unsolicited calls to people with whom the salesperson has had no prior contact. This tactic positions the prospect to have no frame of reference or history from which to measure the caller’s claims. While this means the prospect has no reason to trust the caller, it also means they have no background information to disprove their claims.






The SEC advises investors to research the backgrounds of investment salespeople and verify their registered status at its website, Investor.gov.



Part of the pressure sales approach may include making assertions about the investment opportunity that the target cannot verify on their own. The salesperson might insist on immediate payment by the prospect. They may also take a hostile approach, threatening the prospect to act. Promises of high returns and no risk might also be used to pressure prospects to invest.



Boiler-room tactics are sometimes used to convince investors to overspend on the purchase of securities that are actually of lower value. The securities may, in fact, be worthless or nonexistent, and the funds that are raised are solely for the enrichment of the individuals behind the operation. A variety of fraudulent scams may be run through boiler-room schemes. This can include binary options fraud, advance fee fraud, and microcap fraud.



These schemes are no longer limited to basements and boiler rooms; they can be maintained at a variety of locations, such as offices or private homes. Boiler-room salespeople may also solicit prospects through other means than phone calls. Electronic messaging, such as email, text messages, and social media, can be used to initiate contact with a prospect.


   How to Spot and Avoid Boiler Room Scams  

Like other forms of confidence schemes, boiler rooms take advantage of the subjects' greed and emotions in order to get their money. They often rely on high-pressure sales tactics, such as aggressive cold-calling, misinformation, and extravagant promises to assure buyers that they are buying "a sure thing." They may also hint at insider information, such as an upcoming merger or acquisition that would affect the share price.



The SEC requires brokers to adhere to strict standards when selling securities. Brokers may not misinform or omit material facts when selling securities; nor can they exaggerate their own track records. They are also required to have a  “reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy is suitable for a customer.” If a broker is trying to reach potential buyers by cold-calling, they may not have the customer's needs in mind.






The SEC strictly prohibits securities dealers from misinforming investors or making material omissions. If a purported stockbroker claims to have access to secret inside information, that is a classic sign of a scam.


   Examples of Boiler Rooms  

Popularized in films like "Boiler Room," "Glengarry Glen Ross," and "The Wolf of Wall Street," boiler rooms have become synonymous with unethical sales tactics. However, the actual techniques have changed substantially. Here are some recent examples:


  Penny Stock Scams  

Penny stocks are small companies that trade for less than $5 per share. Most penny stocks are too small for regular stock markets and are only traded over-the-counter. This means that a comparatively small group of buyers can cause a significant rise in price.



In a typical penny stock scam, operators would first accumulate a small-cap stock at a low price, and then use boiler-room tactics to find buyers for an inflated price. In such a scam, victims may think that they are buying on the open market when they are effectively buying their shares directly from the operators.


  Software Scams  

Not all boiler rooms sell securities. In a 2015 case in the Australian state of Queensland, police discovered a boiler room selling sports betting software. According to ABC, the telemarketers were "working from a carefully prepared script" to collect millions of dollars from Australian investors, promising extravagant returns of up to $80,000 per year. The scammers also used false names and fabricated testimonials, while paying off local police to provide cover.


   Boiler Room FAQs  
  What Is a Pump and Dump Scam?  

A pump and dump is a form of illegal market manipulation in which scammers artificially raise the price of their own shares, in order to sell them at a profit. Pump and dump scams are particularly popular with cryptocurrencies, due to the lack of market depth and effective regulation.



In a typical pump and dump, operators use cold-calling, message boards, or social media to reach investors and persuade them to buy the security, usually with promises of guaranteed profits. As the price starts to rise, the operators sell their own shares, leaving buyers holding the bag.


  What Is the Penny Stock Reform Act?  

Passed in 1990, the Penny Stock Reform Act sought to reduce the occurrence of penny stock fraud, such as the schemes outlined above. The act included stringent disclosure requirements for brokers selling penny stocks, in order to prevent them from misinforming buyers. It also established an electronic marketplace for quoting such securities.


  What Is Dialing and Smiling?  

"Dial and smile" refers to the telemarketing technique of cold-calling potential buyers for sales purposes. As the term implies, these techniques rely on high-pressure sales tactics and emotional manipulation to persuade people to buy things that they would not ordinarily want. To combat aggressive cold-calling, government agencies have prohibited telemarketers from making false statements, calling cell phones, or violating the do-not-call list.


   The Bottom Line  

Boiler room scams are as old as the stock market. While they are no longer done in literal boiler rooms, the technique is the same: Brokers use unethical tactics to market low-quality securities without disclosing the hidden downsides. While technology has changed, boiler room tactics haven't.



While securities fraud isn't going anywhere, there are now stricter regulations against boiler room tactics, requiring brokers to disclose all material information and forbidding them from exaggerating the potential upsides.
A Bollinger Band® is a technical analysis tool defined by a set of trendlines. They are plotted as two standard deviations, both positively and negatively, away from a simple moving average (SMA) of a security's price and can be adjusted to user preferences.



Bollinger Bands® was developed by technical trader John Bollinger and designed to give investors a higher probability of identifying when an asset is oversold or overbought.





Key Takeaways

Bollinger Bands® is a technical analysis tool to generate oversold or overbought signals and was developed by John Bollinger.Three lines compose Bollinger Bands: A simple moving average, or the middle band, and an upper and lower band.The upper and lower bands are typically 2 standard deviations +/- from a 20-day simple moving average and can be modified.When the price continually touches the upper Bollinger Band, it can indicate an overbought signal.If the price continually touches the lower band it can indicate an oversold signal.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How to Calculate Bollinger Bands®  

The first step in calculating Bollinger Bands® is to compute the simple moving average (SMA) of the security, typically using a 20-day SMA. A 20-day SMA averages the closing prices for the first 20 days as the first data point.



The next data point drops the earliest price, adds the price on day 21 and takes the average, and so on. Next, the standard deviation of the security price will be obtained. Standard deviation is a mathematical measurement of average variance and features prominently in statistics, economics, accounting, and finance.



For a given data set, the standard deviation measures how far numbers are from an average value. Standard deviation can be calculated by taking the square root of the variance, which itself is the average of the squared differences of the mean.



Next, multiply that standard deviation value by two and both add and subtract that amount from each point along the SMA. Those produce the upper and lower bands.



Here is this Bollinger Band® formula:


















BOLU


=


MA


(


TP


,


n


)


+


m


∗


σ


[


TP


,


n


]
















BOLD


=


MA


(


TP


,


n


)


−


m


∗


σ


[


TP


,


n


]
















where:
















BOLU


=


Upper Bollinger Band
















BOLD


=


Lower Bollinger Band
















MA


=


Moving average
















TP (typical price)


=


(


High


+


Low


+


Close


)


÷


3
















n


=


Number of days in smoothing period (typically 20)
















m


=


Number of standard deviations (typically 2)
















σ


[


TP


,


n


]


=


Standard Deviation over last 


n


 periods of TP







\begin{aligned} &\text{BOLU} = \text {MA} ( \text {TP}, n ) + m * \sigma [ \text {TP}, n ] \\ &\text{BOLD} = \text {MA} ( \text {TP}, n ) - m * \sigma [ \text {TP}, n ] \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text {BOLU} = \text {Upper Bollinger Band} \\ &\text {BOLD} = \text {Lower Bollinger Band} \\ &\text {MA} = \text {Moving average} \\ &\text {TP (typical price)} = ( \text{High} + \text{Low} + \text{Close} ) \div 3 \\ &n = \text {Number of days in smoothing period (typically 20)} \\ &m = \text {Number of standard deviations (typically 2)} \\ &\sigma [ \text {TP}, n ] = \text {Standard Deviation over last } n \text{ periods of TP} \\ \end{aligned}


​BOLU=MA(TP,n)+m∗σ[TP,n]BOLD=MA(TP,n)−m∗σ[TP,n]where:BOLU=Upper Bollinger BandBOLD=Lower Bollinger BandMA=Moving averageTP (typical price)=(High+Low+Close)÷3n=Number of days in smoothing period (typically 20)m=Number of standard deviations (typically 2)σ[TP,n]=Standard Deviation over last n periods of TP​


   What Do Bollinger Bands® Tell You?  

Bollinger Bands® is a popular technique. Many traders believe the closer the prices move to the upper band, the more overbought the market, and the closer the prices move to the lower band, the more oversold the market. John Bollinger has a set of 22 rules to follow when using the bands as a trading system.


  The Squeeze  

The "squeeze" is the central concept of Bollinger Bands®. When the bands come close together, constricting the moving average, it is called a squeeze. A squeeze signals a period of low volatility and is considered by traders to be a potential sign of future increased volatility and possible trading opportunities.



Conversely, the wider apart the bands move, the more likely the chance of a decrease in volatility and the greater the possibility of exiting a trade. These conditions are not trading signals. The bands do not indicate when the change may take place or in which direction the price could move.


  Breakouts  

Approximately 90% of price action occurs between the two bands. Any breakout above or below the bands is significant. The breakout is not a trading signal and many investors mistake that when the price hits or exceeds one of the bands as a signal to buy or sell. Breakouts provide no clue as to the direction and extent of future price movement.


   Example of Bollinger Bands®  

In the chart below, Bollinger Bands® bracket the 20-day SMA of the stock with an upper and lower band along with the daily movements of the stock's price. Because standard deviation is a measure of volatility, when the markets become more volatile the bands widen; during less volatile periods, the bands' contract.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Limitations of Bollinger Bands®  

Bollinger Bands® is not a standalone trading system but just one indicator designed to provide traders with information regarding price volatility. John Bollinger suggests using them with two or three other non-correlated indicators that provide more direct market signals and indicators based on different types of data. Some of his favored technical techniques are moving average divergence/convergence (MACD), on-balance volume, and relative strength index (RSI).



Because Bollinger Bands® are computed from a simple moving average, they weigh older price data the same as the most recent, meaning that new information may be diluted by outdated data. Also, the use of 20-day SMA and 2 standard deviations is a bit arbitrary and may not work for everyone in every situation. Traders should adjust their SMA and standard deviation assumptions accordingly and monitor them.




What Do Bollinger Bands® Tell You?
Bollinger Bands® gives traders an idea of where the market is moving based on prices. It involves the use of three bands—one for the upper level, another for the lower level, and the third for the moving average. When prices move closer to the upper band, it indicates that the market may be overbought. Conversely, the market may be oversold when prices end up moving closer to the lower or bottom band.




Which Indicators Work Best with Bollinger Bands®?
Many technical indicators work best in conjunction with other ones. Bollinger Bands® are often used along with the relative strength indicator (RSI) as well as the BandWidth indicator, which is the measure of the width of the bands relative to the middle band. Traders use BandWidth to find Bollinger Squeezes.




How Accurate Are Bollinger Bands®?
Since Bollinger Bands® are set two use +/- two standard deviations around an SMA, we should expect that approximately 95% of the time, the observed price action will fall within these bands.




What Time Frame Is Best Used With Bollinger Bands®?
Bollinger Bands® typically use a 20-day moving average.


   The Bottom Line  

Bollinger Bands® can be a useful tool for traders for assessing the relative level of over- or under-sold position of a stock and provides them with insight on when to enter and exit a position. Certain aspects of Bollinger Bands®, such as the squeeze, work well for currency trading. Buying when stock prices cross below the lower Bollinger Band® often helps traders take advantage of oversold conditions and profit when the stock price moves back up toward the center moving-average line.
What Is the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE)?  

The Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) is the first and largest securities market in India and was established in 1875 as the Native Share and Stock Brokers' Association. Based in Mumbai, India, the BSE lists close to 6,000 companies and is one of the largest exchanges in the world, along with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Nasdaq, London Stock Exchange Group, Japan Exchange Group, and Shanghai Stock Exchange.



The BSE has helped develop India's capital markets, including the retail debt market, and has helped grow the Indian corporate sector. The BSE is Asia's first stock exchange and also includes an equities trading platform for small-and-medium enterprises (SME). BSE has diversified into providing other capital market services including clearing, settlement, and risk management.





Key Takeaways

Established in 1875 as the Native Share and Stock Brokers' Association, the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) is Asia's first exchange and the largest securities market in India.The BSE has been instrumental in developing India's capital markets by providing an efficient platform for the Indian corporate sector to raise investment capital.The BSE is known for its electronic trading system that provides fast and efficient trade execution.The BSE enables investors to trade in equities, currencies, debt instruments, derivatives, and mutual funds. The BSE also provides other important capital market trading services such as risk management, clearing, settlement, and investor education.


   How the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) Works  

In 1995, the BSE switched from an open-floor to an electronic trading system. There are more than a dozen electronic exchanges in the U.S. alone with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Nasdaq being the most widely known.



Today, electronic trading systems dominate the financial industry overall, offering fewer errors, faster execution, and better efficiency than traditional open-outcry trading systems. Securities that the BSE lists include stocks, stock futures, stock options, index futures, index options, and weekly options.



The BSE's overall performance is measured by the Sensex, a benchmark index of 30 of the BSE's largest and most actively traded stocks covering 12 sectors. Debuting in 1986, the Sensex is India's oldest stock index. Also called the "BSE 30," the index broadly represents the composition of India's entire market.


   Dalal Street  

The Bombay Stock Exchange is located on Dalal Street in downtown Mumbai, India. In the 1850s, stockbrokers would conduct business under a banyan tree in front of the Mumbai town hall. After a few decades of various meeting locations, Dalal Street was formally selected in 1874 as the location for the Native Share and Stock Brokers' Association, the forerunner organization that would eventually become the BSE.



Mumbai is now a major financial center in India and Dalal Street is home to a large number of banks, investment firms, and related financial service companies. The importance of Dalal Street to India is similar to that of Wall Street in the United States. Indian investors and the press will cite the investment activity of Dalal Street and will use it as a figure of speech to represent the Indian financial industry.






Dalal in Marathi translates to a "broker" or "intermediary."


   Other Major International Stock Exchanges  

In addition to the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), other major international stock exchanges include:


  The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)  

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is considered the largest equities-based exchange in the world, based on the total market capitalization of its listed securities. NYSE was formerly a private organization but became public in 2005 after it acquired the electronic trading exchange Archipelago.


  Nasdaq  

Nasdaq is a global electronic marketplace and the benchmark index for U.S. technology stocks. National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) created Nasdaq in 1971 to enable investors to trade securities on a rapid, computerized, and transparent system. Today “Nasdaq” also refers to the Nasdaq Composite, an index of more than 3,000 listed technology companies including Apple, Google, Microsoft, Oracle, Amazon, Intel, and Amgen.


  London Stock Exchange (LSE)  

The London Stock Exchange (LSE) is the primary U.K. stock exchange and largest in Europe. The LSE developed after several regional exchanges merged in 1973. LSE was first called the Stock Exchange of Great Britain and Ireland. One hundred of the top blue chips on the LSE form the Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 100 Share Index or "Footsie."



Other major international stock exchanges in Asia include the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) and the Shanghai Stock Exchange.
What Is a Bond?  

A bond is a fixed-income instrument that represents a loan made by an investor to a borrower (typically corporate or governmental). A bond could be thought of as an I.O.U. between the lender and borrower that includes the details of the loan and its payments. Bonds are used by companies, municipalities, states, and sovereign governments to finance projects and operations. Owners of bonds are debtholders, or creditors, of the issuer.



Bond details include the end date when the principal of the loan is due to be paid to the bond owner and usually include the terms for variable or fixed interest payments made by the borrower.





Key Takeaways

Bonds are units of corporate debt issued by companies and securitized as tradeable assets.A bond is referred to as a fixed-income instrument since bonds traditionally paid a fixed interest rate (coupon) to debtholders.Variable or floating interest rates are also now quite common.Bond prices are inversely correlated with interest rates: when rates go up, bond prices fall and vice-versa.Bonds have maturity dates at which point the principal amount must be paid back in full or risk default.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Who Issues Bonds?  

Bonds are debt instruments and represent loans made to the issuer. Governments (at all levels) and corporations commonly use bonds in order to borrow money. Governments need to fund roads, schools, dams, or other infrastructure. The sudden expense of war may also demand the need to raise funds.



Similarly, corporations will often borrow to grow their business, to buy property and equipment, to undertake profitable projects, for research and development, or to hire employees. The problem that large organizations run into is that they typically need far more money than the average bank can provide.



Bonds provide a solution by allowing many individual investors to assume the role of the lender. Indeed, public debt markets let thousands of investors each lend a portion of the capital needed. Moreover, markets allow lenders to sell their bonds to other investors or to buy bonds from other individuals—long after the original issuing organization raised capital.


   How Bonds Work  

Bonds are commonly referred to as fixed-income securities and are one of the main asset classes that individual investors are usually familiar with, along with stocks (equities) and cash equivalents.



When companies or other entities need to raise money to finance new projects, maintain ongoing operations, or refinance existing debts, they may issue bonds directly to investors. The borrower (issuer) issues a bond that includes the terms of the loan, interest payments that will be made, and the time at which the loaned funds (bond principal) must be paid back (maturity date). The interest payment (the coupon) is part of the return that bondholders earn for loaning their funds to the issuer. The interest rate that determines the payment is called the coupon rate.



The initial price of most bonds is typically set at at par, or $1,000 face value per individual bond. The actual market price of a bond depends on a number of factors: the credit quality of the issuer, the length of time until expiration, and the coupon rate compared to the general interest rate environment at the time. The face value of the bond is what will be paid back to the lender once the bond matures.



Most bonds can be sold by the initial bondholder to other investors after they have been issued. In other words, a bond investor does not have to hold a bond all the way through to its maturity date. It is also common for bonds to be repurchased by the borrower if interest rates decline, or if the borrower’s credit has improved, and it can reissue new bonds at a lower cost.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020






Many corporate and government bonds are publicly traded; others are traded only over-the-counter (OTC) or privately between the borrower and lender.


   Characteristics of Bonds  

Most bonds share some common basic characteristics including:



Face value (par value) is the money amount the bond will be worth at maturity; it is also the reference amount the bond issuer uses when calculating interest payments. For example, say an investor purchases a bond at a premium of $1,090, and another investor buys the same bond later when it is trading at a discount for $980. When the bond matures, both investors will receive the $1,000 face value of the bond.
The coupon rate is the rate of interest the bond issuer will pay on the face value of the bond, expressed as a percentage. For example, a 5% coupon rate means that bondholders will receive 5% x $1,000 face value = $50 every year.
Coupon dates are the dates on which the bond issuer will make interest payments. Payments can be made in any interval, but the standard is semiannual payments.
The maturity date is the date on which the bond will mature and the bond issuer will pay the bondholder the face value of the bond.
The issue price is the price at which the bond issuer originally sells the bonds. In many cases, bonds are issued at par.



Two features of a bond—credit quality and time to maturity—are the principal determinants of a bond's coupon rate. If the issuer has a poor credit rating, the risk of default is greater, and these bonds pay more interest. Bonds that have a very long maturity date also usually pay a higher interest rate. This higher compensation is because the bondholder is more exposed to interest rate and inflation risks for an extended period.



Credit ratings for a company and its bonds are generated by credit rating agencies like Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s, and Fitch Ratings. The very highest quality bonds are called “investment grade” and include debt issued by the U.S. government and very stable companies, such as many utilities.



Bonds that are not considered investment grade but are not in default are called “high yield” or “junk” bonds. These bonds have a higher risk of default in the future and investors demand a higher coupon payment to compensate them for that risk.



Bonds and bond portfolios will rise or fall in value as interest rates change. The sensitivity to changes in the interest rate environment is called “duration.” The use of the term duration in this context can be confusing to new bond investors because it does not refer to the length of time the bond has before maturity. Instead, duration describes how much a bond’s price will rise or fall with a change in interest rates.



The rate of change of a bond’s or bond portfolio’s sensitivity to interest rates (duration) is called “convexity.” These factors are difficult to calculate, and the analysis required is usually done by professionals.


   Categories of Bonds  

There are four primary categories of bonds sold in the markets. However, you may also see foreign bonds issued by global corporations and governments on some platforms.



Corporate bonds are issued by companies. Companies issue bonds rather than seek bank loans for debt financing in many cases because bond markets offer more favorable terms and lower interest rates.
Municipal bonds are issued by states and municipalities. Some municipal bonds offer tax-free coupon income for investors.
Government bonds such as those issued by the U.S. Treasury. Bonds issued by the Treasury with a year or less to maturity are called “Bills,” bonds issued with one–10 years to maturity are called “notes,” and bonds issued with more than 10 years to maturity are called “bonds.” The entire category of bonds issued by a government treasury is often collectively referred to as "treasuries." Government bonds issued by national governments may be referred to as sovereign debt.
Agency bonds are those issued by government-affiliated organizations such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.


   Varieties of Bonds  

The bonds available for investors come in many different varieties. They can be separated by the rate or type of interest or coupon payment, by being recalled by the issuer, or because they have other attributes. Below, we list some of the most common variations:


  Zero-Coupon Bonds  

Zero-coupon bonds (Z-bonds) do not pay coupon payments and instead are issued at a discount to their par value that will generate a return once the bondholder is paid the full face value when the bond matures. U.S. Treasury bills are a zero-coupon bond.


  Convertible Bonds  

Convertible bonds are debt instruments with an embedded option that allows bondholders to convert their debt into stock (equity) at some point, depending on certain conditions like the share price. For example, imagine a company that needs to borrow $1 million to fund a new project. They could borrow by issuing bonds with a 12% coupon that matures in 10 years. However, if they knew that there were some investors willing to buy bonds with an 8% coupon that allowed them to convert the bond into stock if the stock’s price rose above a certain value, they might prefer to issue those.



The convertible bond may be the best solution for the company because they would have lower interest payments while the project was in its early stages. If the investors converted their bonds, the other shareholders would be diluted, but the company would not have to pay any more interest or the principal of the bond.



The investors who purchased a convertible bond may think this is a great solution because they can profit from the upside in the stock if the project is successful. They are taking more risk by accepting a lower coupon payment, but the potential reward if the bonds are converted could make that trade-off acceptable.


  Callable Bonds  

Callable bonds also have an embedded option, but it is different than what is found in a convertible bond. A callable bond is one that can be “called” back by the company before it matures. Assume that a company has borrowed $1 million by issuing bonds with a 10% coupon that mature in 10 years. If interest rates decline (or the company’s credit rating improves) in year five when the company could borrow for 8%, they will call or buy the bonds back from the bondholders for the principal amount and reissue new bonds at a lower coupon rate.



A callable bond is riskier for the bond buyer because the bond is more likely to be called when it is rising in value. Remember, when interest rates are falling, bond prices rise. Because of this, callable bonds are not as valuable as bonds that aren’t callable with the same maturity, credit rating, and coupon rate.


  Puttable Bond  

A puttable bond allows the bondholders to put or sell the bond back to the company before it has matured. This is valuable for investors who are worried that a bond may fall in value, or if they think interest rates will rise and they want to get their principal back before the bond falls in value.



The bond issuer may include a put option in the bond that benefits the bondholders in return for a lower coupon rate or just to induce the bond sellers to make the initial loan. A puttable bond usually trades at a higher value than a bond without a put option but with the same credit rating, maturity, and coupon rate because it is more valuable to the bondholders.



The possible combinations of embedded puts, calls, and convertibility rights in a bond are endless and each one is unique. There isn’t a strict standard for each of these rights and some bonds will contain more than one kind of “option,” which can make comparisons difficult. Generally, individual investors rely on bond professionals to select individual bonds or bond funds that meet their investing goals.


   How Bonds Are Priced  

The market prices bonds are based on their particular characteristics. A bond's price changes on a daily basis, just like that of any other publicly traded security, where supply and demand at any given moment determine that observed price.



But there is a logic to how bonds are valued. Up to this point, we've talked about bonds as if every investor holds them to maturity. It's true that if you do this you're guaranteed to get your principal back plus interest; however, a bond does not have to be held to maturity. At any time, a bondholder can sell their bonds in the open market, where the price can fluctuate, sometimes dramatically.



The price of a bond changes in response to changes in interest rates in the economy. This is due to the fact that for a fixed-rate bond, the issuer has promised to pay a coupon based on the face value of the bond—so for a $1,000 par, 10% annual coupon bond, the issuer will pay the bondholder $100 each year.



Say that prevailing interest rates are also 10% at the time that this bond is issued, as determined by the rate on a short-term government bond. An investor would be indifferent to investing in the corporate bond or the government bond, since both would return $100. However, imagine a little while later, that the economy has taken a turn for the worse and interest rates dropped to 5%. Now, the investor can only receive $50 from the government bond but would still receive $100 from the corporate bond.



This difference makes the corporate bond much more attractive. So investors in the market will bid up to the price of the bond until it trades at a premium that equalizes the prevailing interest rate environment—in this case, the bond will trade at a price of $2,000 so that the $100 coupon represents 5%. Likewise, if interest rates soared to 15%, then an investor could make $150 from the government bond and would not pay $1,000 to earn just $100. This bond would be sold until it reached a price that equalized the yields, in this case to a price of $666.67.


   Bond Prices and Interest Rates  

This is why the famous statement that a bond’s price varies inversely with interest rates works. When interest rates go up, bond prices fall in order to have the effect of equalizing the interest rate on the bond with prevailing rates, and vice versa.



Another way of illustrating this concept is to consider what the yield on our bond would be given a price change, instead of given an interest rate change. For example, if the price were to go down from $1,000 to $800, then the yield goes up to 12.5%.



This happens because you are getting the same guaranteed $100 on an asset that is worth $800 ($100/$800). Conversely, if the bond goes up in price to $1,200, the yield shrinks to 8.33% ($100/$1,200).






Bond prices in the market react inversely to changes in interest rates.


   Yield-to-Maturity (YTM)  

The yield-to-maturity (YTM) of a bond is another way of considering a bond’s price. YTM is the total return anticipated on a bond if the bond is held until the end of its lifetime. Yield to maturity is considered a long-term bond yield but is expressed as an annual rate. In other words, it is the internal rate of return of an investment in a bond if the investor holds the bond until maturity and if all payments are made as scheduled.



YTM is a complex calculation but is quite useful as a concept for evaluating the attractiveness of one bond relative to other bonds of different coupons and maturity in the market. The formula for YTM involves solving for the interest rate in the following equation, which is no easy task, and therefore most bond investors interested in YTM will use a computer:


















YTM


=




Face Value


Present Value



n



−


1







\begin{aligned} &\text{YTM} = \sqrt[n] { \frac { \text{Face Value} }{ \text{Present Value} } } - 1 \\ \end{aligned}


​YTM=nPresent ValueFace Value​​−1​



We can also measure the anticipated changes in bond prices given a change in interest rates with a measure known as the duration of a bond. Duration is expressed in units of the number of years since it originally referred to zero-coupon bonds, whose duration is its maturity.



For practical purposes, however, duration represents the price change in a bond given a 1% change in interest rates. We call this second, more practical definition the modified duration of a bond.



The duration can be calculated to determine the price sensitivity to interest rate changes of a single bond, or for a portfolio of many bonds. In general, bonds with long maturities, and also bonds with low coupons have the greatest sensitivity to interest rate changes. A bond’s duration is not a linear risk measure, meaning that as prices and rates change, the duration itself changes, and convexity measures this relationship.


   Bond Example  

A bond represents a promise by a borrower to pay a lender their principal and usually interest on a loan. Bonds are issued by governments, municipalities, and corporations. The interest rate (coupon rate), principal amount, and maturities will vary from one bond to the next in order to meet the goals of the bond issuer (borrower) and the bond buyer (lender). Most bonds issued by companies include options that can increase or decrease their value and can make comparisons difficult for non-professionals. Bonds can be bought or sold before they mature, and many are publicly listed and can be traded with a broker.



While governments issue many bonds, corporate bonds can be purchased from brokerages. If you're interested in this investment, you'll need to pick a broker. You can take a look at Investopedia's list of the best online stock brokers to get an idea of which brokers would best suit your needs. 



Because fixed-rate coupon bonds will pay the same percentage of their face value over time, the market price of the bond will fluctuate as that coupon becomes more or less attractive compared to the prevailing interest rates.



Imagine a bond that was issued with a coupon rate of 5% and a $1,000 par value. The bondholder will be paid $50 in interest income annually (most bond coupons are split in half and paid semiannually). As long as nothing else changes in the interest rate environment, the price of the bond should remain at its par value.



However, if interest rates begin to decline and similar bonds are now issued with a 4% coupon, the original bond has become more valuable. Investors who want a higher coupon rate will have to pay extra for the bond in order to entice the original owner to sell. The increased price will bring the bond’s total yield down to 4% for new investors because they will have to pay an amount above par value to purchase the bond.



On the other hand, if interest rates rise and the coupon rate for bonds like this one rises to 6%, the 5% coupon is no longer attractive. The bond’s price will decrease and begin selling at a discount compared to the par value until its effective return is 6%.




How Do Bonds Work?
Bonds are a type of security sold by governments and corporations, as a way of raising money from investors. From the seller’s perspective, selling bonds is therefore a way of borrowing money. From the buyer’s perspective, buying bonds is a form of investment because it entitles the purchaser to guaranteed repayment of principal as well as a stream of interest payments. Some types of bonds also offer other benefits, such as the ability to convert the bond into shares in the issuing company’s stock.The bond market tends to move inversely with interest rates because bonds will trade at a discount when interest rates are rising and at a premium when interest rates are falling.




What Is an Example of a Bond?
To illustrate, consider the case of XYZ Corporation. XYZ wishes to borrow $1 million to finance the construction of a new factory but is unable to obtain this financing from a bank. Instead, XYZ decides to raise the money by selling $1 million worth of bonds to investors. Under the terms of the bond, XYZ promises to pay its bondholders 5% interest per year for five years, with interest paid semiannually. Each of the bonds has a face value of $1,000, meaning XYZ is selling a total of 1,000 bonds.




What Are Some Different Types of Bonds?
The example above is for a typical bond, but there are many special types of bonds available. For example, zero-coupon bonds do not pay interest payments during the term of the bond. Instead, their par value—the amount they pay back to the investor at the end of the term—is greater than the amount paid by the investor when they purchased the bond.Convertible bonds, on the other hand, give the bondholder the right to exchange their bond for shares of the issuing company, if certain targets are reached. Many other types of bonds exist, offering features related to tax planning, inflation hedging, and others.




Are Bonds a Good Investment?
Bonds tend to be less volatile than stocks, and are typically recommended to make up at least some portion of a diversified portfolio. Because bond prices vary inversely with interest rates, they tend to rise in value when rates are falling. If bonds are held to maturity, they will return the entire amount of principal at the end, along with the interest payments made along the way. Because of this, bonds are often good for investors who are seeking income and who want to preserve capital. In general, experts advise that as individuals get older or approach retirement, they should shift their portfolio weights more towards bonds.




How Do I Buy Bonds?
While there are some specialized bond brokers, today most online and discount brokers offer access to bond markets, and you can buy them more or less like you would with stocks. Treasury bonds and TIPS are typically sold directly via the federal government, and can be purchased via its TreasuryDirect website. You can also buy bonds indirectly via fixed-income ETFs or mutual funds that invest in a portfolio of bonds.
What Is a Bond Covenant?  

A bond covenant is a legally binding term of agreement between a bond issuer and a bondholder. Bond covenants are designed to protect the interests of both parties.



Negative or restrictive covenants forbid the issuer from undertaking certain activities; positive or affirmative covenants require the issuer to meet specific requirements.





Key Takeaways

A bond covenant sets out certain activities that must be undertaken, or what activities are forbidden, by a bond issuer.Covenants are legally binding clauses, and if breached will trigger compensatory or other legal action.Affirmative (positive) covenants are legal promises to engage in certain activities or meet certain benchmarks added to a financial contract that an issuer must follow.Restrictive (negative) covenants instead restrict a company or issuer from engaging in certain actions. 


   Understanding Bond Covenants  

Covenants are often put in place by lenders to protect themselves from borrowers defaulting on their obligations due to financial actions detrimental to themselves or the business.



All bond covenants are part of a bond's legal documentation and are part of corporate bonds and government bonds. A bond's indenture is the portion that contains the covenants, both positive and negative, and is enforceable throughout the entire life of the bond until maturity. Possible bond covenants might include restrictions on the issuer's ability to take on additional debt, requirements that the issuer provide audited financial statements to bondholders, and limitations on the issuer's ability to make new capital investments.



When an issuer violates a bond covenant, it is considered to be in technical default. A common penalty for violating a bond covenant is the downgrading of a bond's rating, which could make it less attractive to investors and increase the issuer's borrowing costs.



For example, Moody's, one of the major credit rating agencies in the United States, rates a bond's covenant quality on a scale of 1 to 5, with five being the worst. This means that a bond with a covenant rating of five is an indication that covenants are being violated consistently.






The quality of bond covenants tracked by Moody's weakened by 36 basis points to a record high of 4.47 in Q4 2020, as a resurgent market amid the economic recovery allowed borrowers to refinance on terms much more friendly than what was available in the first half of 2020.


   Affirmative Bond Covenants  

An affirmative or positive covenant is a clause in a bond that requires the issuer (i.e., borrower) to perform specific actions. Examples of affirmative covenants include requirements to maintain adequate levels of insurance, requirements to furnish audited financial statements to the lender, compliance with applicable laws, and maintenance of proper accounting books and credit rating, if applicable.



A violation of an affirmative covenant ordinarily results in outright default. Certain bond issues may contain clauses that provide a grace period to remedy the violation. If not corrected, creditors are entitled to announce default and demand immediate repayment of principal and any accrued interest.


   Negative Bond Covenants  

Negative, or restrictive, bond covenants are put in place to make issuers refrain from certain actions that could result in the deterioration of their credit standing and ability to repay existing debt. The most common forms of negative covenants are financial ratios that an issuing firm must maintain as of the date of the financial statements. For instance, a clause may demand the ratio of total debt to earnings not to exceed some maximum amount, which ensures that a company does not burden itself with more debt than it can afford to service.



Another common negative covenant is an interest coverage ratio, which says that earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) must be greater in proportion to interest payments by a certain number of times. The ratio puts a check on a borrower to make sure that he generates enough earnings to afford paying interest.


   Example of Bond Covenant  

On June 23, 2016, Hennepin County, Minnesota, issued a bond to help finance a part of the ambulatory outpatient specialty center at the county's medical center. Fitch Ratings gave the bond a AAA rating because the bond is backed by the county's full faith, credit, and unlimited taxing power. Additionally, the rating agency gave the county's outstanding Hennepin County Regional Railroad Authority limited tax GO bonds (HCRRA) a AAA rating for the same reasons, including the fact that the county can pay the debt using ad valorem taxes on all taxable property.



The HCRRA bond debenture contained a covenant stipulating that Hennepin County can levy taxes to fund the debt service at 105% annually. The debenture also stipulated that the maximum tax rate provides strong coverage of the debt service of 21.5x MADS.
What Is a Bond Discount?  

Bond discount is the amount by which the market price of a bond is lower than its principal amount due at maturity. This amount, called its par value, is often $1,000.



The primary features of a bond are its coupon rate, face value, and market price. An issuer makes coupon payments to its bondholders as compensation for the money loaned over a fixed period.



At maturity, the principal loan amount is repaid to the investor. This amount is equal to the par or face value of the bond. Most corporate bonds have a par value of $1,000. Some bonds are sold at par, at a premium, or at a discount.





Key Takeaways

Bond discount is the amount by which the market price of a bond is lower than its principal amount due at maturity. A bond issued at a discount has its market price below the face value, creating a capital appreciation upon maturity since the higher face value is paid when the bond matures.Different bonds trade at a discount for different reasons—for example, bonds on the secondary market with fixed coupons trade at discounts when interest rates rise, while zero-coupon bonds short-term bonds are often issued at a bond discount when supply exceeds demand.


   Understanding Bond Discount  

A bond sold at par has its coupon rate equal to the prevailing interest rate in the economy. An investor who purchases this bond has a return on investment that is determined by the periodic coupon payments.



A premium bond is one for which the market price of the bond is higher than the face value. If the bond's stated interest rate is greater than those expected by the current bond market, this bond will be an attractive option for investors.



A bond issued at a discount has its market price below the face value, creating a capital appreciation upon maturity since the higher face value is paid when the bond matures. The bond discount is the difference by which a bond's market price is lower than its face value.



For example, a bond with a par value of $1,000 that is trading at $980 has a bond discount of $20. The bond discount is also used in reference to the bond discount rate, which is the interest used to price bonds via present valuation calculations.



Bonds are sold at a discount when the market interest rate exceeds the coupon rate of the bond. To understand this concept, remember that a bond sold at par has a coupon rate equal to the market interest rate. When the interest rate increases past the coupon rate, bondholders now hold a bond with lower interest payments.



These existing bonds reduce in value to reflect the fact that newer issues in the markets have more attractive rates. If the bond’s value falls below par, investors are more likely to purchase it since they will be repaid the par value at maturity. To calculate the bond discount, the present value of the coupon payments and principal value must be determined.


   Example  

For example, consider a bond with a par value of $1,000 set to mature in 3 years. The bond has a coupon rate of 3.5%, and interest rates in the market are a little higher at 5%. Since interest payments are made on a semi-annual basis, the total number of coupon payments is 3 years x 2 = 6, and the interest rate per period is 5%/2 = 2.5%. Using this information, the present value of the principal repayment at maturity is:



PVprincipal = $1,000/(1.0256) = $862.30



Now we need to calculate the present value of coupon payments. The coupon rate per period is 3.5%/2 = 1.75%. Each interest payment per period is 1.75% x $1,000 = $17.50.



PVcoupon = (17.50/1.025) + (17.50/1.0252) + (17.50/1.0253) + (17.50/1.0254) + (17.50/1.0255) + (17.50/1.0256)



PVcoupon = 17.07 + 16.66 + 16.25 + 15.85 + 15.47 + 15.09 = $96.39



The sum of the present value of coupon payments and principal is the market price of the bond.



Market Price = $862.30 + $96.39 = $958.69.



Since the market price is below the par value, the bond is trading at a discount of $1,000 - $958.69 = $41.31. The bond discount rate is, therefore, $41.31/$1,000 = 4.13%.



Bonds trade at a discount to par value for a number of reasons. Bonds on the secondary market with fixed coupons will trade at discounts when market interest rates rise. While the investor receives the same coupon, the bond is discounted to match prevailing market yields.



Discounts also occur when the bond supply exceeds demand when the bond's credit rating is lowered, or when the perceived risk of default increases. Conversely, falling interest rates or an improved credit rating may cause a bond to trade at a premium.



Short-term bonds are often issued at a bond discount, especially if they are zero-coupon bonds. However, bonds on the secondary market may trade at a bond discount, which occurs when supply exceeds demand.
What Is the Bond Equivalent Yield?  

In financial terms, the bond equivalent yield (BEY) is a metric that lets investors calculate the annual percentage yield for fixed-come securities, even if they are discounted short-term plays that only pay out on a monthly, quarterly, or semi-annual basis.



However, by having BEY figures at their fingertips, investors can compare the performance of these investments with those of traditional fixed income securities that last a year or more and produce annual yields. This empowers investors to make more informed choices when constructing their overall fixed-income portfolios.


   Understanding Bond Equivalent Yield  

To truly understand how the bond equivalent yield formula works, it's important to know the basics of bonds in general and to grasp how bonds differ from stocks.



Companies looking to raise capital may either issue stocks (equities) or bonds (fixed income). Equities, which are distributed to investors in the form of common shares, have the potential to earn higher returns than bonds, but they also carry greater risk. Specifically, if a company files for bankruptcy and subsequently liquidates its assets, its bondholders are first in line to collect any cash. Only if there are assets left over do shareholders see any money.





Key Takeaways

Fixed income securities come in different forms.Discounted (zero-coupon) bonds have shorter durations than traditional fixed income securities, which makes it impossible to calculate their annual yields.The bond equivalent yield (BEY) formula can help approximate what a discounted bond would pay annually, letting investors compare their returns with those of traditional bonds.



But even if a company remains solvent, its earnings may nonetheless fall short of expectations. This could depress share prices and cause losses to stockholders. But that same company is legally obligated to pay back its debt to bondholders, regardless of how profitable it may or may not be.



Not all bonds are the same. Most bonds pay investors annual or semi-annual interest payments. But some bonds, referred to as zero-coupon bonds, do not pay interest at all. Instead, they are issued at a deep discount to par, and investors collect returns when the bond matures. To compare the return on discounted fixed income securities with the returns on traditional bonds, analysts rely on the bond equivalent yield formula.


   A Closer Look at the Bond Equivalent Yield Formula  

The bond equivalent yield formula is calculated by dividing the difference between the face value of the bond and the purchase price of the bond, by the price of the bond. That answer is then multiplied by 365 divided by "d," which represents the number of days left until the bond's maturity. In other words, the first part of the equation is the standard return formula used to calculate traditional bond yields, while the second part of the formula annualizes the first part, to determine the equivalent figure for discounted bonds.






Although calculating the bond equivalent yield can be complicated, most modern spreadsheets contain built-in BEY calculators that can simplify the process.



Still confused? Consider the following example.



Assume an investor buys a $1,000 zero-coupon bond for $900 and expects to be paid par value in six months. In this case, the investor would pocket $100. To determine BEY, we take the bond's face value (par) and subtract the actual price paid for the bond:



$1,000 - $900 = $100



We then divide $100 by $900 to obtain the return on investment, which is 11%. The second portion of the formula annualizes 11% by multiplying it by 365 divided by the number of days until the bond matures, which is half of 365. The bond equivalent yield is thus 11% multiplied by two, which comes out to 22%.
What Is a Bond ETF?  

Bond exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are a type of exchange-traded fund (ETF) that exclusively invests in bonds. These are similar to bond mutual funds because they hold a portfolio of bonds with different particular strategies—from U.S. Treasuries to high yields—and holding period—between long-term and short-term.



Bond ETFs are passively managed and trade, similar to stock ETFs on major stock exchanges. This helps promote market stability by adding liquidity and transparency during times of stress. 





Key Takeaways

Bond ETFs are exchange-traded funds that invest in various fixed-income securities such as corporate bonds or Treasuries.Bond ETFs allow ordinary investors to gain passive exposure to benchmark bond indices in an inexpensive way.Bond ETFs are available for a variety of bond categories, including Treasuries, corporates, convertibles, and floating-rate bonds.Bond ETFs are also amenable to laddering.Investors should understand the risks to bond ETFs including the effect of interest rate changes.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Bond ETFs  

Bond ETFs trade throughout the day on a centralized exchange, unlike individual bonds, which are sold over the counter by bond brokers. The structure of traditional bonds makes it difficult for investors to find a bond with an attractive price. Bond ETFs avoid this issue by trading on major indexes, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).



As such, they can provide investors with the opportunity to gain exposure to the bond market with the ease and transparency of stock trading. Bond ETFs are also more liquid than individual bonds and mutual funds, which trade at one price per day after the market closes. And during times of distress, investors can trade a bond portfolio even if the underlying bond market is not functioning well.



Bond ETFs pay out interest through a monthly dividend, while any capital gains are paid out through an annual dividend. For tax purposes, these dividends are treated as either income or capital gains. However, the tax efficiency of bond ETFs is not a big factor, because capital gains do not play as big a part in bond returns as they do in stock returns. In addition, bond ETFs are available on a global basis.






Both bond mutual funds and bond ETFs have similarities, but the holdings within the funds and the fees charged to investors can vary.



U.S. bond ETFs experienced a record-breaking year in 2020. U.S. bond ETFs generated $168 billion in 2020. In October 2019, global bond ETF assets under management topped $1 trillion, and in October 2020, bond ETFs are one of the fast-growing categories in asset management, at $1.4 trillion.


   Types of Bond ETFs  

Various ETFs exist for the various subsectors. Some examples include:



Treasury Bond ETFs (examples include: SCHO, PLW)Corporate Bond ETFs (AGG, LKOR, SPLB)Junk Bond ETFs (JNK, HYG)International Bond ETFs (BNDX, IYH)Floating Rate Bond ETFs (FLTR)Convertible Bond ETFs (ICVT)Leveraged Bond ETFs (TMF)






Investors who are unsure of what type to invest in should consider total bond-market ETFs, which invest in the entire U.S. bond market.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Bond ETFs  

Bond ETFs offer many of the same features of an individual bond, including a regular coupon payment. One of the most significant benefits of owning bonds is the chance to receive fixed payments on a regular schedule. These payments traditionally happen every six months.



Bond ETFs, in contrast, hold assets with different maturity dates. So, at any given time, some bonds in the portfolio may be due for a coupon payment. For this reason, bond ETFs pay interest each month, with the value of the coupon varying from month to month.



Assets in the fund are continually changing and do not mature. Instead, bonds are bought and sold as they expire or exit the target age range of the fund. The challenge for the architect of a bond ETF is to ensure that it closely tracks its respective index in a cost-effective manner, despite the lack of liquidity in the bond market. Most bonds are held until maturity, so an active secondary market is typically not available for them. This makes it difficult to ensure a bond ETF encompasses enough liquid bonds to track an index. This challenge is bigger for corporate bonds than for government bonds.



The suppliers of bond ETFs get around the liquidity problem by using representative sampling, which simply means tracking only a sufficient number of bonds to represent an index. The bonds used in the representative sample tend to be the largest and most liquid in the index. Given the liquidity of government bonds, tracking errors will be less of a problem with ETFs that represent government bond indices.



Bond ETFs are a great option to gain exposure to the bond market, but there are some glaring limitations. For one thing, an investor's initial investment is at greater risk in an ETF than an individual bond. Since a bond ETF never matures, there isn't a guarantee the principal will be repaid in full. Furthermore, when interest rates rise, it tends to harm the price of the ETF, like an individual bond. As the ETF does not mature, however, it's difficult to mitigate interest rate risk.


   Bond ETFs vs. Bond Mutual Funds vs. Bond Ladders  

The decision over whether to purchase a bond fund or a bond ETF usually depends on the investment objective of the investor. If you want active management, bond mutual funds offer more choices. If you plan to buy and sell frequently, bond ETFs are a good choice. For the long term, buy-and-hold investors, bond mutual funds, and bond ETFs can meet your needs, but it's best to do your research as to the holdings in each fund.



If transparency is important, bond ETFs allow you to see the holdings within the fund at any given moment. However, if you're concerned about not being able to sell your ETF investment due to the lack of buyers in the market, a bond fund might be a better choice since you'll be able to sell your holdings back to the fund issuer. As with most investment decisions, it's important to do your research, speak with your broker or financial advisor.



The liquidity and transparency of an ETF offer advantages over a passively held bond ladder. Bond ETFs offer instant diversification and a constant duration, which means an investor needs to make only one trade to get a fixed-income portfolio up and running. A bond ladder, which requires buying individual bonds, does not offer this luxury.



One disadvantage of bond ETFs is that they charge an ongoing management fee. While lower spreads on trading bond ETFs help offset this somewhat, the issue will still prevail with a buy-and-hold strategy over the longer term. The initial trading spread advantage of bond ETFs is eroded over time by the annual management fee. The second disadvantage is that there is no flexibility to create something unique for a portfolio. For example, if an investor is looking for a high degree of income or no immediate income at all, bond ETFs may not be the appropriate product.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  Are Bond ETFs the Same As Bonds?  

No. ETFs are pooled investments that invest in a range of securities. Investors can buy and sell ETFs like shares of stock on exchanges, and bond ETFs will track the prices of the bond portfolio that it represents.


  Are Bond ETFs a Good Investment?  

Most investors should have some funds allocated to bonds. Bond ETFs tend to be more liquid and cost-effective than bond mutual funds, and offer diversified bond holdings across a range of bond types, from U.S. Treasuries to junk bonds.


  Do Bond ETFs Pay Interest or Dividends to Shareholders?  

Bond ETFs pay dividends on a monthly basis based on the interest income earned on the bonds held in the fund's portfolio.


  What Is a Bond ETF Ladder Strategy?  

A ladder strategy uses bonds of different maturities to reduce interest rate risk. This can be done with individual bonds, but also with bond ETFs of different duration.
What Is a Bond Fund?  

A bond fund, also referred to as a debt fund, is a pooled investment vehicle that invests primarily in bonds (government, municipal, corporate, convertible) and other debt instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities (MBS). The primary goal of a bond fund is often that of generating monthly income for investors.



Both bond mutual funds and bond exchange traded funds (ETF)  are available to most investors.





Key Takeaways

A bond fund invests primarily in a portfolio of fixed-income securities.Bond funds provide instant diversification for investors for a low required minimum investment.Due to the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices, a long-term bond has greater interest rate risk than a short-term bond.


   Understanding Bond Funds  

A bond fund is simply a mutual fund that invests solely in bonds. For many investors, a bond fund is a more efficient way of investing in bonds than buying individual bond securities. Unlike individual bond securities, bond funds do not have a maturity date for the repayment of principal, so the principal amount invested may fluctuate from time to time.



Additionally, investors indirectly participate in the interest paid by the underlying bond securities held in the mutual fund. Interest payments are made monthly and reflect the mix of all the different bonds in the fund, which means that the interest income distribution will vary monthly.



An investor who invests in a bond fund is putting their money into a pool managed by a portfolio manager. Typically, a bond fund manager buys and sells according to market conditions and rarely holds bonds until maturity.


   Types of Bond Funds  

Most bond funds are comprised of a certain type of bond, such as corporate or government bonds, and are further defined by time period to maturity, such as short-term, intermediate-term, and long-term.



Some bond funds include only the safest of bonds, such as government bonds. Investors should note that U.S. government bonds are considered to be of the highest credit quality and are not subject to ratings. In effect, bond funds that specialize in U.S. Treasury securities, including Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS), are the safest but offer the lowest potential return.



Other funds invest in only the riskiest category of bonds—high-yield or junk bonds. Bond funds that invest in more volatile types of bonds tend to offer higher potential returns.



There are also bond funds that have a mix of the different types of bonds in order to create multi-asset class options. For investors interested in bonds, a Morningstar bond style box can be used to sort out the investing options available for bond funds. The types of bond funds available include: US government bond funds; municipal bond funds; corporate bond funds; mortgage-backed securities (MBS) funds; high-yield bond funds; emerging market bond funds; and global bond funds.






Mutual funds have been investing in bonds for many years. Some of the oldest balanced funds, which include allocations to both stock and bonds, date back to the late 1920s.


   Bond Fund Benefits  

Bond funds are attractive investment options as they are usually easier for investors to participate in than purchasing the individual bond instruments that make up the bond portfolio. By investing in a bond fund, an investor need only pay the annual expense ratio that covers marketing, administrative and professional management fees. The alternative is to purchase multiple bonds separately and deal with the transaction costs associated with each of them.



Bond funds provide instant diversification for investors for a low required minimum investment. Since a fund usually has a pool of different bonds of varying maturities, the impact of any single bond’s performance is lessened if that issuer should fail to pay interest or principal.



Another benefit of a bond fund is that it provides access to professional portfolio managers who have the expertise to research and analyze the creditworthiness of bond issuers and market conditions before buying into or selling out of the fund. For example, a fund manager may replace bonds when the issuer's credit is downgraded or when the issuer "calls," or pays off the bond before the maturity date.


   Special Considerations  

Bond funds can be sold at any time for their current market net asset value (NAV), which may result in a capital gain or loss. Individual bonds can be harder to unload.



From a tax perspective, some investors in higher tax brackets may find that they have a higher after-tax yield from a tax-free municipal bond fund investment instead of a taxable bond fund investment.



Due to the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices, a long-term bond carries greater interest rate risk than a short-term bond. Therefore, the NAV of bond funds with longer-term maturities will be impacted greatly by changes in interest rates. This, in turn, will affect how much interest income the fund can distribute to its participants monthly.


   Bond ETFs  

Bond ETFs have been around for less time than bond mutual funds, with iShares launching the first bond ETF fund in 2002. Most of these offerings seek to replicate various bond indices, although a growing number of actively managed products are also available.



ETFs often have lower fees than their mutual fund counterparts, potentially making them the more attractive choice to some investors, all else being equal. Like stocks, ETFs trade throughout the day. The prices for shares can fluctuate moment by moment and may vary quite a bit over the course of trading.



Bond ETFs operate much like closed-end funds, in that they are purchased through a brokerage account rather than directly from a fund company. Likewise, when an investor wishes to sell, ETFs must be traded on the open market. A buyer must be found because the fund company will not purchase the shares as they would for open-ended mutual funds.
What Are Bond Futures?  

Bond futures are financial derivatives that obligate the contract holder to purchase or sell a bond on a specified date at a predetermined price. A bond futures contract trades on a futures exchange market and is bought or sold through a brokerage firm that offers futures trading. The terms (price and the expiration date) of the contract are decided at the time the future is purchased or sold.


   Bond Futures Explained  

A futures contract is an agreement entered into by two parties. One party agrees to buy, and the other party agrees to sell an underlying asset at a predetermined price on a specified date in the future. On the settlement date of the futures contract, the seller is obligated to deliver the asset to the buyer. The underlying asset of a futures contract could either be a commodity or a financial instrument, such as a bond.





Key Takeaways

Bond futures are contracts that entitle the contract holder to purchase a bond on a specified date at a price determined today.A bond futures contract trades on a futures exchange and is bought and sold through a brokerage firm that offers futures trading.Bond futures are used by speculators to bet on the price of a bond or by hedgers to protect bond holdings.Bond futures indirectly are used to trade or hedge interest rate moves.



Bond futures are contractual agreements where the asset to be delivered is a government or Treasury bond. Bond futures are standardized by the futures exchanges and are considered among the most liquid financial products. A liquid market means that there are plenty of buyers and sellers, allowing for the free flow of trades without delays.



The bond futures contract is used for hedging, speculating, or arbitrage purposes. Hedging is a form of investing in products that provide protection to holdings. Speculating is investing in products that have a high-risk, high-reward profile. Arbitrage can occur when there's an imbalance in prices, and traders attempt to make a profit through the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset or security.



When two counterparties enter into a bond futures contract, they agree on a price where the party on the long side—the buyer—will purchase the bond from the seller who has the option of which bond to deliver and when in the delivery month to deliver the bond. For example, say a party is short—the seller—a 30-year Treasury bond, and the seller must deliver the Treasury bond to the buyer at the date specified.



A bond futures contract can be held until maturity, and they can also be closed out before the maturity date. If the party that established the position closes out before maturity, the closing trade will result in a profit or a loss from the position, depending on the value of the futures contract at the time.


   Where Bond Futures Trade  

Bond futures trade primarily on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), which is part of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). Contracts typically expire quarterly: March, June, September, and December. Examples of underlying assets for bond futures include:



13-week Treasury bills (T-bills)
2-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year Treasury notes (T-notes)
Classic and Ultra Treasury bonds (T-bonds)



Bond futures are overseen by a regulatory agency called the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The role of the CFTC includes ensuring that fair trading practices, equality, and consistency exists in the markets as well as preventing fraud.


   Bond Futures Speculation  

A bond futures contract allows a trader to speculate on a bond's price movement and lock in a price for a set future period. If a trader bought a bond futures contract and the bond's price rose and closed higher than the contract price at expiration, then the trader has a profit. At that point, the trader could take delivery of the bond or offset the buy trade with a sell trade to unwind the position with the net difference between the prices being cash-settled.



Conversely, a trader could sell a bond futures contract expecting the bond's price to decline by the expiration date. Again, an offsetting trade could be input prior to expiry, and the gain or loss could be net settled through the trader's account.



Bond futures have the potential to generate substantial profits since bond prices can fluctuate widely over time due to varying factors, including changing interest rates, market demand for bonds, and economic conditions. However, the price fluctuations in bond prices can be a double-edged sword where traders can lose a significant portion of their investment.


   Bond Futures and Margin  

Many futures contracts trade via margin, meaning an investor only needs to deposit a small percentage of the total value of the futures contract amount into the brokerage account. In other words, the futures markets typically use high leverage, and a trader does not need to put up 100% of the contract amount when entering into a trade.



A broker requires an initial margin and, although the exchanges set minimum margin requirements, the amounts can also vary depending on the broker's policies, the type of bond, and the creditworthiness of the trader. However, should the bond futures position decline sufficiently in value, the broker might issue a margin call, which is a demand for additional funds to be deposited. If the funds are not deposited, the broker can liquidate or unwind the position.






Know the implications of leverage (trading using margin) before trading futures; your brokerage firm will have information about minimum margin requirements on their website.



The risk to trading bond futures is potentially unlimited, for either the buyer or seller of the bond. Risks include the price of the underlying bond changing drastically between the exercise date and the initial agreement date. Also, the leverage used in margin trading can exacerbate the losses in bond futures trading.


   Delivery With Bond Futures  

As mentioned earlier, the seller of the bond futures can choose which bond to deliver to the buyer counterparty. The bonds that are typically delivered are called the cheapest to deliver (CTD) bonds, which are delivered on the last delivery date of the month. A CTD is the cheapest security that's allowed to satisfy the futures contract terms. The use of CTDs is common with trading Treasury bond futures since any Treasury bond can be used for delivery as long as it is within a specific maturity range and has a specific coupon or interest rate.






Futures traders typically close positions well before the chances of delivery and, in fact, many futures brokers require that their customers offset positions (or roll to later months) well before the futures expiration is at hand.


   Bond Conversion Factors  

The bonds that can be delivered are standardized through a system of conversion factors calculated according to the rules of the exchange. The conversion factor is used to equalize coupon and accrued interest differences of all delivery bonds. The accrued interest is the interest that's accumulated and yet to be paid.



If a contract specifies that a bond has a notional coupon of 6%, the conversion factor will be:



Less than one for bonds with a coupon less than 6%Greater than one for bonds with a coupon higher than 6%



Before the trading of a contract happens, the exchange will announce the conversion factor for each bond. For example, a conversion factor of 0.8112 means that a bond is approximately valued at 81% of a 6% coupon security.



The price of bond futures can be calculated on the expiry date as:



Price = (bond futures price x conversion factor) + accrued interest



The product of the conversion factor and the futures price of the bond is the forward price available in the futures market.


   Managing a Bond Futures Position  

Each day, before expiration, the long (buy) and short (sell) positions in the traders’ accounts are marked to market (MTM), or adjusted to current rates. When interest rates rise, bond prices decline—since existing fixed-rate bonds are less attractive in a rising-rate environment.



Conversely, if interest rates decrease, bond prices increase as investors rush to buy existing fixed-rate bonds with attractive rates.



For example, let's say a U.S. Treasury bond futures contract is entered into on Day One. If interest rates increase on Day Two, the value of the T-bond will decrease. The margin account of the long futures holder will be debited to reflect the loss. At the same time, the account of the short trader will be credited the profits from the price move.



Conversely, if interest rates fall instead, then bond prices will increase, and the long trader’s account will be marked to a profit, and the short account will be debited.





Pros

Traders can speculate on a bond's price movement for a future settlement date.
Bond prices can fluctuate significantly allowing the traders to earn significant profits.
Traders only have to put up a small percentage of the total futures contract's value at the onset.



Cons

The risk of significant losses exists due to margin and bond price fluctuations.
Traders are at risk of a margin call if the futures contract losses exceed the funds held on deposit with a broker.
Just as borrowing on margin can magnify gains, it can also exacerbate losses.





   Real-World Example of Bond Futures  

A trader decides to buy a five-year Treasury bond futures contract that has a $100,000 face value meaning that the $100,000 will be paid at expiration. The investor buys on margin and deposits $10,000 in a brokerage account to facilitate the trade.



The T-bond's price is $99, which equates to a $99,000 futures position. Over the next few months, the economy improves, and interest rates begin to rise and push the value of the bond lower.



Profit or loss = number of contracts * change in price * $1000



Using the formula above, we can calculate the profit or loss. Assume at expiration, the price of the T-bond is trading at $98 or $98,000. The trader has a loss of $1,000. The net difference is cash-settled, meaning the original trade (the buy) and the sale are netted through the investor's brokerage account.


   The Bottom Line  

Bond futures obligate the contract holder to either buy or sell a bond at a predetermined price on a specific date. There are benefits and drawbacks to futures trading--the consistently fluctuating market can increase profits significantly but it also puts them at greater risk. Before buying into futures, it is important to examine pros and cons and reach out to your brokerage firm about their specific policies.
What Is a Bond Ladder?  

A bond ladder is a portfolio of fixed-income securities in which each security has a significantly different maturity date.



The purpose of purchasing several smaller bonds with varying dates of maturity rather than one large bond with a single maturity date is to minimize interest-rate risk, increase liquidity, and diversify credit risk.






A bond ladder is a portfolio of fixed-income securities in which each security has a significantly different maturity date.In a bond ladder, the bonds' maturity dates are evenly spaced across several months or several years so that the proceeds are reinvested at regular intervals as the bonds mature.The purpose of purchasing several smaller bonds with varying dates of maturity rather than one large bond with a single maturity date is to minimize interest-rate risk, increase liquidity, and diversify credit risk.In order to build an ETF bond ladder, an investor simply needs to put an equal amount of money in a number of different ETFs; all with a different defined maturity date.Since callable bonds can be redeemed by the issuer before maturity, they're not ideal when building a bond ladder.


   Understanding Bond Ladder  

In a bond ladder, the bonds' maturity dates are evenly spaced across several months or several years so that the proceeds are reinvested at regular intervals as the bonds mature.



The more liquidity an investor needs, the closer together their bond maturities should be.


   Benefits of a Bond Ladder  

Investors who purchase bonds usually buy them as a conservative way to produce income. However, investors looking for a higher yield, without reducing the credit quality, usually need to purchase a bond with a longer maturity. Doing so exposes the investor to three types of risk: interest rate risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.



When interest rates increase, bond prices react inversely. This especially holds true the longer the maturity date is on a bond. A bond that matures in 10 years fluctuates less in price than a bond that matures in 30 years. If the investor needs some funds before the bond’s maturity, the rise in interest rates causes a lower price for the bond on the open market.



When interest rates rise, the demand for lower interest-paying bonds decreases. This leaves the bond with less liquidity since bond buyers can find similar maturity bonds with higher interest payments. The only way to get a more favorable price in this scenario is to wait for interest rates to go down, which causes the bond to go back up in price.



Buying a large position in one bond could also leave the investor exposed to credit risk.



Similar to owning only one stock in a portfolio, a bond’s price is dependent on the credit of the underlying company or institution. If anything lowers the credit quality of the bonds, the price is negatively impacted immediately.



For example, Puerto Rico bonds were once very popular, but when the province had financial issues, the bond prices immediately plummeted.



Using a bond ladder satisfies these issues. Since there are several bonds with a staggered maturity, bonds are constantly maturing and being reinvested in the current interest rate environment.



If the investor needs liquidity, selling the shorter maturity bonds offers the most favorable pricing. Since there are several different bond issues, the credit risk is spread across the portfolio and properly diversified. If one of the bonds has a downgrade in credit quality, only a portion of the entire ladder is affected.






Generally speaking, you should aim to have at least 10 "rungs" in your bond ladder. All things equal, the more rungs in the ladder, the higher the diversification, liquidity, and yield stability.


   Example of a Bond Ladder  

Here's an example of a simple bond ladder that retail investors can create.



In order to construct a 10-year Treasury bond ladder, an investor would simply buy the following 10 ETFs in equal amounts:



The iShares iBonds Dec 2021 Term Treasury ETF (IBTA)The iShares iBonds Dec 2022 Term Treasury ETF (IBTB)The iShares iBonds Dec 2023 Term Treasury ETF (IBTD)The iShares iBonds Dec 2024 Term Treasury ETF (IBTE)The iShares iBonds Dec 2025 Term Treasury ETF (IBTF)The iShares iBonds Dec 2026 Term Treasury ETF (IBTG)The iShares iBonds Dec 2027 Term Treasury ETF (IBTH)The iShares iBonds Dec 2028 Term Treasury ETF (IBTI)The iShares iBonds Dec 2029 Term Treasury ETF (IBTJ)The iShares iBonds Dec 2030 Term Treasury ETF (IBTK)


   Bond Ladder FAQs  
  Should You Build a Bond Ladder With Callable Bonds?  

No. Since callable bonds can be redeemed by the issuer before maturity, they're not ideal when building a bond ladder.


  How Do You Build an ETF Bond Ladder?  

In order to build an ETF bond ladder, an investor simply needs to put an equal amount of money in a number of different ETFs; all with a different defined maturity date.



For example, to build a 10-year corporate bond ladder, an investor could purchase the following ETFs in equal amounts:



The Invesco BulletShares 2021 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCL)The Invesco BulletShares 2022 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCM)The Invesco BulletShares 2023 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCN)The Invesco BulletShares 2024 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCO)The Invesco BulletShares 2025 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCP)The Invesco BulletShares 2026 Corporate Bond ETF (BSJQ)The Invesco BulletShares 2027 Corporate Bond ETF (BSJR)The Invesco BulletShares 2028 Corporate Bond ETF (BSJS)The Invesco BulletShares 2029 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCT)The Invesco BulletShares 2030 Corporate Bond ETF (BSCU)


  What Are Alternatives to a Bond Ladder?  

Instead of building a bond ladder, an investor can purchase an ETF that holds a diversified portfolio of bonds of varying durations.



Popular all-duration ETFs include the iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond ETF (ASG), the Vanguard Total Bond Market ETF (BND), the Vanguard Total International Bond ETF (BNDX), and the iShares TIPS Bond ETF.
What Is the Bond Market?  

The bond market is often referred to as the debt market, fixed-income market, or credit market. It is the collective name given to all trades and issues of debt securities. Governments issue bonds to raise capital to pay debts or fund infrastructural improvements. Publicly traded companies issue bonds to finance business expansion projects or maintain ongoing operations.





Key Takeaways

Governments use proceeds from bonds to finance infrastructural improvements and pay debts.Companies issue bonds to raise capital to maintain operations, grow product lines, or open new locations.Bonds are either issued on the primary market or traded on the secondary market, in which investors may purchase existing debt via brokers or other third parties.












Investopedia / Danie Drankwalter


   History of the Bond Markets  

Loans that were assignable or transferrable to others appeared as early as ancient Mesopotamia, where debts denominated in units of grain weight could be exchanged among debtors. The recorded history of debt instruments dates back to 2400 B.C.⁠ via a clay tablet discovered at Nippur, now present-day Iraq. This artifact cites a guarantee for payment of grain and the consequences if the debt was not repaid.



In the middle ages, governments issued sovereign debt to fund wars. The Bank of England, the world's oldest central bank, was established to raise money to rebuild the British navy in the 17th century through bonds. The first U.S. Treasury bonds were issued to help fund the military, first in the war of independence from the British crown, and again in the form of "Liberty Bonds" to raise funds to fight World War I.















A bond from the Dutch East India Company (VOC), dating from Nov. 7, 1623. The VOC was the first company in history to widely issue bonds and shares of stock to the general public.



Early chartered corporations such as the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and the Mississippi Company issued debt instruments before they issued stocks. These bonds, such as in the image above, were "guarantees" or "sureties" and were hand-written to the bondholder.


   Buying and Trading Bonds  

Bonds are traded on the primary market and the secondary market. The primary market is the "new issues" market, and transactions occur directly between the bond issuers and the bond buyers. The primary market holds brand-new debt securities not previously offered to the public.



In the secondary market, securities previously sold in the primary market are bought and sold. Investors can purchase these bonds from a broker, who acts as an intermediary between the buying and selling parties. These secondary market issues may be packaged as pension funds, mutual funds, and life insurance policies.


   Types of Bonds  
  Corporate Bonds  

Companies issue corporate bonds to raise money for current operations, expanding product lines, or opening up new manufacturing facilities. Corporate bonds are commonly longer-term debt instruments with a maturity of at least one year and are commonly categorized into two types based on the credit rating assigned to the bond and its issuer.



Investment grade signifies a high-quality bond that presents a relatively low risk of default. Bond-rating firms like Standard & Poor’s and Moody's use different designations, consisting of the upper- and lower-case letters "A" and "B," to identify a bond's credit quality rating.



Junk bonds or high-yield bonds carry a higher risk. Junk bonds represent bonds issued by companies that are financially struggling and have a high risk of defaulting, not paying their interest payments, or repaying the principal to investors. Junk bonds are also called high-yield bonds since the higher yield is needed to help offset any risk of default.


  Government Bonds  

Nationally-issued government bonds or sovereign bonds entice buyers by paying out the face value listed on the bond certificate on the agreed maturity date with periodic interest payments. This makes government bonds attractive to conservative investors and considered the least risky. In the U.S., government bonds are known as Treasuries and the most active and liquid bond market.



Treasury Bill (T-Bill): a short-term U.S. government debt obligation backed by the Treasury Department with a maturity of one year or less
Treasury note (T-note): a marketable U.S. government debt security with a fixed interest rate and a maturity between one and ten years
Treasury bonds (T-bonds): government debt securities issued by the U.S. Federal government with maturities greater than 20 years






In August 2023, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term ratings of the United States to "AA+" from "AAA" based on the expected fiscal deterioration over the next three years, a high and growing general government debt burden, and the erosion of governance relative to "AA" and "AAA" peers over the last two decades with repeated debt limit standoffs and untimely resolutions.


  Municipal Bonds  

Municipal bonds or "muni" bonds are locally issued by states, cities, special-purpose districts, public utility districts, school districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, and other government-owned entities that seek to raise cash to fund various projects. Municipal bonds are commonly tax-free at the federal level and can be tax-exempt at state or local tax levels, making them attractive to qualified tax-conscious investors.



A general obligation bond (GO bond) is issued by government entities not backed by revenue from a specific project. Some GO bonds are backed by property taxes or payable from general funds. A revenue bond secures principal and interest payments through sales, fuel, hotel occupancy, or other taxes. When a municipality is a conduit issuer of bonds, a third party covers interest and principal payments.


  Mortgage-Backed Bonds (MBS)  

Mortgage-backed security (MBS) issues consist of pooled mortgages on real estate properties. The investor who buys a mortgage-backed security is essentially lending money to homebuyers through their lenders. These typically pay monthly interest.



The MBS is a type of asset-backed security (ABS). During the subprime mortgage meltdown of 2007-2010, this type of security relied on failed mortgages to support it.


  Emerging Market Bonds  

Governments and companies in emerging market economies issue bonds that provide growth opportunities but with greater risk than domestic or developed bond markets. In the 1980s, U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady began a program to help global economies restructure their debt via bond issues denominated in U.S. dollars.



Many countries in Latin America issued these Brady bonds throughout the next two decades, marking an upswing in the issuance of emerging market debt. Bonds are issued in developing nations and by corporations in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.



Investing in emerging market bonds includes the standard risks that accompany all debt issues, such as the variables of the issuer's economic or financial performance and the ability of the issuer to meet payment obligations. These risks can be heightened by the political and economic volatility in developing nations. Emerging market risks also include exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations.


   Bond Indices  

Just as the S&P 500 and the Russell indices track equities, bond indices like the Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index, the Merrill Lynch Domestic Master, and the Citigroup U.S. Broad Investment-Grade Bond Index track and measure corporate bond portfolio performance.



The Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, the 'Agg,' is a market-weighted benchmark index. It provides investors with a standard against which they can evaluate a fund or security. The index includes government and corporate bonds and investment-grade corporate debt instruments with issues higher than $300 million and maturities of one year or more. The Agg is a total return benchmark index for many bond funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).















Courtesy Bloomberg.



   Bond Market vs. Stock Market  

Bonds represent debt financing, while stocks are equity financing. Bonds are a form of credit where the bond issuer must repay the bond owner's principal plus additional interest. Stocks do not entitle the shareholder to any return of capital.



Because of their legal protections and guarantees, bonds are typically less risky than stocks and command lower expected returns than stocks. Stocks are inherently riskier than bonds and have the potential for bigger gains or bigger losses.



Both stock and bond markets tend to be very active and liquid. Bond prices tend to be sensitive to interest rate changes, varying inversely to interest rate moves. Stock prices are sensitive to changes in future profitability and growth potential.






Investors without access to bond markets can still invest in bonds through bond-focused mutual funds and ETFs.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Bonds  

Financial experts commonly recommend a well-diversified portfolio with some allocation to the bond market. Bonds can be less volatile than stocks with lower returns and carry credit and interest rate risk. Owning too many bonds is considered overly conservative over long time horizons.





Pros

Less risky and less volatile than stocks.
Wide range of issuers and bond types to choose from.
Bondholders have preference over shareholders in the event of bankruptcy.



Cons

Lower risk translates to lower return.
Buying bonds in the primary market is less accessible for ordinary investors.
Exposure to default risk and interest rate risk.







What Is the Bond Market and How Does It Work?
The bond market is where various debt instruments are sold by corporations and governments. Bonds are issued to raise debt capital to fund operations or seek growth opportunities. Issuers promise to repay the original investment amount plus interest.




Are Bonds a Good Investment?
Like any investment, the expected return of a bond must be weighed against its risk. The riskier the issuer, the higher the yield investors will demand. Junk bonds pay higher interest rates but are also at greater risk of default. U.S. Treasuries pay very low-interest rates but have low risk.




Can Investors Lose Money in the Bond Market?
Yes. While not as risky as stocks, bond prices fluctuate and can go down. If interest rates rise, the price of a highly-rated bond will decrease. The sensitivity of a bond's price to interest rate changes is known as its duration. A bond will also lose significant value if its issuer defaults or goes bankrupt, and it can no longer repay in full the initial investment nor the interest owed.


   The Bottom Line  

The bond market includes debt securities issued by governments and corporations, both domestic and foreign. Bonds may also be structured with fixed or variable interest rates and may or may not be convertible into equity. Bonds are typically thought to be less volatile than stocks since they pay regular interest and return principal upon maturity.
What Is a Bond Quote?  

A bond quote is the last price at which a bond traded, expressed as a percentage of par value and converted to a point scale. Par value is generally set at 100, representing 100% of a bond's face value of $1,000. For example, if a corporate bond is quoted at 99, that means it is trading at 99% of face value. In this case, the cost to buy each bond is $990.





Key Takeaways

A bond quote refers to the last price at which a bond traded.Bond quotes are expressed as a percentage of par (face value) and converted to a point scale.The par value is traditionally set at 100, which represents 100% of a bond's $1,000 face value.Bond quotes may also be expressed as fractions.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   How a Bond Quote Works  

Price quotes for bonds are represented by a percentage of the bond's par value, which is converted to a numeric value, then multiplied by 10, in order to determine the cost per bond. Bond quotes can also be expressed as fractions.



For example, corporate bonds are quoted in 1/8 increments, while government bills, notes, and bonds are quoted in increments of 1/32. Therefore, a bond quote of 99 1/4 represents 99.25% of par. Converting the percentage to 99.25 and multiplying by 10 results in a cost of $992.5 per bond. In addition to being quoted as a percentage of par value, bonds may also be quoted with a yield to maturity (YTM).






The bond price and quote the calculation is fairly straightforward, compared to other types of investments.


   Types of Bond Quotes  

In addition to the last price at which a trade occurred, full bond quotes include bid and ask prices, which are calculated in the same manner as the quote on the last trade. The bid is the highest price level buyers are willing to pay for the bond at the time of the quote. For bond sellers seeking immediate trade executions, the bid is the likely price for the trade. The ask is the lowest price level on bonds to be sold at the time of the quote.



The difference between the bid and the ask price is known as the "spread." In a full quote, bonds with high levels of liquidity, such as Treasuries, generally have spreads of a few pennies between the bid and the ask price. On the other hand, the spreads on corporate bonds with lower levels of liquidity can exceed $1. For example, a full quote on an illiquid corporate bond could list a last trade of $98, with a bid of $97 and an ask price of $99.



Bonds can also be quoted in terms of their yields to maturity, which is commonly done for reference purposes, rather than trade execution. For example, the financial media often quotes the 10-year Treasury note by its YTM, to give investors a reference point for bond price fluctuations.
What is a Bond Rating?  

A bond rating is a way to measure the creditworthiness of a bond, which corresponds to the cost of borrowing for an issuer. These ratings typically assign a letter grade to bonds that indicates their credit quality. Private independent rating services such as Standard & Poor's, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings Inc. evaluate a bond issuer's financial strength, or its ability to pay a bond's principal and interest, in a timely fashion.





Key Takeaways

A bond rating is a letter-based credit scoring scheme used to judge the quality and creditworthiness of a bond.Investment grade bonds assigned “AAA” to “BBB-“ ratings from Standard & Poor's, and Aaa to Baa3 ratings from Moody’s. Junk bonds have lower ratings.The higher a bond's rating, the lower the interest rate it will carry, all else equal.


   Breaking Down Bond Rating  

Most bonds carry ratings provided by at least one of the following three chief independent rating agencies:



Standard & Poor'sMoody's Investors ServiceFitch Ratings Inc.



To determine a bond's rating, these agencies conduct a thorough financial analysis of a bond's issuing body, whether they are U.S. Treasuries or bonds from international corporations. Based on each agency’s individual set of criteria, analysts determine the entity’s ability to pay their bills and remain liquid, while also taking into consideration a bond's future expectations and outlook. The agencies then declare a bond's overall rating, based on the collection of these data points.


   Bond Ratings Affect Pricing, Yield, and a Reflection of Long-Term Outlook  

Bond ratings are vital to altering investors to the quality and stability of the bond in question. These ratings consequently greatly influence interest rates, investment appetite, and bond pricing.



Higher rated bonds, known as investment grade bonds, are viewed as safer and more stable investments. Such offerings are tied to publicly-traded corporations and government entities that boast positive outlooks. Investment grade bonds contain “AAA” to “BBB-“ ratings from Standard and Poor's, and "Aaa" to "Baa3" ratings from Moody’s. Investment grade bonds usually see bond yields increase as ratings decrease. U.S. Treasury bonds are the most common AAA-rated bond securities.



Non-investment grade bonds (junk bonds) usually carry Standard and Poor's ratings of “BB+” to “D” ("Baa1" to "C" for Moody’s). In some cases, bonds of this nature are given “not rated” status. Although bonds carrying these ratings are deemed to be higher-risk investments, they nevertheless attract certain investors who are drawn to the high yields they offer. But some junk bonds are saddled with liquidity issues, and can feasibly default, leaving investors with nothing. A prime example of non-investment grade bond was that issued by Southwestern Energy Company, which Standard & Poor's assigned a "BB+" rating, reflecting its negative outlook.





Important

In August 2023, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term ratings of the United States to "AA+" from "AAA" due to the anticipated fiscal deterioration over the next three years, increasing government debt burden, and the erosion of governance related to 'AA' and 'AAA' rated peers over the last two decades that has resulted in repeat debt limit standoffs and 11th-hour resolutions.


   Independent Rating Agencies Get Tripped Up In 2008 Downturn  

Many Wall Street watchers believe that the independent bond rating agencies played a pivotal roll in contributing to the 2008 economic downturn. In fact, it came to light that during the lead-up to the crisis, rating agencies were bribed to provide falsely high bond ratings, thereby inflating their worth. One example of this fraudulent practice occurred in 2008, when Moody's downgraded 83% of $869 billion in mortgage-backed securities, which were given a rating of "AAA" just the year before.



In short: long-term investors should carry the majority of their bond exposure in more reliable, income-producing bonds that carry investment grade bond ratings. Speculators and distressed investors who make a living off of high-risk, high-reward opportunities, should consider turning to non-investment grade bonds.




Why Do Bonds With Lower Ratings Have Higher Yields?
Bonds with lower ratings have a greater risk of default than bonds with higher ratings. These bonds tend to have higher yields so as to still be able to entice investors, despite bringing greater risk.




What Is a Junk Bond?
Bonds that are non-investment grade are considered to be high-yield or "junk" bonds. They are considered to be high risk and usually have ratings of "BB+" to "D" or not rated. Investors can profit through buying junk bonds, but they also are at greater risk of losing their investment, as these kinds of companies tend to have liquidity issues.




What Is an Investment Grade Bond?
An investment-grade bond is a so-called high quality or low risk bond. It is considered to be a fairly safe bet and have a very low rate of default. Bonds rated "AAA," "AA," "A," and "BBB" are considered investment grade.


   The Bottom Line   

A bond rating is a grading given to a bond that indicates its creditworthiness. Bond ratings are assigned by agencies, such as Moody's, Standard & Poor's, and Fitch Ratings, and reflect an analysis of the bond issuer's financial strength or capacity to pay a bond's principal and interest.



The rating organizations assign grades to the bond, such as "AAA," which indicates lower risk, or "B-," which indicates greater risk. Higher-risk bonds offer higher-yields, while lower-risk bonds offer lower yields.
What Are Bond Rating Agencies?  

Bond rating agencies are companies that assess the creditworthiness of both debt securities and their issuers. These agencies publish the ratings used by investment professionals to determine the likelihood that the debt will be repaid.





Key Takeaways

Bond rating agencies are companies that assess the creditworthiness of both debt securities and their issuers.The three primary bond rating agencies used in the U.S. are Standard & Poor's Global Ratings, Moody's, and Fitch Ratings.The bond rating agencies provide useful information to the markets and help investors save on research costs.Rating agencies are regulated by the SEC in addition to various reform acts such as CRARA and Dodd-Frank.Bond rating agencies were heavily criticized early in the 21st century for assigning flawed ratings, particularly for mortgage-backed securities.


   Understanding Bond Rating Agencies  

The three primary bond rating agencies in the U.S. are Standard & Poor's Global Ratings, Moody's, and Fitch Ratings. Each uses a unique letter-based rating system to quickly convey to investors whether a bond carries a low or high default risk and whether the issuer is financially stable.



Standard & Poor's highest rating is AAA, and a bond is no longer considered investment grade if it falls to BB+ status. The lowest rating, D, indicates that the bond is in default. That means the issuer is delinquent in making interest payments and principal repayments to its bondholders.



In general, Moody's assigns bond credit ratings of Aaa, Aa, A, Baa, Ba, B, Caa, Ca, C. Standard & Poor's and Fitch assign bond credit ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, CCC, CC, C, and D, with the latter denoting a bond issuer in default.



The agencies rate bonds at the time they are issued. They periodically reevaluate bonds and their issuers to see if they should change the ratings. Bond ratings are important because they affect the interest rates that companies and government agencies pay on their issued bonds.



The top three bond rating agencies are private firms that rate corporate and municipal bonds based on the associated degree of risk. They sell the ratings for publication in the financial press and daily newspapers. Other bond rating agencies in the United States include Kroll Bond Rating Agency (KBRA), Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, and Egan-Jones Ratings (EJR) Company.


   Bond Rating Agency Methodologies  

To give credit ratings to organizations like governments, businesses, and financial instruments, rating agencies utilize a variety of approaches. The approaches and methodologies may include but are not limited to:



Financial Indicators: Rating agencies examine financial variables to determine the creditworthiness of a company. Financial statements, cash flow analysis, debt ratios, profitability measurements, and liquidity measures are a few examples of these indicators.Industry Analysis: When rating a company, rating agencies take into account the risks and characteristics of the industry in which it works. They assess the market circumstances, competitive factors, regulatory environment, industry dynamics, and possible dangers that are exclusive to that sector.Macroeconomics: Rating agencies examine macroeconomic elements that may have an impact on an entity's creditworthiness. GDP expansion, inflation, interest rates, currency rates, and political stability are a few examples of these variables.



In addition to the methodologies above, rating agencies may apply variations across each rating agency. For example, various credit ratings for the same company may vary across rating agencies due to the varying weights of these methodologies.



In addition, rating agencies may have a variety of specialties and areas of interest. Some agencies may have areas of expertise in particular industries or classes of financial instruments, which can cause differences in the breadth of industry research and the comprehension of risks unique to each sector.


   Rating Agency Regulatory Framework  

Rating agencies are subject to different regulatory frameworks. At the top, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is the principal regulatory body in charge of regulating rating agencies in the United States. The SEC has the authority to register, regulate, and oversee nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs) which are the rating agencies recognized by the SEC as credible and influential in the U.S. market.



The U.S. Congress approved the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act (CRARA) in 2006 in reaction to the financial crisis of 2008.



The SEC has established a code of conduct that NRSROs must follow. The code of conduct places a strong emphasis on the necessity for independence, avoiding conflicts of interest, and giving ratings that are fair and truthful. Additionally, it requires that techniques, rating results, and any conflicts of interest be disclosed.



Last, in addition to local laws, there may be international regulatory frameworks that apply to rating agencies. For instance, the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) has produced a Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating Agencies that outlines international standards and principles for the operations of rating agencies.






Last updated in 2021, a study by the Federal Reserve found that a data set of 2,000 credit ratings strongly indicated there was no influence by the rating agency's conflict of interest.


   Benefits of Bond Rating Agencies  

Although bond rating agencies were heavily criticized early in the 21st century, they continue to perform valuable functions for investors. A variety of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) depend on bond ratings for their purchases. For example, an investment-grade bond ETF will buy or sell bonds depending on the ratings that they receive from the bond rating agencies. In this way, the agencies act similarly to fund managers charged with investing in securities of sufficient quality.



The bond rating agencies provide useful information to the markets; however, they are not responsible for the often irrational ways that investors and funds respond to that information. Even managed mutual funds frequently have rules that require them to sell bonds that fall below a specific credit rating. A rating downgrade can cause a downward spiral of forced selling, creating bargains for investors in fallen angel bonds.


   Criticism of Bond Rating Agencies  

Since the 2008 credit crisis, rating agencies have been criticized for not identifying all of the risks that could impact a security's creditworthiness. In particular, they were blamed for giving high credit ratings to mortgage-backed securities (MBS) that turned out to be high-risk investments.



Investors continue to be concerned about possible conflicts of interest. Bond issuers pay the agencies for the service of providing ratings, and no one wants to pay for a low rating. Because of these and other shortcomings, ratings should not be the only factor investors rely on when assessing the risk of a particular bond investment.



On the other hand, bond rating agencies have also been criticized for causing financial losses by making dubious rating downgrades. Most famously, S&P downgraded the U.S. federal government's credit rating from AAA to AA+ during the 2011 debt ceiling crisis.






In Aug. 2023, Fitch downgraded the U.S. government's rating from AAA to AA+ due to "the expected fiscal deterioration over the next three years, a high and growing general government debt burden, and the erosion of governance relative to 'AA' and 'AAA' rated peers over the last two decades that has manifested in repeated debt limit standoffs and last-minute resolutions."



In point of fact, the Federal Reserve can always print more money to pay interest. Furthermore, the U.S. government showed no signs of defaulting during the following decade. Nonetheless, stock prices experienced a significant correction in 2011. Some innocent companies ended up paying higher interest on their debts; however, the market showed its lack of confidence in S&P's downgrade by sending U.S. Treasury bond prices higher.



The relatively discrete way in which the agencies rate bonds also generally makes market volatility unnecessarily high. The most extreme case occurs when the agencies downgrade a nation's debt from investment grade to junk status. A more continuous system would give markets more time to adjust.




How Do Rating Agencies Assign Credit Ratings?
Rating agencies assign credit ratings based on their methodologies, which consider factors like financial indicators, industry analysis, and macroeconomic conditions. They analyze an entity's financial health, industry risks, and broader economic factors to determine the likelihood of default or creditworthiness. The ratings typically range from AAA (highest) to D (default).




How Transparent Are Rating Agencies in Their Methodologies?
Rating agencies vary in their transparency regarding methodologies. While they disclose some aspects of their processes, they may not provide full details due to proprietary concerns. Some agencies offer more transparency by providing information about their methodologies, assumptions, and rating rationales, while others may provide relatively less information, which can impact understanding and scrutiny.




How Do Rating Agencies Impact Investments and Borrowing Costs?
Credit ratings play a significant role in investment decisions and borrowing costs. Highly-rated entities benefit from lower borrowing costs as investors perceive them as less risky. A downgrade or upgrade in a credit rating can impact an entity's ability to access capital markets and affect the pricing of bonds, loans, and other financial instruments.




How Do Rating Agencies Assess Non-Financial Sectors, Such as Governments?
Rating agencies assess non-financial sectors, including governments, by analyzing factors specific to those sectors. For governments, they consider fiscal discipline, economic growth prospects, debt levels, political stability, and institutional strength. Be mindful that each rating agency has its own methodology and criteria to evaluate the creditworthiness of governments and other non-financial sectors.


   The Bottom Line  

Rating agencies in the United States, regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), assess the creditworthiness of entities and assign credit ratings. They consider financial indicators, industry analysis, and macroeconomic factors in their methodologies. The major rating agencies in the U.S. include Standard & Poor's (S&P), Moody's, and Fitch Ratings. While they follow similar principles, there are differences in their methodologies, rating scales, and expertise.
What Is Bond Valuation?  

Bond valuation is a technique for determining the theoretical fair value of a particular bond. Bond valuation includes calculating the present value of a bond's future interest payments, also known as its cash flow, and the bond's value upon maturity, also known as its face value or par value. Because a bond's par value and interest payments are fixed, an investor uses bond valuation to determine what rate of return is required for a bond investment to be worthwhile.





Key Takeaways

Bond valuation is a way to determine the theoretical fair value (or par value) of a particular bond.It involves calculating the present value of a bond's expected future coupon payments, or cash flow, and the bond's value upon maturity, or face value.As a bond's par value and interest payments are set, bond valuation helps investors figure out what rate of return would make a bond investment worth the cost.






   Understanding Bond Valuation  

A bond is a debt instrument that provides a steady income stream to the investor in the form of coupon payments. At the maturity date, the full face value of the bond is repaid to the bondholder. The characteristics of a regular bond include:



Coupon rate: Some bonds have an interest rate, also known as the coupon rate, which is paid to bondholders semi-annually. The coupon rate is the fixed return that an investor earns periodically until it matures.
Maturity date: All bonds have maturity dates, some short-term, others long-term. When a bond matures, the bond issuer repays the investor the full face value of the bond. For corporate bonds, the face value of a bond is usually $1,000 and for government bonds, the face value is $10,000. The face value is not necessarily the invested principal or purchase price of the bond.
Current price: Depending on the level of interest rate in the environment, the investor may purchase a bond at par, below par, or above par. For example, if interest rates increase, the value of a bond will decrease since the coupon rate will be lower than the interest rate in the economy. When this occurs, the bond will trade at a discount, that is, below par. However, the bondholder will be paid the full face value of the bond at maturity even though he purchased it for less than the par value.


   Bond Valuation in Practice  

Since bonds are an essential part of the capital markets, investors and analysts seek to understand how the different features of a bond interact in order to determine its intrinsic value. Like a stock, the value of a bond determines whether it is a suitable investment for a portfolio and hence, is an integral step in bond investing.



Bond valuation, in effect, is calculating the present value of a bond’s expected future coupon payments. The theoretical fair value of a bond is calculated by discounting the future value of its coupon payments by an appropriate discount rate. The discount rate used is the yield to maturity, which is the rate of return that an investor will get if they reinvested every coupon payment from the bond at a fixed interest rate until the bond matures. It takes into account the price of a bond, par value, coupon rate, and time to maturity.





$3.9 trillion

The size of the U.S. municipal bond market, or the total amount of debt outstanding, at the end of 2018, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA), an industry group.


   Coupon Bond Valuation  

Calculating the value of a coupon bond factors in the annual or semi-annual coupon payment and the par value of the bond.
The present value of expected cash flows is added to the present value of the face value of the bond as seen in the following formula:
















V


coupons



=


∑



C



(


1


+


r



)


t




















V


face value



=



F



(


1


+


r



)


T



















where:
















C


=


future cash flows, that is, coupon payments
















r


=


discount rate, that is, yield to maturity
















F


=


face value of the bond
















t


=


number of periods
















T


=


time to maturity







\begin{aligned} &V_{\text{coupons}}=\sum\frac{C}{(1+r)^t}\\ &V_{\text{face value}}=\frac{F}{(1+r)^T}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &C=\text{future cash flows, that is, coupon payments}\\ &r=\text{discount rate, that is, yield to maturity}\\ &F=\text{face value of the bond}\\ &t=\text{number of periods}\\ &T=\text{time to maturity} \end{aligned}


​Vcoupons​=∑(1+r)tC​Vface value​=(1+r)TF​where:C=future cash flows, that is, coupon paymentsr=discount rate, that is, yield to maturityF=face value of the bondt=number of periodsT=time to maturity​
For example, let’s find the value of a corporate bond with an annual interest rate of 5%, making semi-annual interest payments for 2 years, after which the bond matures and the principal must be repaid. Assume a YTM of 3%:

F = $1,000 for corporate bond
Coupon rateannual = 5%, therefore, Coupon ratesemi-annual = 5% / 2 = 2.5%
C = 2.5% x $1000 = $25 per period
t = 2 years x 2 = 4 periods for semi-annual coupon payments
T = 4 periods
r = YTM of 3% / 2 for semi-annual compounding = 1.5%


Present value of semi-annual payments = 25 / (1.015)1 + 25 / (1.015)2 + 25 / (1.015)3 + 25 / (1.015)4 = 96.36
Present value of face value = 1000 / (1.015)4 = 942.18

Therefore, the value of the bond is $1,038.54.


   Zero-Coupon Bond Valuation  

A zero-coupon bond makes no annual or semi-annual coupon payments for the duration of the bond. Instead, it is sold at a deep discount to par when issued. The difference between the purchase price and par value is the investor’s interest earned on the bond. To calculate the value of a zero-coupon bond, we only need to find the present value of the face value. Carrying over from the example above, the value of a zero-coupon bond with a face value of $1,000, YTM of 3% and 2 years to maturity would be $1,000 / (1.03)2, or $942.59.




Are Bonds Valued the Same As Stocks?
Not exactly. Both stocks and bonds are generally valued using discounted cash flow analysis—which takes the net present value of future cash flows that are owed by a security. Unlike stocks, bonds are composed of an interest (coupon) component and a principal component that is returned when the bond matures. Bond valuation takes the present value of each component and adds them together.




Why Is the Price of My Bond Different From Its Face Value?
A bond's face or par value will often differ from its market value. This has to do with several factors including changes to interest rates, a company's credit rating, time to maturity, whether there are any call provisions or other embedded options, and if the bond is secured or unsecured. A bond will always mature at its face value when the principal originally loaned is returned.




Why Are Bond Prices Inversely Related to Interest Rates?
A bond that pays a fixed coupon will see its price vary inversely with interest rates. This is because receiving a fixed interest rate, of say 5% is not very attractive if prevailing interest rates are 6%, and become even less desirable if rates can earn 7%. In order for that bond paying 5% to become equivalent to a new bond paying 7%, it must trade at a discounted price. Likewise, if interest rates drop to 4% or 3%, that 5% coupon becomes quite attractive and so that bond will trade at a premium to newly-issued bonds that offer a lower coupon.




What Is Duration and How Does That Affect Bond Valuation?
Bond valuation looks at discounted cash flows at their net present value if held to maturity. Duration instead measures a bond's price sensitivity to a 1% change in interest rates. Longer-term bonds have a higher duration, all else equal. Longer-term bonds will also have a larger number of future cash flows to discount, and so a change to the discount rate will have a greater impact on the NPV of longer-maturity bonds as well.




How Are Convertible Bonds Valued?
A convertible bond is a debt instrument that has an embedded option that allows investors to convert the bonds into shares of the company's common stock. Convertible bond valuations take a multitude of factors into account, including the variance in underlying stock price, the conversion ratio, and interest rates that could affect the stocks that such bonds might eventually become. At its most basic, the convertible is priced as the sum of the straight bond and the value of the embedded option to convert.
What Is a Bond Yield?  

A bond yield is the return an investor realizes on a bond. Put simply, a bond yield is the return on the capital invested by an investor. Bond yields are different from bond prices—both of which share an inverse relationship. The yield matches the bond's coupon rate when the bond is issued. Bond yields can be derived in different ways, including the coupon yield and current yield. Additional calculations of a bond's yield include yield to maturity (YTM) among others.





Key Takeaways

Bond yield is the return an investor realizes on an investment in a bond.  A bond can be purchased for more than its face value, at a premium, or less than its face value, at a discount.The current yield is the bond's coupon rate divided by its market price.Price and yield are inversely related and as the price of a bond goes up, its yield goes down.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Formula and Calculation of a Bond Yield  

The simplest way to calculate a bond yield is to divide its coupon payment by the face value of the bond. This is called the coupon rate.





Coupon Rate


=



Annual Coupon Payment


Bond Face Value




\text{Coupon Rate}=\frac{\text{Annual Coupon Payment}}{\text{Bond Face Value}}


Coupon Rate=Bond Face ValueAnnual Coupon Payment​
If a bond has a face value of $1,000 and made interest or coupon payments of $100 per year, then its coupon rate is 10% or $100 ÷ $1,000.


   Understanding Bond Yields  

Bonds are essentially a loan to bond issuers. They are considered safe investments. That's because bond values don't change the same way stock prices do. They offer investors a reliable stream of income and provide bondholders with a fixed form of income.



Investors earn interest on a bond throughout the life of the asset and receive the face value of the bond upon maturity. Investors can purchase bonds for more than their face value at a premium or less than the face value at a discount. Whichever they buy will change the yield they earn on the bond.



Bonds are rated by services approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and ratings range from "AAA" as investment grade with the lowest risk to "D," which are bonds in default, or junk bonds, with the highest risk.



The return realized by a bond investor is called the yield. There are a couple of different yield-related concepts. These include the:



Coupon Yield: This is the annual interest rate established when the bond is issued. This figure remains the same for the lifetime of the bond.
Current Yield: This figure depends on the bond's price and its coupon (or its interest payment). So if the price of the bond changes, the bond's yield also changes.






   Bond Yield vs. Bond Price  

Price and yield are inversely related. This means that as the price of a bond goes up, its yield goes down. Conversely, as the yield goes up, the price of the bond goes down.
If an investor purchases a bond with a face value of $1000 that matures in five years with a 10% annual coupon rate, the bond pays 10%, or $100, in interest annually. If interest rates rise above 10%, the bond's price will fall if the investor decides to sell it.
If the interest rate for similar investments rises to 12%, the original bond will still earn a coupon payment of $100, which would be unattractive to investors who can buy bonds that pay $120 as interest rates have risen. To sell the original $1000 bond, the price can be lowered so that the coupon payments and maturity value equal a yield of 12%.
If interest rates fall, the bond's price would rise because its coupon payment is more attractive. The further rates fall, the higher the bond's price will rise. In either scenario, the coupon rate no longer has any meaning for a new investor. But if the annual coupon payment is divided by the bond's price, the investor can calculate the current yield and get an estimate of the bond's true yield.





Current Yield


=



Annual Coupon Payment


Bond Price




\text{Current Yield}=\frac{\text{Annual Coupon Payment}}{\text{Bond Price}}


Current Yield=Bond PriceAnnual Coupon Payment​
The current yield and the coupon rate are incomplete calculations for a bond's yield because they do not account for the time value of money, maturity value, or payment frequency, and more complex calculations are required.


   Additional Bond Yield Calculations  

As noted above, there are additional calculations of a bond's yield. These include the YTM, bond equivalent yield (BEY), and effective annual yield (EAY).


  Yield to Maturity (YTM)  

A bond's yield to maturity is equal to the interest rate which makes the present value of all a bond's future cash flows equal to its current price. These cash flows include all the coupon payments and maturity value. Solving for YTM is a trial and error process that can be done on a financial calculator, but the formula is as follows:















Price


=



∑



t


−


1



T





Cash Flows


t




(


1


+


YTM



)


t



















where:
















YTM


=


 Yield to maturity







\begin{aligned} &\text{Price}=\sum^T_{t-1}\frac{\text{Cash Flows}_t}{(1+\text{YTM})^t}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{YTM}=\text{ Yield to maturity} \end{aligned}


​Price=t−1∑T​(1+YTM)tCash Flowst​​where:YTM= Yield to maturity​
In the previous example, a bond with a $1,000 face value, five years to maturity, and $100 annual coupon payments is worth $927.90 to match a new YTM of 12%. The five coupon payments plus the $1,000 maturity value are the bond's six cash flows.
Finding the present value of each of those six cash flows with an interest rate of 12% will determine what the bond's current price should be.


  Bond Equivalent Yield (BEY)  

Bond yields are quoted as a bond equivalent yield, which adjusts for the bond coupon paid in two semi-annual payments. In the previous example, the bonds' cash flows were annual, so the YTM is equal to the BEY.



However, if the coupon payments were made every six months, the semi-annual YTM would be 5.979%. The BEY is a simple annualized version of the semi-annual YTM and is calculated by multiplying the YTM by two.



In this example, the BEY of a bond that pays semi-annual coupon payments of $50 would be 11.958% (5.979% X 2 = 11.958%). The BEY does not account for the time value of money for the adjustment from a semi-annual YTM to an annual rate.


  Effective Annual Yield (EAY)  

Investors can define a more precise annual yield given the BEY for a bond when considering the time value of money in the calculation. In the case of a semi-annual coupon payment, the effective annual yield would be calculated as follows:















EAY


=




(


1


+



YTM


2



)



2



−


1
















where:
















EAY


=


Effective annual yield







\begin{aligned} &\text{EAY} = \left ( 1 + \frac { \text{YTM} }{ 2 } \right ) ^ 2 - 1 \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EAY} = \text{Effective annual yield} \\ \end{aligned}


​EAY=(1+2YTM​)2−1where:EAY=Effective annual yield​
If an investor knows that the semi-annual YTM was 5.979%, they could use the previous formula to find the EAY of 12.32%. Because the extra compounding period is included, the EAY will be higher than the BEY.






A bond rating is a grade given to a bond and indicates its credit quality. The rating takes into consideration a bond issuer's financial strength or its ability to pay a bond's principal and interest in a timely fashion. There are three bond rating agencies in the United States that account for approximately 95% of all bond ratings and include Fitch Ratings, Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings, and Moody’s Investors Service.


   Bond Yield Calculation Issues  

Some factors skew the calculations in determining a bond's yield. In the previous examples, it was assumed that the bond had exactly five years left to maturity when it was sold, which is rare. The fractional periods can be defined but the accrued interest is more difficult to calculate.



Assume a bond has four years and eight months to maturity. The exponent in the yield calculations can be turned into a decimal to adjust for the partial year.



However, this means that four months in the current coupon period have elapsed with two remaining, which requires an adjustment for accrued interest. A new bond buyer will be paid the full coupon, so the bond's price will be inflated slightly to compensate the seller for the four months in the current coupon period that have elapsed.



Bonds can be quoted with a clean price that excludes the accrued interest or a dirty price that includes the amount owed to reconcile the accrued interest. When bonds are quoted in a system like a Bloomberg or Reuters terminal, the clean price is used.




What Does a Bond's Yield Tell Investors?
A bond's yield is the return to an investor from the bond's interest, or coupon, payments. It can be calculated as a simple coupon yield or using a more complex method like yield to maturity. Higher yields mean that bond investors are owed larger interest payments, but may also be a sign of greater risk. The riskier a borrower is, the more yield investors demand. Higher yields are often common with a longer maturity bond.




Are High-Yield Bonds Better Investments Than Low-Yield Bonds?
Bond investment depends on an investor's circumstances, goals, and risk tolerance. Low-yield bonds may be better for investors who want a virtually risk-free asset, or one who is hedging a mixed portfolio by keeping a portion of it in a low-risk asset. High-yield bonds may be better suited for investors who are willing to accept a degree of risk in return for a higher return.




How Do Investors Utilize Bond Yields?
Yields are used for more sophisticated analyses. Bonds of different maturities can be traded to take advantage of the yield curve, which plots the interest rates of bonds having equal credit quality but differing maturity dates.The slope of the yield curve gives an idea of future interest rate changes and economic activity. They may also look at the difference in interest rates between different categories of bonds, holding some characteristics constant.A yield spread is a difference between yields on differing debt instruments of varying maturities, credit ratings, issuer, or risk level, calculated by deducting the yield of one instrument from the other such as the spread between AAA corporate bonds and U.S. Treasuries. This difference is most often expressed in basis points (bps) or percentage points.


   The Bottom Line  

Bond yield is the amount of return an investor will realize on a bond. The coupon rate and current yield are basic yield concepts and calculations. A bond rating is a grade given to a bond and indicates its credit quality and often the level of risk to the investor in purchasing the bond.
What Is a Bondholder?  

A bondholder is an entity that invests in or owns bonds. Bondholders hold debt securities that are typically issued by corporations and governments. They essentially lend money to bond issuers by giving them capital. In return, bond investors receive their principal or initial investment back when the bonds mature. For most bonds, bondholders also receives periodic interest payments.





Key Takeaways

A bondholder is an investor who acquires bonds issued by an entity such as a corporation or government body.Bondholders essentially become creditors to the issuer, and so bondholders enjoy certain protections and priority over stock (equity) holders.The holders of bonds receive their initial principal back when the bonds mature in addition to periodic interest (coupon) payments for most bonds.Bondholders may additionally profit if the particular bonds that they own increase in value, which can then be sold on the secondary market.


   Understanding Bondholders  

As noted above, an entity that invests in bonds is known as a bondholder. These investors purchase bonds directly from the entity that issues these fixed-income assets. Bonds are usually issued by different levels of government, including federal and local, as well as corporations. For instance, prospective bondholders can purchase Treasury bonds directly from the U.S. Treasury during new issue auctions.



Bonds are sold whenever the issuing entity wants to raise money for an express purpose. For example, governments may issue bonds to fund social programs or infrastructure projects. Or corporations may decide to sell bonds to further their own growth.



Bondholders buy bonds from the issuer with upfront capital. In exchange for their money, bondholders are promised the return of their principal investment when the bond matures. Some bond issuers also promise to pay periodic interest or coupon payments that are paid either before or upon maturity.



Bonds are typically considered safer investments than stocks because bondholders have a higher claim on the issuing company's assets in the event of bankruptcy. In other words, if the company must sell or liquidate its assets, any proceeds will go to bondholders before common stockholders.






Bonds are only as safe as the underlying issuer. Bonds carry credit risk and default risk since they're tied to the issuer's financial viability. If a company struggles financially, investors are at risk of default on the bond. In other words, the bondholder might lose 100% of the principal invested should the underlying company file bankruptcy.


   Bondholder Specifics  

When investing in bonds, there are several vital areas that the bondholder must understand before investing. Unlike stocks, bonds do not offer ownership participation in a company through a return of profits or voting rights. Instead, they represent the issuer's loan obligations and the likelihood of repayment, and other factors influence their pricing.


  Interest Rate  

The coupon rate is the rate of interest that the company or government will pay the bondholder. The interest rate can be either fixed or floating. A floating rate might be tied to a benchmark such as the yield of the 10-year Treasury bond.



Some bonds don't pay interest to investors. Instead, they sell at a lower price than their face value or at a discount. A zero-coupon bond, for example, doesn't pay coupon interest but trades at a deep discount to the face value, rendering its profit at maturity when the bond returns its full-face value. For example, a $1,000 discounted bond might sell in the market for $950, and upon maturity, the investor receives the $1,000 face value for a $50 profit.


  Maturity Date  

The date of maturity is when the company must pay back the principal—initial investment—to bondholders. Most government securities pay back the principal at maturity. However, the corporations that issue bonds have a few options for how they can repay.



The most common form of repayment is called a redemption out of capital. Here, the issuing company makes a lump sum payment on the date of maturity. A second option is called a debenture redemption reserve. With this method, the issuing company returns specific amounts each year until the debenture is repaid on the date of maturity.



Some bonds are callable securities. A callable bond—also known as a redeemable bond—is one that the issuer may redeem at a date before the stated maturity. If called the issuer will return the investor's principal early, ending all future coupon payments.


  Credit Ratings  

The issuer's credit rating and ultimately the bond's credit rating impacts the interest rate that investors will receive. Credit-rating agencies measure the creditworthiness of corporate and government bonds to provide investors with an overview of the risks involved in investing in that particular bond as opposed to investing in similar products.



Credit rating agencies typically assign letter grades to indicate these ratings. Standard & Poor’s, for instance, has a credit rating scale ranging from excellent at AAA to C and D for securities that carry higher credit risk. A debt instrument with a rating below BB is considered to be a speculative-grade or a junk bond, which means the bond's issuer is more likely to default on loans.






In August 2023, Fitch downgraded the long-term ratings for the United States. The rating dropped from AAA to AA+. Fitch stated the move was due to the increasing national debt and the potential for "fiscal deterioration" over the next three years.


   Bondholders Earn Income  
  Earned Income  

Bondholders earn income in two primary ways. First, most bonds return regular interest—coupon rate—payments that are usually paid semi-annually. However, depending on the structure of the bond it may pay yearly, quarterly, or even monthly coupons. For example, if a bond pays a 4% interest rate, called a coupon rate, and has a $1,000 face value, the investor will be paid $40 per year or $20 semiannually until maturity. The bondholder receives their full principal back at bond maturity ($1,000 x 0.04 = $40 ÷ 2 = $20).



The second way a bondholder can earn income from the holding is by selling the bond on the secondary market. If a bondholder sells the bond before maturity, there's the potential for a gain on the sale. Like other securities, bonds can increase in value, but several factors come into play with bond appreciation.



For example, let's say an investor paid $1,000 for a bond with a $1,000 face value. If the bondholder sells the bond before maturity in the secondary market and the bond may fetch $1,050, thereby earning $50 on the sale. Of course, the bondholder could lose if the bond decreases in value from the original purchase price.


  Taxation  

Besides the upsides of regular passive income and the return of investment at maturity, one big advantage of being a bondholder is the income from certain bonds may be exempt from income taxes. Municipal bonds, those issued by local or state governments, often pay interest that is not subject to taxation. However, to purchase a triple-tax-free bond that is exempt from state, local, and federal taxes, you typically must live in the municipality in which the bond is issued.


   Rewards and Risks for Bondholders  
  Rewards  

The rewards available to bondholders include a relatively safe investment product. They receive regular interest payments and a return of their invested principal on maturity. Also, in some cases, the interest is not subject to taxes.



Being a bondholder is generally perceived as a low-risk endeavor when compared to other types of investments, such as stocks. That's because bonds, which are fixed-income investments, guarantee consistent interest payments and the return of principal at maturity.



In the case of corporate bankruptcies, bondholders are commonly among the first to be reimbursed. Common stockholders, on the other hand, are on the lower rungs of the repayment ladder.



Although there are certain tax implications associated with certain bonds, there are some bond categories that provide holders with tax-free interest payments. This means the investor doesn't have to declare the interest as income and can net the entire amount as profit.


  Risks  

The interest rate paid on a bond might not keep up with inflation. Inflationary risk is a measure of price increases throughout an economy. If prices rise by 3% and the bond pays a 2% coupon, the bondholder has a net loss in real terms. In other words, bondholders are susceptible to inflation risk.



Bondholders also must deal with interest rate risk. Interest rate risk occurs when interest rates are rising. Most bonds have fixed-rate coupons, and as market rates rise, they may end up paying lower rates. As a result, a bondholder might earn a lower yield compared to the market in the rising-rate environment.



For example, corporate bonds generally yield higher returns than holding government bonds, but they come with higher risks. This yield difference is because it is less likely a government or municipality will file for bankruptcy and leave its bondholders unpaid. Of course, bonds issued by foreign countries with shakier economies or governments during upheaval can still carry a far greater risk of default than those issued by financially stable governments and corporations.



Bond investors must consider the risk-versus-reward of being a bondholder. Risk causes bond prices on the secondary market to fluctuate and deviate from the bond's face value. Potential bondholders may not be willing to pay $1,000 for a bond with a $1,000 face value if it's issued by a new company with little earnings history, or by a foreign government with an uncertain future.



As a result, the $1,000 bond may only sell for $800 or at a discount. However, the investor who purchases the bond is taking the risk that the issuer will not fold or default before the investment's maturity. In return, the bondholder has the potential of a 20% gain at maturity.





Rewards

Bondholders can earn a fixed income with regular interest—or coupon—payments
Safe, risk-free investment with U.S. Treasury options
Bondholders receive payment in a corporate bankruptcy before common stock shareholders
Some municipal bonds provide tax-free interest payments



Risks

Interest rate risk when market rates are rising
Credit and default risk can happen to corporate bonds tied to the issuer's financial viability
Inflationary risk if inflation outpaces the bond's coupon rate
A bond's face value on the secondary market may decrease when market interest rates outpace the coupon rate





   Examples of Bondholders  

Potential bondholders can invest in government bonds or corporate bonds. Below is an example of each with the benefits and risks.


  Government Bonds  

A U.S. Treasury bond (T-bond) is issued by the U.S. government to raise money to finance projects or day-to-day operations. The U.S. Treasury Department issues bonds via auctions at various times throughout the year while existing bonds trade in the secondary market.



Considered risk-free with the full faith and credit of the U.S. government backing them, T-bonds are a favorite investment for conservative investors. However, the risk-free feature has a drawback as T-bonds usually pay a lower interest rate than corporate bonds.



Treasury bonds are long-term bonds—maturities between 10 to 30 years—providing semiannual interest payments and face values of $1,000. For instance, the 30-year Treasury bond yield closed at 2.817% on March 31, 2019, so the bondholder receives 2.817% yearly. At maturity, in 30 years, they receive the fully invested principal back. T-bonds can sell on the secondary market before maturity.


  Corporate Bonds  

Microsoft (MSFT) has a series of corporate bonds or notes that it issues to raise capital. Many of them are long-term fixed-income assets that mature within 30 years. Issued on Dec. 6, 2013, its maturity date is Dec. 15, 2013, and trades on the secondary market. On Aug. 17, 2023, the bond's yield was 5.0142%, which means the bondholder gets 5.0142% on an annual basis.




What Rights Do Bondholders Have?
There are two inherent rights associated with being a bondholder. The first is to be repaid the full principal amount once the bond matures. The second is for the bond issuer to pay the bondholder interest at the agreed-upon interval, whether that's annually, quarterly, or another period.




What's the Difference Between a Government and Corporate Bond?
Government bonds are issued by different forms of government, including federal and local governments. Corporate bonds, on the other hand, are issued by companies—usually those that are more established.Government bonds tend to be considered safer because they are backed by the full faith of the issuing entity, such as those offered by the U.S. government. Corporate bonds, on the other hand, are often deemed a little riskier. Although bondholders are ahead of common stockholders when it comes to being paid, bonds can lose their value if the issuing company goes bankrupt. This means there's no guarantee how much bondholders will receive.




Can I Lose Money on a Bond?
Yes, there are instances when you can lose money on a bond. Bonds are generally considered safe investments but they are susceptible to certain risks. For instance, inflation can eat away at the returns of a bondholder. If inflation is running higher than what the bond pays, then you'll lose out. You can also lose money on a bond because of any taxes you may owe on the interest you earn.


   The Bottom Line  

Bonds are fixed-income investments that are generally considered safe. Investors who hold bonds are called bondholders. Make sure you know the ins and outs of being a bondholder—notably, things like the interest rate, maturity date, and credit ratings of bond issuers. If you're reviewing an investment in government or corporate bonds, there are certain factors you should consider. Although they are usually safer than stocks, bonds do come with certain risks, including inflation and interest rate risk.
What Is a Bonus?  

A bonus is a financial compensation that is above and beyond the normal payment expectations of its recipient. Companies may award bonuses to both entry-level employees and to senior-level executives. While bonuses are traditionally given to exceptional workers, employers sometimes dole out bonuses company-wide to stave off jealousy among staffers.



Bonuses may be dangled as incentives to prospective employees and they can be given to current employees to reward performance and increase employee retention. Companies can distribute bonuses to its existing shareholders through a bonus issue, which is an offer of free additional shares of the company's stock.





Key Takeaways

A bonus is a financial compensation that is above and beyond the normal payment expectations of its recipient.Bonuses may be awarded by a company as an incentive or to reward good performance.Typical incentive bonuses a company can give employees include signing, referral, and retention bonuses.Companies have various ways they can award employee bonuses, including cash, stock, and stock options.


   Understanding Bonuses  

In workplace settings, a bonus is a type of additional compensation an employer gives to an employee that complements their base pay or salary. A company may use bonuses to reward achievements, to show gratitude to employees who meet longevity milestones, or to entice not-yet employees to join a company's ranks.



Bonuses can take various forms, including cash, stock, or stock options. They can be given to individuals, teams, or the entire company. Companies may also offer incentive bonuses, such as signing bonuses for new hires, referral bonuses for employees who refer successful candidates, and retention bonuses to encourage employee loyalty. Performance bonuses are given for exceptional work and can be given as annual bonuses, spot bonuses, or milestone bonuses.



In the United States, bonuses are considered taxable income by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). This means that employees are required to report their bonuses as part of their taxable income when they file their taxes. The employer is also required to report the bonus to the IRS and to withhold taxes from the employee's bonus payment at the time it is paid. The amount of tax withheld from a bonus payment is based on the employee's tax bracket and the tax laws in effect at the time the bonus is paid.



It's important for employees to be aware of the tax implications of bonuses, as failing to report them can result in penalties and interest charges from the IRS. Employees should keep good records of their bonus payments and consult with a tax professional if they have any questions about how to report their bonuses on their tax return.






The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers bonuses as taxable income, which means employees will need to report any bonuses they receive when filing their taxes.


   Incentive Bonuses  

Incentive bonuses include signing bonuses, referral bonuses, and retention bonuses. A signing bonus is a monetary offer that companies extend to top-talent candidates to entice them to accept a position—especially if they are being aggressively pursued by rival firms. In theory, paying an initial bonus payment will result in greater company profits down the line. Signing bonuses are routinely offered by professional sports teams attempting to lure top-tier athletes away from competitive clubs.



Referral bonuses are presented to employees who recommend candidates for open positions, which ultimately leads to the hiring of said candidates. Referral bonuses incentivize employees to refer prospects with strong work ethics, sharp skills, and positive attitudes.



Companies offer retention bonuses to key employees, in an effort to encourage loyalty, especially in downward economies or periods of organizational changes. This financial incentive is an expression of gratitude that lets employees know their jobs are secure over the long haul.


   Holiday Bonuses  

Some companies hand out bonuses specifically during the December holidays season. Holiday bonuses can take various forms, such as cash, gift cards, or other types of gifts. They can be given to individual employees or to the entire company. Some companies give holiday bonuses to all of their employees, while others only give them to certain employees, such as those who have been with the company for a certain length of time or who have achieved certain performance goals.



Some countries have codified holidays bonuses as part of the labor law. Aguinaldo, for example, is an annual Christmas bonus that businesses in Mexico are required by law to pay to their employees. The payment, sometimes called the "thirteenth salary", must be made by Dec. 20 of each year. It is usually equivalent to 15 days of the employee's salary. It is typically given to all employees, regardless of their job title or length of service. Companies that fail to make an aguinaldo payment may be fined as much as 5,000 times the legal daily minimum wage. Some other Latin American nations, such as Costa Rica and El Salvador, also require employers to pay their employees an aguinaldo.


   Performance Bonuses  

Performance bonuses reward employees for exceptional work. They are customarily offered after the completion of projects or at the end of fiscal quarters or years. Performance bonuses may be doled out to individuals, teams, departments, or to the company-wide staff. A reward bonus may be either a one-time offer or a periodic payment. While reward bonuses are usually given in cash, they sometimes take the form of stock compensation, gift cards, time off, holiday turkeys, or simple verbal expressions of appreciation.



Examples of reward bonuses include annual bonuses, spot bonus awards, and milestone bonuses. Spot bonuses, which reward employees who deserve special recognition, are micro-bonus payments, typically valued at around $50. Workers who reach longevity milestones—for example, 10 years of employment with a given firm—may be recognized with additional compensation.



Some businesses build bonus structures into employee contracts, where any profits earned during a fiscal year will be shared amongst the employees. In most cases, C-suite executives are awarded larger bonuses than lower-level employees.


   Bonus Inflation  

While bonuses are traditionally issued to high-performing, profit-generating employees, some companies opt to issue bonuses to lower-performing employees as well, even though businesses that do this tend to grow more slowly and generate less money. Some businesses resort to distributing across-the-board bonuses in an effort to quell jealousies and employee backlash. After all, it's easier for management to pay bonuses to everyone than to explain to inadequate performers why they were denied.



Furthermore, it can be difficult for an employer to accurately assess their employees' performance success. For example, employees who fail to make their activity quotas may be very hard workers. However, their performance may be hampered by any number of conditions out of their control, such as unavoidable production delays or an economic downturn.


   Special Considerations  
  Bonuses in Lieu of Pay  

Companies are increasingly replacing raises with bonuses—a trend that vexes many employees. While employers can keep wage increases low by pledging to fill pay gaps with bonuses, they are under no obligation to follow through. Because employers pay bonuses on a discretionary basis, they may keep their fixed costs low by withholding bonuses during slow years or recessionary periods. This approach is much more viable than increasing salaries annually, only to cut wages during a recession.


  Dividends and Bonus Shares  

In addition to employees, shareholders may receive bonuses in the shape of dividends, which are carved from the profits realized by the company. In lieu of cash dividends, a company can issue bonus shares to investors. If the company is short on cash, the bonus shares of company stock provide a way for it to reward shareholders who expect a regular income from owning the company's stock. The shareholders may then sell the bonus shares to meet their cash needs or they can opt to hold onto the shares.




How Much Is a Bonus Usually?
There is no set amount for bonuses in the United States, as they can vary widely depending on the industry, the size of the company, and the employee's job title and performance. Bonuses can range from a few hundred dollars to several thousand dollars or more, depending on the circumstances.In some cases, bonuses are a fixed amount that is determined in advance, such as a signing bonus for a new hire or a retention bonus to encourage an employee to stay with a company. In other cases, bonuses are based on performance and would depend on an employee's individual contributions or the success of the company.




Do Bonuses Count As Salary?
Bonuses are compensation paid above and beyond one's base salary. They are thus not considered part of an employee's salary or wages, but are treated as additional income. In the United States, bonuses are considered taxable income by the Internal Revenue Service.




Why Do Companies Give Bonuses?
Companies give bonuses to employees for a variety of reasons, such as to:Encourage certain behavior: Bonuses can be used as an incentive to encourage employees to perform at their best or to achieve certain goals.Reward good performance: Bonuses can be given to recognize and reward employees for exceptional performance or for meeting certain performance targets.Show appreciation/Boost morale: Bonuses can be given as a way for companies to show appreciation to their employees and boost morale.Retain key employees: Companies may offer retention bonuses to key employees to encourage them to stay with the company, especially during times of economic uncertainty or organizational change.Attract top talent: Companies may offer signing bonuses to top-talent candidates as an incentive to accept a job offer, especially if they are being aggressively pursued by rival firms.Share company success: In addition to rewarding employees, companies may distribute bonuses to shareholders through a special dividend or a bonus issue, which is an offer of free additional shares of the company's stock.


   The Bottom Line  

A bonus is a financial reward that is given to an employee beyond their normal salary or wages. It can be given as an incentive to encourage certain behavior or to reward good performance. Bonuses can take various forms, including cash, stock, or stock options, and can be given to individuals, teams, or the entire company. Incentive bonuses include signing bonuses for new hires, referral bonuses for employees who refer successful candidates, and retention bonuses to encourage employee loyalty. Performance bonuses are given for exceptional work and can be given as annual bonuses, spot bonuses, or milestone bonuses. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers bonuses as taxable income, so employees need to report them when filing their taxes.
What Is Bonus Depreciation?  

Bonus depreciation is a tax incentive that allows a business to immediately deduct a large percentage of the purchase price of eligible assets, such as machinery, rather than write them off over the "useful life" of that asset. Bonus depreciation is also known as the additional first-year depreciation deduction.





Key Takeaways


Bonus depreciation allows businesses to deduct a large percentage of the cost of eligible purchases the year they acquire them, rather than depreciating them over a period of years.
It was created as a way to encourage investment by small businesses and stimulate the economy.
Businesses should use IRS Form 4562 to record bonus depreciation as well as other types of depreciation and amortization.
The rules and limits for bonus depreciation have changed over the years, and the latest ones are scheduled to expire in 2023.
In 2022, bonus depreciation allows for 100% upfront deductibility of depreciation; this depreciates 20% in each subsequent year until its final year in 2026.



   Understanding Bonus Depreciation  

When a business buys or develops an asset, the tax treatment for that asset is traditionally to spread the cost of the asset over its useful life. This process is known as depreciation, and depreciation expense reduces a company's net earnings. With net earnings smaller, companies often incur smaller tax liabilities.



Bonus depreciation is an accelerated business tax deduction that lower's a company's taxable net income and thus reduces its tax liability. Instead of allocating the cost over the life of an asset, Congress enacted rules that allow businesses to deduct a fixed percentage of an eligible asset's cost upfront.



Although a company may ultimately expense the same total amount over the asset's life, bonus depreciation is more likely to assist a company in reducing its tax liability, especially when considering potential impacts to tax brackets. For example, deducting $10,000 over 10 years may not materially impact each year's taxable income, but deducting $100,000 in a single year may reduce a company's highest marginal tax rate.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, passed in 2017, made major changes to the rules on bonus depreciation. Most significantly, it doubled the bonus depreciation deduction for qualified property, as defined by the IRS, from 50% to 100%. The 2017 law also extended the bonus to cover used property under certain conditions.


   History of Bonus Depreciation  

Bonus depreciation recently celebrated its 20th year in existence. Over time, the criteria for eligible property as well as the bonus depreciation rate has changed, and the legislation for the tax benefit has been extended several times. Below is a very high-level summary of the legislation associated with bonus depreciation.









Bonus Depreciation, A Brief History




 Legislation
Notes


 Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act (2002)
- Introduced bonus depreciation- Let companies deduct 30% of the cost of eligible assets before the standard depreciation method was applied


 Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act (2003)
- Increased the bonus depreciation rate to 50%


 Economic Stimulus Act (2008)
- Maintained the bonus depreciation rate to 50%, extended the program


 Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (2015)
- Extended the program through 2019- Included a phase-out of the bonus depreciation rate after 2017


Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017)
- Raised the bonus depreciate rate to 100%- Extended the program through 2026





   Qualifying Assets for Bonus Depreciation  

Bonus depreciation is only applicable to certain business assets that meet qualification requirements. Property must have a maximum useful life of 20 years, and it can be used for either business or personal use.



Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the taxpayer revisions to the eligibility also stipulate that:



The asset was not used by the taxpayer prior to acquisition.
The asset was not acquired by a related party to the taxpayer.
The asset was not formerly owned by a component member of a controlled group of corporations.
The asset's basis is not figured in reference to the adjusted basis of the property when under ownership of the seller.
The asset's basis is not figured in reference to a basis acquired from a decedent.



Recent revisions also explicitly call out assets previously not eligible for bonus depreciation but now allowable. For example, the IRS explicitly calls out qualified film, television, or theater property acquired and placed in service after Sept. 27, 2017.


  Disqualified Assets  

The IRS explicitly disqualifies certain types of assets from being able to claim bonus depreciation. Under new bonus depreciation rules, assets are not eligible if they are:



Primarily used in the trade of furnishing or sale of electrical energy, water, or sewage disposal services.
Primarily used in the trade of furnishing or the sale of gas or steam through distributed systems.
Primarily used in the trade of furnishing or the sale of gas or steam by pipeline.
Used in a trade or business that has had floor-plan financing indebtedness under certain circumstances.
Qualified improvement property such as leasehold improvements acquired after Dec. 31, 2017.






There are specific tax consultants specialized in bonus depreciation (or other depreciation-related tax deductions). For the most up-to-date and relevant information, consult one of these advisors.


   How to Report Bonus Depreciation  

Bonus depreciation is reported on a Federal tax return through Form 4562 (Depreciation and Amortization (Including Information on Listed Property). This form is also used to report or claim other types of depreciation such as the Section 179 deduction. Taxpayers must calculate their own amount of bonus depreciation to recognize and report their "special depreciation allowance" under Part II, Line 14.



To figure the depreciable base of the asset, the taxpayer should subtract any credits or deductions allocated to the property from the basis of the asset. Special treatment exists for assets acquired in a like-kind exchange or involuntary conversion.


  Election Out  

If taxpayers decide it would be more advantageous to recognize depreciation over the life of the asset instead of using an accelerated method, the taxpayer can elect not to deduct any special depreciation allowance. To make this election, the taxpayer must attach a statement to their tax return indicating which class of property they wish to not make the election for. Once the election has been made, the decision can not be revoked with the IRS's consent.





Recapture

If a taxpayer disposes of property in which they claimed a special depreciation deduction for, the taxpayer if often required to recognized as ordinary income a recaptured amount.


   Bonus Depreciation Schedule and Phase Out  

The new bonus depreciation rules apply to property acquired and placed in service after Sept. 27, 2017 and before Jan. 1, 2023. In January 2023, the current provision will expire. However, the current bonus depreciation phase out schedule extends to 2026.









Bonus Depreciation, Phase-Out Schedule




Year the Asset was Placed In Service
Bonus Depreciation Rate


 2022
100%


2023
80%


2024
60%


2025
40%


2026
20%


2027
0%





   Bonus Depreciation vs. Section 179  

Two common tax benefits regarding depreciation are bonus depreciation and Section 179 deductions. Section 179 allows taxpayers to recognize depreciation expense on qualifying property when its used more than 50% of the time for business. It allows business owners to deduct a set dollar amount of new business assets that have been put in place during the current tax year.



Broadly speaking, Section 179 rules are often more flexible with timing than bonus depreciation rules. Under Section 179, the taxpayer can elect to save certain assets for future tax breaks or claim only a portion of the cost and defer the other portion for a future tax year. With bonus depreciation, the amount of depreciation allowable is strictly defined.



However, bonus depreciation may apply to higher spending amounts. Bonus depreciation is not capped in regards to dollars; an entire multi-million deduction for the entire cost of a single may be recognized in a single year. On the other hand, Section 179 deductions were limited to $1,080,000 for 2022 (based on $2,700,000 capital equipment spend).



Each program has specific criteria that make it more or less appealing to certain taxpayers. Some real estate improvements do not qualify for bonus depreciation but do quality for Section 179 treatment. On the other hand, bonus depreciation can exceed business income, while Section 179 deductions are limited to annual business income. It is also possible to claim both bonus depreciation and Section 179 deductions in the same tax year.




What Are the Benefits of Bonus Depreciation?
Bonus depreciation allows a taxpayer to reduce their short-term taxable income by the cost of depreciable assets. Bonus depreciation allows a taxpayer to deduct 100% of depreciation upfront on their Federal tax return. This accelerated depreciation method means a company may pay substantially fewer taxes in the tax year in which they claim bonus depreciation.




Do Vehicles Qualify for Bonus Depreciation?
Yes, businesses can deduct and depreciate 100% of the cost of vehicle or truck under bonus depreciation rules. Note that this will be different than Section 179 rules; though a vehicle or truck is often a qualifying asset, it will be subject to a deduction up to a specific dollar amount.




Should I Take Bonus Depreciation?
Electing to take bonus depreciation is often favorable for taxpayers seeking to minimize short-term tax liabilities. Though future year liabilities may be higher due to having a lower amount of bonus depreciation to claim, this may also create a net business loss that may be rolled over and carried to future years. There may be situations that make more sense to elect out of the program; for more information, consult your advisor to see whether you qualify for bonus depreciation and whether it strategically makes sense to claim.




What Assets Qualify for Bonus Depreciation?
To be eligible for bonus depreciation, eligible property must be MACRS property with a useful life of 20 years or less, certain depreciable computer software, or qualifying leasehold improvement property. In addition, new criteria limits how the asset was acquired or how the basis is to be calculated.


   The Bottom Line  

Bonus depreciation is a tax incentive for taxpayers who incur capital expenditures or spend money on certain depreciable assets. These taxpayers can elect to deduct 100% of the asset's depreciation in the current tax year, although the allowable amount of depreciation is scheduled to decrease each of the next five years. Bonus depreciation allows a higher but less controllable depreciable tax strategy compared to Section 179 deductions.
What is a Bonus Issue?  

A bonus issue, also known as a scrip issue or a capitalization issue, is an offer of free additional shares to existing shareholders. For example, a company may give one bonus share for every five shares held. Companies issue bonus shares to attract further investment and reward shareholders.





Key Takeaways


A bonus issue of shares is the allocation of additional shares to stockholders.
Bonus shares increase a company’s share capital but not its market capitalization.
A bonus issue of shares is funded by a company’s earnings or share reserves.
Bonus issues don’t dilute shareholders’ equity because they are issued in a constant ratio that keeps the relative equity of each shareholder the same as before the issue.
Companies issue bonus shares to make their stock more attractive for retail investors, provide an alternative to a cash dividend, and/or reflect a position of financial health.
A downside of bonus issues is the opportunity cost of earnings utilized for other purposes.







   Understanding Bonus Issues  

Bonus issues increase a company’s outstanding shares but not its market capitalization. Companies usually fund a bonus issue through profits or existing share reserves. The issuance of bonus shares is not taxable; however, shareholders must still pay capital gains tax if they sell them for a net gain.



A company allocates bonus issues according to each shareholder’s stake. Bonus shares do not dilute shareholders’ equity because they are issued in a constant ratio that keeps the relative equity of each shareholder the same as before the issue. For example, a three-for-one bonus issue entitles each shareholder three shares for every one that they hold before the issue. A shareholder with 1,000 shares receives 3,000 bonus shares (1,000 × 3 ÷ 1 = 3,000).






A company’s share price proportionally adjusts to the number of bonus shares issued.


   Why Do Companies Issue Bonus Shares?  

Companies typically issue bonus shares for several key reasons. First, they encourage more retail investor participation in their stock by lowering the price per share and adding liquidity. Second, they provide an alternative to issuing a dividend payment for rewarding investors. And finally, they reflect that the company is in a financially sound position to keep growing and generating shareholder value. We will further discuss these reasons when looking at the advantages of issuing bonus shares.


   Advantages of Issuing Bonus Shares  

Encouraging retail participation: Increasing the number of outstanding shares adds liquidity and decreases a company’s stock price, making its shares more affordable and easier to trade for retail investors. Lower-priced shares allow investors to acquire more units, while increased liquidity reduces slippage costs.



Alternative to paying dividends: Companies generating irregular profits may issue bonus shares rather than cash dividends to build shareholder confidence. Bonus issues may be particularly appealing for smaller companies that want to attract more investors but don’t have earnings consistent enough to pay regular dividends.



Displaying financial health: A company that issues bonus shares demonstrates that it has sufficient share reserves and/or profits to reward prospective investors and current shareholders. Share issues also signal that a company is in a financially sound position to keep growing and adding shareholder value.



Favorable tax treatment: Bonus shares aren’t taxed when issued, making them more favorable than a cash dividend from a taxation perspective, with the latter subject to a corporate tax rate of 10% to 37%. However, investors are still required to pay capital gains tax on bonus shares if selling them for a net gain.


   Disadvantages of Issuing Bonus Shares  

Opportunity cost: A company could use earnings set aside for a bonus issue for other purposes that may add more shareholder value. For example, retained earnings could be used for a strategic acquisition into a new growth market or to fund updated equipment and machinery. Lost opportunities also have the potential to create bad press for a company, which may negatively impact investor sentiment.



Negative impact on dividends: Issuing bonus shares does not generate cash for the company, which could result in a decline in future dividend payments, potentially upsetting shareholders. Additionally, some investors who receive bonus shares may think that the company may prioritize that form of reward over a cash dividend in the future.



No immediate financial benefit: Unlike a cash dividend payment, shareholders don’t immediately benefit financially because the company’s stock price drops proportionally to the additional bonus shares issued. For example, assume an investor buys 100 shares of XZY Ltd. stock for $10 each, and the company has a 1-for-1 bonus issue. After the bonus issue, the investor now holds 200 shares (100 original shares + 100 bonus shares). As a result of the additional bonus shares added to the outstanding supply, they are now worth $5 each ($10 ÷ 2), not providing the investor with any immediate financial gain.


   Stock Splits vs. Bonus Shares  

Stock splits and bonus shares have many similarities and differences. When a company declares a stock split, the number of shares increases, but the investment value remains the same. Companies typically declare a stock split as a method of infusing additional liquidity into shares, increasing the number of shares trading and making shares more affordable to retail investors.



When a stock is split, there is no increase or decrease in the company’s cash reserves. In contrast, when a company issues bonus shares, the shares are paid for out of the cash reserves, and the reserves deplete.




What are the main reasons why a company would issue bonus shares?
Companies issue bonus shares to make their stock more attractive for retail investors, provide an alternative to a cash dividend, and/or reflect a position of financial health. In a nutshell, a company issues bonus shares to boost investment and reward shareholders.




What are some drawbacks of issuing bonus shares?
A company could potentially better utilize earnings set aside for a bonus issue to fund other activities that may generate a greater return on investment for shareholders. Additionally, bonus shares could reduce dividend payments, as they don’t generate cash for a company. 




Does a bonus issue affect a company’s share price?
Yes, the company’s share price proportionally adjusts to the number of bonus shares issued. For example, if a company’s stock price was at $10 and it had a 1-for-1 bonus issue, the stock price would readjust to $5 to reflect the additional bonus shares.




Do I still need to pay tax on my bonus shares?
No, and yes. Investors aren’t taxed on bonus shares when a company issues them; however, they must still pay capital gains tax if selling them for a net profit. Before filing a tax return, investors should inform their accountant if they have received bonus shares to ensure that they are managed correctly from a taxation standpoint.


   The Bottom Line  

Bonus issue of shares refers to a company allocating additional shares from earnings or existing reserves to stockholders. A bonus issue increases a company’s outstanding shares but not its market capitalization, as the stock price adjusts proportionally to the additional shares issued. Companies primarily have bonus issues to attract retail investors, provide an alternative to a dividend, and/or project a sound financial position.



On the flip side, earnings set aside for bonus issues could lead to lost opportunities that generate better shareholder value. Although investors aren’t directly taxed at the time that a company issues bonus shares, capital gains tax applies if they are sold for a net profit.
What is Book Building?  

Book building is the process by which an underwriter attempts to determine the price at which an initial public offering (IPO) will be offered. An underwriter, normally an investment bank, builds a book by inviting institutional investors (such as fund managers and others) to submit bids for the number of shares and the price(s) they would be willing to pay for them.





Key Takeaways

Book building is the process by which an underwriter attempts to determine the price at which an initial public offering (IPO) will be offered.The process of price discovery involves generating and recording investor demand for shares before arriving at an issue price.Book building is the de facto mechanism by which companies price their IPOs and is highly recommended by all the major stock exchanges as the most efficient way to price securities.


   Understanding Book Building  

Book building has surpassed the 'fixed pricing' method, where the price is set prior to investor participation, to become the de facto mechanism by which companies price their IPOs. The process of price discovery involves generating and recording investor demand for shares before arriving at an issue price that will satisfy both the company offering the IPO and the market. It is highly recommended by all the major stock exchanges as the most efficient way to price securities.



The book building process comprises these steps:



The issuing company hires an investment bank to act as an underwriter who is tasked with determining the price range the security can be sold for and drafting a prospectus to send out to the institutional investing community.
The investment bank invites investors, normally large scale buyers and fund managers, to submit bids on the number of shares that they are interested in buying and the prices that they would be willing to pay.
The book is 'built' by listing and evaluating the aggregated demand for the issue from the submitted bids. The underwriter analyzes the information and uses a weighted average to arrive at the final price for the security, which is termed the cutoff price.
The underwriter has to, for the sake of transparency, publicize the details of all the bids that were submitted.
Shares are allocated to the accepted bidders.



Even if the information collected during the book building process suggests a particular price point is best, that does not guarantee a large number of actual purchases once the IPO is open to buyers. Further, it is not a requirement that the IPO be offered at that price suggested during the analysis.


   Accelerated Book Building  

An accelerated book-build is often used when a company is in immediate need of financing, in which case, debt financing is out of the question. This can be the case when a firm is looking to make an offer to acquire another firm. Basically, when a company is unable to obtain additional financing for a short-term project or acquisition due to its high debt obligations, it can use an accelerated book-build to obtain quick financing from the equity market.



With an accelerated book build, the offer period is open for only one or two days and with little to no marketing. In other words, the time between pricing and issuance is 48 hours or less. A book build that is accelerated is frequently implemented overnight, with the issuing company contacting a number of investment banks that can serve as underwriters on the evening prior to the intended placement. The issuer solicits bids in an auction-type process and awards the underwriting contract to the bank that commits to the highest backstop price. The underwriter submits the proposal with the price range to institutional investors. In effect, placement with investors happens overnight with the security pricing occurring most often within 24 to 48 hours.


   IPO Pricing Risk  

With any IPO, there is a risk of the stock being overpriced or undervalued when the initial price is set. If it is overpriced, it may discourage investor interest if they are not certain that the company’s price corresponds with its actual value. This reaction within the marketplace can cause the price to fall further, lowering the value of shares that have already been secured.



In cases where a stock is undervalued, it is considered to be a missed opportunity on the part of the issuing company as it could have generated more funds than were acquired as part of the IPO.
What Is a Book Runner?  

A book runner, or bookrunner, is the primary underwriter or lead coordinator when an investment bank issues new equity, debt, or securities instruments.



The book runner is the lead underwriting firm that runs or is in charge of the books in investment banking. Book runners may also coordinate with others in order to mitigate their risk such as those that represent companies in large, leveraged buyouts (LBOs).





Key Takeaways

A book runner is the primary underwriter or lead coordinator in the issuance of new equity, debt, or securities instruments. In investment banking, the book runner is the lead underwriting firm that runs or is in charge of the books during the issuance of new equity of a client firm.The book runner serves as lead underwriter and usually works with other investment banks to establish an underwriter syndicate, thereby creating the initial sales force for shares.In leveraged buyouts, a book runner represents one of the participating companies and works with other participating firms.


   Understanding Book Runners  

Book runners are the lead underwriters involved in different parts of the financial industry including initial public offerings (IPOs) and LBOs. As such, they're also known in the industry as lead arrangers or lead managers. With IPOs, the book runner assesses a company's financials and current market conditions to arrive at the initial value and quantity of shares to be sold to private parties. While most often done during an IPO, book runners may also do this through a secondary offering.



To reduce its risk, the book runner syndicates with other underwriting firms for the issuance of the new equity, debt, or security. This is fairly common in the investment banking industry and is a temporary arrangement between entities. The book runner serves as lead underwriter, working with other investment banks to establish an underwriter syndicate, thereby creating the initial sales force for the shares. These shares are then sold to institutional and retail clients. These new shares carry a hefty commission—as much as 6% to 8%—for the underwriter syndicate, with the majority of shares held by the lead underwriter.






A book runner often syndicates with other underwriting firms to reduce their risk.



The lead-left book runner, also called managing underwriter or syndicate manager, is listed first among the other underwriters participating in the issuance. The lead-left book runner plays the most important role in the transaction and will typically assign parts of the new issue to other underwriting firms for placement while retaining the most significant portion for themselves. This book runner's name is also the first bank to be listed on the prospectus, in the upper left-hand corner.



Book runners also work with large, leveraged buyouts, which often involve multiple businesses. LBOs take place when a company makes an acquisition using borrowed capital. In these cases, the book runner represents one of the participating companies and coordinates with the other participating firms. One company generally takes the responsibility of running or managing the books, though more than one book runner—also called a joint book runner—can control a security issuance.


   Special Considerations  

In the securities industry, an underwriter represents a particular business entity, most often an investment bank. The underwriter guarantees that all documentation and reporting requirements are met. They also work with potential investors to market the upcoming offering and gauge public interest. An underwriting institution may offer guarantees regarding the amount of stock to be purchased. They may also buy securities to meet the minimum guarantee.



A book runner performs the same duties as an underwriter while also coordinating the efforts of multiple involved parties and information sources. In this regard, the book runner functions as a central point for all information regarding the potential offering or issue. This pivotal position may allow the book runner and his associated firm to know new information before it is widely known.


   Responsibilities of Book Runners  

Determining the final offering price is one of the biggest responsibilities of an underwriter. First, the price determines the size of the proceeds to the issuer. Second, it determines how easily the underwriter can sell the securities to buyers.



The issuer and lead book runner usually work together to determine the price. Once they agree on a price for the securities and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) makes the registration statement effective, the underwriters call the subscribers to confirm their orders. If demand is particularly high, the underwriters and the issuer may raise the price and reconfirm the sale with subscribers.



One responsibility of the book runner is to create a book containing a working list. This is useful in tracking information about parties interested in participating in the new offering or issue. This information is used to help determine an opening price for an initial public offering as well as to gain insight into the level of interest expressed by potential investors.



Being the lead underwriter for a stock offering, especially an IPO, can bring a large payday if the market shows a high demand for the shares. The stock issuer will often allow the lead underwriter to create an over-allotment of shares if demand is high which can bring in even more money to the underwriting firm. This is called a greenshoe option.



There are substantial risks involved in underwriting stock offerings. For instance, any company could plummet in the open market once public trading begins. This is why large investment banks look to conduct many diverse offerings in the course of a year. The more transactions and offerings take place, the more the risk is spread out between them instead of concentrated on the outcomes of a single company's offering.




What Is a Leveraged Buyout?
A leveraged buyout is when one company buys another using a large amount of borrowed money to fund the purchase. Often, the assets of the company being purchased are used as collateral for the loans taken out by the buyer.




What Is the Difference Between a Book Runner and a Lead Manager?
A book runner is responsible for the entire underwriting process during the an IPO or a leveraged buyout. A lead manager is responsible for finding buyers for an IPO and ensure there are no barriers to the sale. These roles are often filled by the same firm.




Do Underwriters Always Work for Investment Banks?
Underwriters are responsible for assessing risk during financial transactions and deciding whether they or the company they work for will assume that risk. Investment banks are one type of company that employs underwriters. Insurers and other financial institutions also employ underwriters. The entire underwriting department of an investment bank can serve as book runner.


   The Bottom Line  

A book runner is the primary underwriter when an investment bank issues new equity, debt, or securities instruments. They are the lead underwriting firm that runs or is in charge of the books, for example during an IPO.



The book runner usually works with other investment banks to establish an underwriter syndicate, thereby creating the initial sales force for shares. This reduces risk but also decreases the share of profit that each part of the syndicate makes. However, because the book runner takes on the most responsibility during the offering, they also usually get the highest commission from the transaction.
What Is the Book-to-Bill Ratio?  

A book-to-bill ratio is the ratio of orders received to units shipped and billed for a specified period, generally a month or quarter. It is a widely used metric in the technology industry, specifically in the semiconductor equipment sector.



Investors and analysts closely watch this ratio for an indication of the performance and outlook for individual companies and the technology sector as a whole. A ratio above one implies more orders were received than filled, indicating strong demand, while a ratio below one implies weaker demand.





Key Takeaways

Book-to-bill ratio is the ratio of orders received to units shipped and billed for the period.A ratio above one means more orders were received than filled, indicating strong demand. A ratio below one means more orders were shipped than received during the month, indicating diminishing demand. 


   The Formula for the Book-to-Bill Ratio:  

The formula to calculate book-to bill ratio is:








Book to Bill


=



Orders Received


Orders Shipped




\text{Book to Bill} = \frac{\text{Orders Received}}{\text{Orders Shipped}}


Book to Bill=Orders ShippedOrders Received​


   Understanding the Book-to-Bill Ratio  

A book-to-bill ratio is typically used for measuring supply and demand in volatile industries such as the technology sector. The ratio measures the number of orders coming in compared to the number of orders going out. A company fulfilling orders immediately as they come in has a book-to-bill ratio of 1. For example, Company A books 500 orders for parts and then ships and bills all 500 orders. The booked and billed orders have a ratio of one, or 500/500.



The book-to-bill ratio reveals how quickly a business fulfills the demand for its products. The ratio also shows the strength of a sector, such as aerospace or defense manufacturing. It may also be used when determining whether to purchase stock in a company.



If a business has a ratio of less than one, there may be more supply than demand. For example, Company B books 500 orders for parts, and then ships and bills 610 orders, including some orders from the previous month. The booked and billed orders have a ratio of 0.82. For every dollar of orders, the company billed, only $0.82 of orders were booked that month.



However, if the ratio is greater than one, there may be more of demand than can be efficiently supplied. For example, Company C books 500 orders for parts, and then ships and bills 375 orders. The book-to-bill ratio is 1.3, or 500/375. In contrast, a business with a ratio of one is meeting supply and demand adequately by shipping and billing orders as they are received.


   Real-World Example of the Book-to-Bill Ratio  

As a historical example, in June 2016, companies creating semiconductor pieces in the United States and Canada received orders averaging $1.71 billion over three consecutive months. The book-to-bill ratio was 1. Thus, for every $100 in orders received for the month, $100 of the product was billed. The companies booked $1.75 billion in orders during May 2016, making that month 2.3% more profitable than the average bookings from April through June of that year.




What Is the Difference Between Bookings and Billings?
Bookings represent a customer's intent to commit to a purchase from your business. Billings represent the collection of your customer's money when the purchase is complete.




What Is a Good Book-to-Bill Ratio?
A book-to-bill ratio greater than 1 is typically considered to be a good sign of high demand in an industry. However, it is important to know which performance indicator you are interested in. If you need to know whether a business has enough supply to cover demand, a book-to bill ratio of exactly 1 means it is meeting its customer's demand in a timely manner.




Why Would a Company Have a Book-to-Bill ratio Less Than 1?
A company may have a book-to-bill ratio less than 1 if it is shipping out more units than it has received orders for in the current period, whether that's a month or a quarter, etc. If a company ships out more units than it receives orders for in the same period, it means it is fulfilling orders from a previous period. That is indicative of a decreasing demand for the product.


   The Bottom Line  

The book-to-bill ratio can help managers and investors learn whether a company is meeting demand, has more demand for its products than it is filling, or has more supply of its products than demand for them. This metric is used widely in the technology industry and helps assess the performance and outlook of individual companies and of an industry sector as a whole.
What Is the Book-to-Market Ratio?  

The book-to-market ratio is one indicator of a company's value. The ratio compares a firm's book value to its market value. A company's book value is calculated by looking at the company's historical cost, or accounting value. A firm's market value is determined by its share price in the stock market and the number of shares it has outstanding, which is its market capitalization.





Key Takeaways:

The book-to-market ratio helps investors find a company's value by comparing the firm's book value to its market value.A high book-to-market ratio might mean that the market is valuing the company's equity cheaply compared to its book value.Many investors are familiar with the price-to-book ratio, which is simply the inverse of the book-to-market ratio formula.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding the Book-to-Market Ratio  

The book-to-market ratio compares a company's book value to its market value. The book value is the value of assets minus the value of the liabilities. The market value of a company is the market price of one of its shares multiplied by the number of shares outstanding. The book-to-market ratio is a useful indicator for investors who need to assess the value of a company.



The formula for the book-to-market ratio is the following:








Book-to-Market


=



Common Shareholders’ Equity


Market Cap




\text{Book-to-Market}=\frac{\text{Common Shareholders' Equity}}{\text{Market Cap}}


Book-to-Market=Market CapCommon Shareholders’ Equity​


   What Does the Book-to-Market Ratio Tell You?  

If the market value of a company is trading higher than its book value per share, it is considered to be overvalued. If the book value is higher than the market value, analysts consider the company to be undervalued. The book-to-market ratio is used to compare a company’s net asset value or book value to its current or market value.



The book value of a firm is its historical cost or accounting value calculated from the company’s balance sheet. Book value can be calculated by subtracting total liabilities, preferred shares, and intangible assets from the total assets of a company. In effect, the book value represents how much a company would have left in assets if it went out of business today. Some analysts use the total shareholders' equity figure on the balance sheet as the book value.



The market value of a publicly-traded company is determined by calculating its market capitalization, which is simply the total number of shares outstanding multiplied by the current share price. The market value is the price that investors are willing to pay to acquire or sell the stock in the secondary markets. Since it is determined by supply and demand in the market, it does not always represent the actual value of a firm.


   How to Use the Book-to-Market Ratio  

The book-to-market ratio identifies undervalued or overvalued securities by taking the book value and dividing it by the market value. The ratio determines the market value of a company relative to its actual worth. Investors and analysts use this comparison ratio to differentiate between the true value of a publicly-traded company and investor speculation.



In basic terms, if the ratio is above 1, then the stock is undervalued. If it is less than 1, the stock is considered overvalued. A ratio above 1 indicates that the stock price of a company is trading for less than the worth of its assets. A high ratio is preferred by value managers who interpret it to mean that the company is a value stock—that is, it is trading cheaply in the market compared to its book value.



A book-to-market ratio below 1 implies that investors are willing to pay more for a company than its net assets are worth. This could indicate that the company has healthy future profit projections and investors are willing to pay a premium for that possibility. Technology companies and other companies in industries that do not have a lot of physical assets tend to have a low book-to-market ratio.


   Difference Between the Book-to-Market Ratio and Market-to-Book Ratio  

The market-to-book ratio, also called the price-to-book ratio, is the reverse of the book-to-market ratio. Like the book-to-market ratio, it seeks to evaluate whether a company's stock is over or undervalued by comparing the market price of all outstanding shares with the net assets of the company.



A market-to-book ratio above 1 means that the company’s stock is overvalued. A ratio below 1 indicates that it may be undervalued; the reverse is the case for the book-to-market ratio. Analysts can use either ratio to run a comparison on the book and market value of a firm.
What Is Book Value?  

For value investors, book value is the sum of the amounts of all the line items in the shareholders' equity section on a company's balance sheet. You can also calculate book value by subtracting a business's total liabilities from its total assets.



There is also a book value used by accountants to valuate assets owned by a company. This differs from book value for investors because it is used internally for managerial accounting purposes.





Key Takeaways

A company's book value is the sum of all the line items in the shareholders' equity section of a balance sheet.Book value is often different than a company's market value.Book value per share (BVPS) and price-to-book (P/B) ratio are utilized in fundamental analysis.


   Understanding Book Value  

Shareholders' equity is a section on a company's balance sheet that explains where their money is. The image below is Amazon's consolidated balance sheet for its 2022 fiscal year. Pay attention to the Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity (in the red box, also called shareholders' equity) section.













On the balance sheet, you see "Total Stockholders' Equity" with a value of $138.2 billion. This figure is calculated by adding the values of preferred stock, common stock, Treasuries, paid-in capital, additional comprehensive income, and retained earnings. Some companies include unrealized gains or losses, capital surplus or cumulative adjustments, and many other line items, depending on the industry the company operates in and its internal accounting procedures.



The following image shows that Coca-Cola has an "Equity Attributable to Shareowners" line. In this case, this would be the book value for an investor valuating Coca-Cola.













Since a company’s book value represents the shareholding worth, comparing book value with the market value of the shares can serve as an effective valuation technique when trying to decide whether shares are fairly priced.


  Book Value Uses  

Book value has two main investor uses:



It is used in other financial ratios to help investors valuate a company
As a comparison to the company's market value, book value can indicate whether a stock is underpriced or overpriced.



Book value is also included in some financial ratios that help investors learn more about a company's financial situation.


   Book Value per Share (BVPS)  

Book value per share (BVPS) is a quick calculation used to determine the per-share value of a company based on the amount of common shareholders' equity in the company. To get BVPS, you divide total shareholders' equity by the total number of outstanding common shares.



So, if a company had $21 million in shareholders' equity and two million outstanding common shares, its book value per share would be $10.50. Keep in mind this calculation doesn't include any of the other line items that might be in the shareholders' equity section, only common shares outstanding.






There is a difference between outstanding and issued shares, but some companies might call outstanding common shares "issued" shares in their reports.


   Price-to-Book (P/B) Ratio  

Price-to-book (P/B) ratio as a valuation multiple is useful for comparing value between similar companies within the same industry when they follow a uniform accounting method for asset valuation. The ratio may not serve as a valid valuation basis when comparing companies from different sectors and industries because companies record their assets differently.



As a result, a high P/B ratio would not necessarily be a premium valuation, and conversely, a low P/B ratio would not automatically be a discount valuation.



The price-to-book ratio is simple to calculate—you divide the market price per share by the book value per share. In the previous example, the book value per share was $10.50. So, if the company's shares had a current market value of $13.17, its price-to-book ratio would be 0.98 ($13.17 ÷ $10.50).




Why Is It Called ‘Book Value’?
Book value gets its name from accounting lingo, where the accounting journal and ledger are known as a company’s “books.” In fact, another name for accounting is bookkeeping.




What Does a Price-To-Book (P/B) Ratio of 1.0 Mean?
A P/B ratio of 1.0 indicates that the market price of a company’s shares is exactly equal to its book value. For value investors, this may signal a good buy since the market price of a company generally carries some premium over book value.




Why Is Market Value Often Higher Than Book Value?
Book value only uses a company's total shareholder equity. It does not include intangible assets such as patents, intellectual property, brand value, and goodwill. It also does not account for workers' skills, human capital, and future profits and growth. Therefore, the market value—which is determined by the market (sellers and buyers) and is how much investors are willing to pay by accounting for all of these factors—will generally be higher.


   The Bottom Line  

Book value is the value of a company's total assets minus its total liabilities. In other words, it is equal to total shareholders' equity. A company's market value will usually be greater than its book value since the market price incorporates investor's thoughts and calculations about intangible assets such as intellectual property, human capital, and future growth prospects. Value investors look for companies with relatively low book values (using metrics like P/B ratio or BVPS) but otherwise strong fundamentals as potentially underpriced stocks in which to invest.



Correction—Aug. 24, 2023: This article was corrected from a previous version that combined managerial accounting book value with value investing book value, which are two different concepts. As the article now states correctly, investing book value is the line item "Total Shareholders' Equity" or an equivalent entry from a company's balance sheet.
What Is Book Value Per Share (BVPS)?  

Book value per share (BVPS) is the ratio of equity available to common shareholders divided by the number of outstanding shares. This figure represents the minimum value of a company's equity and measures the book value of a firm on a per-share basis.





Key Takeaways

Book value per share (BVPS) takes the ratio of a firm's common equity divided by its number of shares outstanding.Book value of equity per share effectively indicates a firm's net asset value (total assets - total liabilities) on a per-share basis.When a stock is undervalued, it will have a higher book value per share in relation to its current stock price in the market.BVPS is used mainly by stock investors to evaluate a company's stock price.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Book Value Per Share (BVPS)  

The book value per share (BVPS) metric can be used by investors to gauge whether a stock price is undervalued by comparing it to the firm's market value per share. If a company’s BVPS is higher than its market value per share—its current stock price—then the stock is considered undervalued. If the firm's BVPS increases, the stock should be perceived as more valuable, and the stock price should increase. An exception to this valuation is in bank stocks which tend to trade below their BVPS due to their increased risk from trading activities.
In theory, BVPS is the sum that shareholders would receive in the event that the firm was liquidated, all of the tangible assets were sold and all of the liabilities were paid. However, as the assets would be sold at market prices, and book value uses the historical costs of assets, market value is considered a better floor price than book value for a company.
If a company's share price falls below its BVPS, a corporate raider could make a risk-free profit by buying the company and liquidating it. If book value is negative, where a company's liabilities exceed its assets, this is known as a balance sheet insolvency.
The formula for BVPS is:





B


V


P


S


 


=


 




Total Equity 


−


 Preferred Equity



Total Shares Outstanding




BVPS\ =\ \frac{\text{Total Equity}\ -\ \text{Preferred Equity}}{\text{Total Shares Outstanding}}


BVPS = Total Shares OutstandingTotal Equity − Preferred Equity​
Shareholders’ equity is the owners’ residual claim in the company after debts have been paid. It is equal to a firm's total assets minus its total liabilities, which is the net asset value or book value of the company as a whole.






Since preferred stockholders have a higher claim on assets and earnings than common shareholders, preferred stock is subtracted from shareholders' equity to derive the equity available to common shareholders.


   Example of Book Value Per Share  

Assume, for example, that XYZ Manufacturing’s common equity balance is $10 million, and that 1 million shares of common stock are outstanding. This means that the BVPS is ($10 million / 1 million shares), or $10 per share. If XYZ can generate higher profits and use those profits to buy more assets or reduce liabilities, the firm's common equity increases.



If, for example, the company generates $500,000 in earnings and uses $200,000 of the profits to buy assets, common equity increases along with BVPS. If XYZ uses $300,000 of its earnings to reduce liabilities, common equity also increases.



Another way to increase BVPS is to repurchase common stock from shareholders. Many companies use earnings to buy back shares. Using the XYZ example, assume that the firm repurchases 200,000 shares of stock and that 800,000 shares remain outstanding. If common equity is $10 million, BVPS increases to $12.50 per share. Besides stock repurchases, a company can also increase BVPS by taking steps to increase the asset balance and reduce liabilities.


   Market Value Per Share vs. Book Value Per Share  

While BVPS is calculated using historical costs, the market value per share is a forward-looking metric that takes into account a company's future earning power. An increase in a company’s potential profitability or expected growth rate should increase the market value per share.



For example, a marketing campaign will reduce BVPS by increasing costs. However, if this builds brand value and the company is able to charge premium prices for its products, its stock price might rise far above its BVPS.




What Does Book Value Per Share (BVPS) Tell You?
In theory, BVPS is the sum that shareholders would receive in the event that the firm was liquidated, all of the tangible assets were sold and all of the liabilities were paid. However, its value lies in the fact that investors use it to gauge whether a stock price is undervalued by comparing it to the firm's market value per share. If a company’s BVPS is higher than its market value per share, which is its current stock price, then the stock is considered undervalued.




How Can Companies Increase BVPS?
A company can use a portion of its earnings to buy assets that would increase common equity along with BVPS. Or, it could use its earnings to reduce liabilities, which would also result in an increase in its common equity and BVPS. Another way to increase BVPS is to repurchase common stock from shareholders and many companies use earnings to buy back shares.




How Does BVPS Differ from Market Value Per Share?
While BVPS is calculated using historical costs, the market value per share is a forward-looking metric that takes into account a company's future earning power. An increase in a company’s potential profitability or expected growth rate should increase the market value per share. Essentially, the market price per share is the current price of a single share in a publicly traded stock. Unlike BVPS, market price per share is not fixed as it fluctuates based solely on market forces of supply and demand.
What Is Book Value Per Common Share?  

Book value per common share (or, simply book value per share - BVPS) is a method to calculate the per-share book value of a company based on common shareholders' equity in the company. The book value of a company is the difference between that company's total assets and total liabilities, and not its share price in the market.



Should the company dissolve, the book value per common share indicates the dollar value remaining for common shareholders after all assets are liquidated and all creditors are paid.





Key Takeaways

Book value per common share (BVPS) calculates the common stock per-share book value of a firm.Since preferred stockholders have a higher claim on assets and earnings than common shareholders, preferred equity is subtracted from shareholder’s equity to derive the equity available to common shareholders.If a company’s BVPS is higher than its market value per share, then its stock may be considered to be undervalued.


   The Formula for Book Value Per Common Share Is:  

The book value per common share (formula below) is an accounting measure based on historical transactions:



﻿




B


V


P


S


=




T


o


t


a


l


 


S


h


a


r


e


h


o


l


d


e


r


 


E


q


u


i


t


y


−


P


r


e


f


e


r


r


e


d


 


E


q


u


i


t


y




T


o


t


a


l


 


O


u


t


s


t


a


n


d


i


n


g


 


S


h


a


r


e


s





BVPS = \frac{Total \ Shareholder \ Equity - Preferred \ Equity}{Total \ Outstanding \ Shares}


BVPS=Total Outstanding SharesTotal Shareholder Equity−Preferred Equity​﻿


   What Does BVPS Tell You?  

The book value of common equity in the numerator reflects the original proceeds a company receives from issuing common equity, increased by earnings or decreased by losses, and decreased by paid dividends. A company's stock buybacks decrease the book value and total common share count. Stock repurchases occur at current stock prices, which can result in a significant reduction in a company's book value per common share. The common share count used in the denominator is typically an average number of diluted common shares for the last year, which takes into account any additional shares beyond the basic share count that can originate from stock options, warrants, preferred shares, and other convertible instruments.


   Example of BVPS  

As a hypothetical example, assume that XYZ Manufacturing’s common equity balance is $10 million, and that 1 million shares of common stock are outstanding, which means that the BVPS is ($10 million / 1 million shares), or $10 per share. If XYZ can generate higher profits and use those profits to buy more assets or reduce liabilities, the firm's common equity increases. If, for example, the company generates $500,000 in earnings and uses $200,000 of the profits to buy assets, common equity increases along with BVPS. On the other hand, if XYZ uses $300,000 of the earnings to reduce liabilities, common equity also increases.


   The Difference Between Market Value per Share and Book Value per Share  

The market value per share is a company's current stock price, and it reflects a value that market participants are willing to pay for its common share. The book value per share is calculated using historical costs, but the market value per share is a forward-looking metric that takes into account a company's earning power in the future. With increases in a company's estimated profitability, expected growth, and safety of its business, the market value per share grows higher. Significant differences between the book value per share and the market value per share arise due to the ways in which accounting principles classify certain transactions.



For instance, consider a company's brand value, which is built through a series of marketing campaigns. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require marketing costs to be expensed immediately, reducing the book value per share. However, if advertising efforts enhance the image of a company's products, the company can charge premium prices and create brand value. Market demand may increase the stock price, which results in a large divergence between the market and book values per share.


   The Difference Between Book Value per Share and Net Asset Value (NAV)  

While BVPS considers the residual equity per-share for a company's stock, net asset value, or NAV, is a per-share value calculated for a mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund, or ETF. For any of these investments, the NAV is calculated by dividing the total value of all the fund's securities by the total number of outstanding fund shares. NAV is generated daily for mutual funds. Total annual return is considered by a number of analysts to be a better, more accurate gauge of a mutual fund's performance, but the NAV is still used as a handy interim evaluation tool.


   Limitations of BVPS  

Because book value per share only considers the book value, it fails to incorporate other intangible factors that may increase the market value of a company's shares, even upon liquidation. For instance, banks or high-tech software companies often have very little tangible assets relative to their intellectual property and human capital (labor force). These intangibles would not always be factored in to a book value calculation.



Correction—Jan 23, 2023:  This article has been edited from a previous version that incorrectly stated that debtors are paid after assets are liquidated. In fact, creditors are paid after assets are liquidated
What Is a Bookie?  

A bookie, short or slang for “bookmaker,” is someone who facilitates gambling, most commonly on sporting events. A bookie sets odds, accepts and places bets, and pays out winnings on behalf of other people.





Key Takeaways

The term “bookie“ is slang for “bookmaker.“A bookie places bets for customers, usually on sporting events. They also set odds and pay out winnings on behalf of other people.The bookie’s goal is to maintain balance in the books by adjusting the odds as much as possible to maintain an even amount of people betting on a win or loss.


   Understanding Bookies  

Bookies do not usually make their money by placing bets themselves; rather, they charge a transaction fee on their customers’ bets known as the “vigorish” (“vig” for short). Bookies may also lend money to bettors. A bookie can be an individual or an organization.



Although the term “bookie“ has been associated with illegal activity, with the expansion of sports betting, being a bookmaker has become a legitimate occupation. However, bookmaking and placing bets through a bookmaker can still be illegal. The legality of different types of gambling is largely determined by state governments.






In 2018, the Supreme Court gave states permission to legalize betting on sports if they wish to do so, a landmark ruling that paved the way for bookies to make lots of money without running afoul of the law.


   History of Bookies and Sports Betting  

Throughout most of the 20th and 21st centuries, sports betting in the U.S. was only completely legal in Nevada, though it was legal in certain forms in Delaware, Montana, and Oregon. As a result, a black market developed for the rest of the country whereby illegal operations of bookies provided opportunities for betting. Some bookies were involved in organized crime, while others operated independently, simply taking bets for a few friends, family members, or colleagues.



However, in 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, which was a federal law preventing states from deciding on their own whether to allow sports betting. The ruling opened the door for its practice throughout the country if states decide in favor of it. Previously, Nevada was the only state to offer comprehensive legal sports betting.



Since that ruling, many states have moved to legalize sports betting. This has prompted record gambling revenues throughout the country with combined revenue from traditional gambling, sports betting, and iGaming amounting to $52.99 billion in 2021, the highest-grossing year ever and an increase of more than 21% from the previous annual record in 2019. According to reporting by Forbes in August 2021, sports betting companies have been announcing a flurry of acquisitions, seeking to capitalize.





$150 billion

The amount the American Gaming Association estimated that Americans illegally wagered on sports each year before the 2018 Supreme Court ruling.


   Bookies and Setting the Odds  

One of the crucial ways bookies ensure their winnings is by calculating the odds that they will win an event, sometimes by employing teams of statisticians and developing complex models. The terms “lines” (short for “money lines”) and “spreads” (as in “point spreads”) are critical factors for bookies. Sometimes these calculations are based on those developed by casino actuaries or those who deal with risk calculations.



Typically, they underscore which sports team the bookies believe will win a game or match. The lines and spreads can be adjusted in the time leading up to the event based on various bets made in their books and fluctuations in Vegas casino bets. Other unexpected events might impact the odds, such as poor weather, player injuries, and doping scandals.



The bookie’s goal is to maintain balance in the books by adjusting the odds as much as possible so that there’s an even amount of people betting on a win or loss. If the book is balanced, the bookie in effect earns just the vig. However, if there’s a one-sided bet on a particular team or outcome, the bookie takes on an increased risk of losing money.






Gambling always involves a negative expected return—the house always has the advantage. 




Is Being a Bookie Illegal in the U.S.?
No, not necessarily. In 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court opened the door for sports betting throughout the country if states decide in favor of it. Some 33 states have since moved to legalize sports betting, effectively ending the need for bookies to operate illegally in those states. It is still fully illegal in 17 states.However, that isn’t to say that all bookmakers are law-abiding. Betting is still illegal in some states, and some bookies may prefer to conduct business under the table to avoid facing obstacles and paying taxes.




How Do Bookies Make Money?
Bookies make money by charging a fee on each bet they take, known as the "vigorish" or the "vig,” and pay out money when their customers win a bet. Their goal, understandably, is to make sure that incomings exceed outgoings. That is generally achieved by adjusting the odds so that there’s an even amount of people betting on a win or loss.




How Much Is a Bookie Fee?
The vig that bookies charge is usually in the region of 10%, though it can go higher for high-profile bets, such as a tight line on the Super Bowl.






If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, call the National Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-522-4700, or visit ncpgambling.org/chat to chat with a helpline specialist.


   The Bottom Line  

The Supreme Court’s 2018 ruling invalidating the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act has led to the rapid expansion of sports betting across the U.S., with even family-friendly companies such as Walt Disney getting into the act. This means that the profession of bookmaker no longer needs to be an illegal one, though it still can be in some situations.



Anyone thinking of becoming a bookie, however, would do well to study the considerable requirements of the job first. Many skills are required to achieve success in the field, while losing money at gambling is an all-too-easy accomplishment.
What Is the Boom and Bust Cycle?  

The boom and bust cycle is a process of economic expansion and contraction that occurs repeatedly. The boom and bust cycle is a key characteristic of capitalist economies and is sometimes synonymous with the business cycle.



During the boom the economy grows, jobs are plentiful and the market brings high returns to investors. In the subsequent bust the economy shrinks, people lose their jobs and investors lose money. Boom-bust cycles last for varying lengths of time; they also vary in severity.





Key Takeaways

The boom and bust cycle describes alternating phases of economic growth and decline typically found in modern capitalist economies.First anticipated by Karl Marx in the 19th century, the boom bust cycle is driven just as much by investor and consumer psychology as it is by market and economic fundamentals.The cycle can last anywhere from several months to several years, with the average length being approximately 5 years going back to the 1850s.


   Understanding the Boom and Bust Cycle  

Since the mid-1940s, the United States has experienced several boom and bust cycles. Why do we have a boom and bust cycle instead of a long, steady economic growth period? The answer can be found in the way central banks handle the money supply.



During a boom, a central bank makes it easier to obtain credit by lending money at low interest rates. Individuals and businesses can then borrow money easily and cheaply and invest it in, say, technology stocks or houses. Many people earn high returns on their investments, and the economy grows.



The problem is that when credit is too easy to obtain and interest rates are too low, people will overinvest. This excess investment is called “malinvestment.” There won’t be enough demand for, say, all the homes that have been built, and the bust cycle will set in. Things that have been overinvested in will decline in value. Investors lose money, consumers cut spending and companies cut jobs. Credit becomes more difficult to obtain as boom-time borrowers become unable to make their loan payments. The bust periods are referred to as recessions; if the recession is particularly severe, it is called a depression.






According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, there were 34 business cycles between 1854 and 2020, with each full cycle lasting roughly 56 months on average.﻿﻿


   Additional Factors in Boom and Bust Cycles  

Plummeting confidence also contributes to the bust cycle. Investors and consumers get nervous when the stock market corrects or even a crashes. Investors sell their positions, and buy safe-haven investments that traditionally don't lose value, such as bonds, gold, and the U.S. dollar. As companies lay off workers, consumers lose their jobs and stop buying anything but necessities. That exacerbates the a downward economic spiral.



The bust cycle eventually stops on its own. That happens when prices are so low that those investors that still have cash start buying again. This can take a long time, and even lead to a depression. Confidence can be restored more quickly by central bank monetary policy and government fiscal policy. 



Government subsidies that make it less expensive to invest may also contribute to the boom-bust cycle by encouraging companies and individuals to overinvest in the subsidized item. For example, the mortgage interest tax deduction subsidizes a home purchase by making the mortgage interest less expensive. The subsidy encourages more people to buy homes.
What Is Bootstrapping?  

Bootstrapping describes a situation in which an entrepreneur starts a company with little capital, relying on money other than outside investments. An individual is said to be bootstrapping when they attempt to found and build a company from personal finances or the operating revenues of the new company. Bootstrapping also describes a procedure used to calculate the zero-coupon yield curve from market figures.





Key Takeaways

Bootstrapping is founding and running a company using only personal finances or operating revenue.This form of financing allows the entrepreneur to maintain more control, but it also can increase financial strain.Owners can bootstrap by cutting costs, personally financing operations, cutting back operations, or looking for other creative short-term financing solutions.The term also refers to a method of building the yield curve for certain bonds.GoPro, Facebook, and Amazon are examples of companies with humble beginnings and bootstrapped starts.


   Understanding Bootstrapping  

Bootstrapping a company occurs when a business owner starts a company with little to no assets. This is in contrast to starting a company by first raising capital through angel investors or venture capital firms. Instead, bootstrapped founders rely on personal savings, sweat equity, lean operations, quick inventory turnover, and a cash runway to become successful. For example, a bootstrapped company may take preorders for its product, thereby using the funds generated from the orders actually to build and deliver the product itself.



Compared to using venture capital, bootstrapping can be beneficial because the entrepreneur is able to maintain control over all decisions. On the downside, this form of financing may place unnecessary financial risk on the entrepreneur. Furthermore, bootstrapping may not provide enough investment for the company to become successful at a reasonable rate.



In investment finance, bootstrapping is a method that builds a spot rate curve for a zero-coupon bond. This methodology is essentially used to fill in the gaps between yields for Treasury securities or Treasury coupon strips. For example, since the T-bills offered by the government are not available for every time period, the bootstrapping method is used to fill in the missing figures to derive the yield curve. The bootstrap method uses interpolation to determine the yields for Treasury zero-coupon securities with various maturities.


   How to Bootstrap a Business  
  Assess Bootstrapping Strategies Early  

Before bootstrapping their start-up company, business owners should first assess whether bootstrapping makes sense for their operations. It may not be financially feasible to bootstrap a company that requires high upfront capital investments to form. Some businesses may also have a slower turnaround of inventory, meaning bootstrapped cash may be tied up for a longer period of time.


  Create a Business Plan  

If bootstrapping makes sense, an early step for a business owner is to form a business plan. This business plan should include a financial budget that outlines the expected cash inflows and outflows for the next few years. A business owner may decide that at different stages of company growth, a varying amount of capital needs to be bootstrapped.


  Determine Revenue Retention Plan  

A critical aspect of the bootstrapping plan is to determine how revenue will be cycled through a company. For example, during the start-up phase, 100% of operations may be funded by bootstrapped cash until the company earns revenue from customers. An owner should decide upfront how that revenue will be used (i.e. to channel business growth, to "reimburse" the owner", etc.). The main risk is extracting cash too soon, not fully developing the company and leaving both the company and owner at risk of loss.


  Identify Where Resources Will Come From  

In order to bootstrap, an owner needs to decide where resources will come from and what options of bootstrapping they want to pursue. For example, the owner may decide to use their own cash, use their personal line of credit, use their own time to save capital, or adjust business practices to accommodate the growth period. The business owner must be mindful that each of these options has its own detriments (i.e. capital may be lost, time can not be recovered, limited business may stunt company growth).






Bootstrapping of often the stage of a company where the big business idea has been created but the underlying resources to foster the idea aren't available yet.


   Bootstrapping Strategies  

Not all bootstrapped operations employ the same strategies. There's a number of different opportunities start-ups can use to temporarily get the resources they need until operations are more robust. Here are some of the more common bootstrapping strategies.


  Contribute Personal Equity  

When a company first forms, it often needs upfront capital. One of the most common form of bootstrapping is for the business founder to contribute personal capital as an initial financial investment into the company. Sometimes, depending on the industry and business operating strategy, a founder must supply capital at various stages during the early days of a company.


  Incur Personal Debt  

If an owner or founder does not have enough capital on hand, they may decide to take out personal loans to finance the company. The company likely can't receive a loan (or receive nearly as favorable loan terms) because it does not have an established financial history as the founder has. Because this bootstrapping method results in personal debt, the owner is personally liable for debt and may have personal assets seized should they go bankrupt and default on the loan.


  Cut/Avoid Costs  

When the early days of a company, the owner may bootstrap by limiting what the company spends on. For example, the owner may personally deliver goods to customers in their local area instead of paying extra for delivery services. In this bootstrapping strategy, the owner is not limited what is done; it is limiting how things are done. Most often, this strategy results in a trade between capital and time. This means the owner is willing to sacrifice their time as capital may be low.


  Form Business Relationships  

A company may also decide to pull in third parties or other investors to help with the financing of the operations. Though this is often a more permanent, long-term investment, sometimes owners rely on short-term agreements to temporarily finance the business. For example, a third party may buy stock or issue debt to earn a short-term return. Though this agreement puts the third party at risk, it is less of a risk than a long-term investment without defined payback or liquidation terms.


  Limit Business Operations  

Many times, a company bootstraps by temporarily limiting what the company can do. For example, it may only manufacture items upon a paid order. It may only sell to a specific geographical area due to shipping constraints. It may only sell specific goods for a defined period of time until it has the capital to sell additional, more profitable but more expensive to manufacture goods. A founder must be strategic in the benchmarks it hopes to achieve before unlocking other aspects of the business operations.






Bootstrapping is not required to start a business. A founder may accumulate resources before starting their company to have its needs meet from the company's first day.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Bootstrapping  
  Pros of Bootstrapping  

Bootstrapping often allows an owner to retain control over the company. Though one of the options is to pursue short-term financing from a third-party, most forms of bootstrapping rely on just the owner's resources. This means the owner doesn't need to sacrifice long-term flexibility due to short-term constraints.



Bootstrapping may lead to greater short-term profitability as the owner is hyper-conscious of costs. For example, the owner may intentionally avoid costs in the short term, though these expenses like software and infrastructure are necessary in the long term.



An owner also usually has a lower barrier of entry into an industry when they bootstrap as an owner may not have all of the capital needed upfront. Instead, the owner can slowly build resources through resourcefulness and deliberate actions relating to the business.


  Cons of Bootstrapping  

Not all aspects of bootstrapping are great, especially in the long term. Because the financing of the company may not be 100% secured, there is increased risk that the business may fail, especially if a large unforeseen expense arises. As there are many areas a company may fall short such as a supplier not following through or equipment breaking, a company may find it needs capital sooner than it may originally expect.



Bootstrapping, by definition, means a company is operating with limited resources. This may prohibit how much a company is able to reinvest back into the company as opposed to return to the owner. The owner is simultaneously trying to raise business for its company as well as return its personal capital, both of which compete for the same capital.



In addition, by bootstrapping, a company may face short-term branding and image issues. For example, consider a company that self-delivers its own products by driving around town. As this is untraditional, some prospective buyers may feel it demonstrates how small the operations are. For investors and suppliers, they may resist interacting with the company due to the heightened risk of interacting with that immature of a company.




Bootstrapping Pros and Cons

Pros

Often allows for an owner to have greater control of the company
Naturally reduces the expenses of a company due to cost avoidance measures
May make it possible for someone to start a business due to lower barrier of entry
Places a heightened emphasis on business operations



Cons

Increases financial risk as a company may not be able to cover emergency or unexpected costs
Requires a company to operate with limited resources
May diminish how customers, suppliers, or investors view the company





   Examples of Bootstrapping  

There are many examples of bootstrapping, as many companies start with humble beginnings and limited resources. A class example of bootstrapping is Jeff Bezos' personal software development for Amazon.com which operated out of his garage with just a handful of employees when it sold its first book in 1995.



Other founders take even more nontraditional routes of financing their companies. GoPro founder Nick Woodman reportedly borrowed $35,000 from his mother and went as far as to using his mother's sewing machine to craft early designs of GoPro devices.



A more popular and sensationalized means of bootstrapping was Facebook's humble beginnings. Named "The Facebook" at the time, Mark Zuckerberg launched the social media site in 2004 from his college dorm room. This is in stark contrast to Facebook's estimated 2022 total expenses between $85 million to $87 million.




Why Is It Called Bootstrapping?
Bootstrapping earned its term in the 1800s based on the phrase "pull oneself up by one's bootstraps" (or other slight variations). The saying was a reference to doing difficult things by tugging on the ankle straps of high-top boots. The phrase has continued to be used to reference any undertaking that may require extra effort because it is difficult.




Is Bootstrapping Bad?
Bootstrapping is not necessarily bad. If a business owner doesn't have all the resources it needs on the first day of operations, they may need to take special considerations to make sure the business needs are met. Many successful businesses have bootstrapped during its infancy and though some may negatively view the process, others may find charm in bootstrapping and have greater respect for these types of companies.




Is Bootstrapping Sustainable?
The idea behind bootstrapping is to temporarily find solutions to meet business needs until more permanent solutions are possible. It is usually not in the best interest of the company to permanently bootstrap as this exposes a company to higher financial risk than necessary. Bootstrapping may also be taxing to the owner who often prefers to have a more stable, scalable strategy to develop their company.


   The Bottom Line  

The best-case scenario for many new companies is to have all of the resources it needs on their first. Unfortunately, that's usually not how things go. Businesses must often bootstrap or temporarily come up with creative, resourceful solutions to make sure their business needs are being met. Whether relying on personal capital, cutting costs, or limiting business operations, owners have an array of strategies to bootstrap but also face a number of potential downsides.
What Is a Borrowing Base?  

A borrowing base is the amount of money that a lender is willing to loan a company, based on the value of the collateral the company pledges. The borrowing base is typically determined by a method known as "margining," in which the lender determines a discount factor, which is then multiplied by the value of the collateral in question. The resulting numerical figure represents the amount of money a lender will loan out to the company.


   Understanding Borrowing Bases  

Various assets may be used as collateral, including accounts receivable, inventory, and equipment. If a company approaches a lender to borrow money, the lender will assess the borrowing company's strengths and weaknesses. Based on the perceived risk the lending company associates with loaning money to this company, a discount factor is then determined—say 85%. Under this scenario, if the borrower offers $100,000 worth of collateral, the maximum amount of cash the lender will give the company is 85% of $100,000, which equals $85,000.






A borrowing base is the amount of money a lender is willing to loan a company, based on the value of the collateral the company presents.


   Why Lenders Use a Borrowing Base  

Lenders feel more comfortable making loans rooted in borrowing bases since those loans are made against specific sets of assets. Furthermore, the borrowing base can be adjusted downward to protect the lender. For example, if the value of the collateral drops, the credit limit declines along with it.



On the other hand, should the value of the collateral increase, the borrowing base will likewise escalate up to a predetermined limit.


   The Mechanics  

The borrower must also provide the lender with certain information used to determine the borrowing base, including data on sales, collections, and inventory. With middle-market and large asset-based loans, borrowers are often required to periodically furnish lenders with certificates that disclose various details of the companies' business dealings. For example, the certificate might itemize a company's eligible receivables, if the borrowing base is determined by that consideration.



Lenders may conduct regular investigations of a company, to check up on the borrower’s business operations. As part of this initiative, lenders may dispatch appraisers to value the collateral used in calculating the borrowing base to determine if there are any significant changes to the underlying worth of the items in question.


   Example of a Borrowing Base  

Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation did not have any borrowings outstanding under its revolving credit facility as of March 31, 2016. Since then, on the first day of every April, its borrowing base is annually redetermined, although the lender is at liberty to request a redetermination whenever Cabot acquires or sells oil and gas properties. On April 19, 2016, the borrowing base was lowered from $3.4 billion to $3.2 billion.﻿﻿
What Is a Both-to-Blame Collision Clause?  

A both-to-blame collision clause is part of the ocean marine insurance policy that states that if a ship (vessel) collides with another ship due to the negligence of both, owners and shippers of both vessels must share in the losses in proportion with the monetary values of their cargo and interests before the collision. The owners of the cargo and company responsible for shipment are both required to pay for losses.





Key Takeaways

A both-to-blame collision clause is an insurance policy clause that says both vessel owners must share in the responsibility of a collision between ships if the crash was due to negligence.Marine insurance coverage includes such actions as ship sinking or collisions but does not cover wear and tear or war.The Hague-Visby Rules say that if the carrier has exercised due diligence to provide a seaworthy ship they are not liable for claims resulting from a collision partly or wholly caused by negligent navigation. The both-to-blame collision clause is designed to preserve the protection a carrier has under the Hague-Visby Rules by giving a contractual indemnity against the cargo interests. 


   How a Both-to-Blame Collision Clause Works  

As globalization grows, the shipping industry also grows. In the event of a collision, the company's liabilities, and thus risk, will be limited to ocean marine insurance. An ocean marine insurance provides coverage against losses for ships. It protects in the event of damage or destruction of a ship's hull and/or the ship's freight.



Some protections also provided under this insurance include:



A collision of the ship with another ship or object.A ship sinking, capsizing, or being stranded.Fire, piracy, jettisoning (throwing overboard of property to save other property).Barratry (fraud or an illegal act by a ship's master or crew).



Damage due to wear and tear, dampness, decay, mold, and war are not included in the coverage.


   Special Considerations  

The Hague-Visby Rules provide that, if the carrier has exercised due diligence to provide a seaworthy ship, they are not liable for claims resulting from a collision partly or wholly caused by negligent navigation (Article IV Rule 2(a)). Commonly, both vessels are partly to blame for a collision and cargo interests may then present their claims in tort against the non-carrying vessel.



Under U.S. law, claimants could recover their claims in full from the owners of the other vessel, who could then recover one half from the carriers. This rule circumvents the navigational error defense. It also creates a situation in which cargo interests could not recover restitution if the carrying vessel was wholly to blame. The both-to-blame collision clause is designed to preserve the protection a carrier has under the Hague-Visby Rules by giving a contractual indemnity against the cargo interests.


   Example of Both-to-Blame Collision Clause  

If Ship A collides with Ship B, due to the fault of Ship B, the owner of any goods in Ship A, which are damaged or lost by the fault of Ship B, can claim 100% of the damage from the owners of Ship B. 



However, due to the Both-to-Blame Collision Clause, and in circumstances where apportionment of blame is deemed to be 50/50, the owner of Ship B has the right to claim 50% of their liability from the owners of Ship A. 



This leaves Ship A with a bill for half the cost of the damage, so Ship A passes that cost back to the owner of the goods, by way of the Both-to-Blame Collision Clause in the Bill of Lading.
What Is a Bottleneck?  

A bottleneck is a point of congestion in a production system (such as an assembly line or a computer network) that stops or severely slows the system. The inefficiencies brought about by the bottleneck often create delays and higher production costs.



The term “bottleneck” refers to the typical shape of a bottle and the fact that the bottle’s neck is the narrowest point, which is the most likely place for congestion to occur, slowing down the flow of liquid from the bottle.



There are two main types of bottlenecks: short-term and long-term. A short-term bottleneck is temporary and typically caused by temporary conditions such as employees on vacation or on sick leave. Long-term bottlenecks are baked into the production process and include such things as inefficient machinery.



Bottlenecking, the process that creates bottlenecks, can have a significant impact on the flow of manufacturing and can sharply increase the time and expense of production. Companies are more at risk for bottlenecks when they start the production process for a new product. This is because there may be flaws in the process that the company must identify and correct; this situation requires more scrutiny and fine-tuning. Operations management is concerned with controlling the production process, identifying potential bottlenecks before they occur, and finding efficient solutions.





Key Takeaways

A bottleneck is a point of congestion in a production system that stops or severely slows the system.Short-term bottlenecks are temporary and usually caused by employees on vacation or sick leave.Long-term bottlenecks are built into the manufacturing protocol and often related to inefficient equipment or processes.Bottlenecking, the process that creates bottlenecks, can have a significant impact on the flow of manufacturing and can sharply increase the time and expense of production.Bottlenecks have a negative effect on practical production capacity, keeping it further below theoretical (perfect) capacity than normal.Eliminating bottlenecks is key to increasing production efficiency.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding a Bottleneck  

As an example, assume that a furniture manufacturer moves wood, metal, and other raw materials into production, then incurs labor and machine costs to produce and assemble furniture. When production is complete, the finished goods are stored in inventory. The inventory cost is often transferred to the cost of goods sold (COGS) when the furniture is sold to a customer.



If there is a bottleneck at the beginning of production, the furniture maker cannot move enough raw materials into the process, which means that machines sit idle and paid workers don’t work productively, creating a situation of underutilization of resources. This increases the cost of production, presents a potentially large opportunity cost, and may mean that completed goods do not ship to customers on time.






Traffic congestion on roads and highways is often caused by bottlenecks that restrict vehicle flow. This can be due to poor planning, roadwork, or an accident that closes one or more lanes.


   Bottlenecks and Production Capacity  

A bottleneck affects the level of production capacity that a firm can achieve each month. Theoretical capacity assumes that a company can produce at maximum capacity at all times. This concept assumes no machine breakdowns, bathroom breaks, or employee vacations.



Because theoretical capacity is not realistic, most businesses use practical capacity to manage production. This level of capacity assumes downtime for machine repairs and employee time off. Practical capacity provides a range for which different processes can operate efficiently without breaking down. Go above the optimum range, and the risk increases for a bottleneck due to a breakdown of one or more processes.



If a company finds that its production capacity is inadequate to meet its production goals, it has several options. Company management could decide to lower their production goals to bring them in line with their production capacity. Or, they could work to find solutions that simultaneously prevent bottlenecks and increase production. Companies often use capacity requirements planning (CRP) tools and methods to determine and meet production goals.


   Bottlenecks and Production Variances  

A variance in the production process is the difference between budgeted and actual results. Managers analyze variances to make changes, including changes to remove bottlenecks. If actual labor costs are much higher than budgeted amounts, the manager may determine that a bottleneck is delaying production and wasting labor hours. If management can remove the bottleneck, labor costs can be reduced.



A bottleneck can also cause a material variance if materials are exposed to spoilage or possible damage as they sit on the factory floor waiting to be used in production. Bottlenecks may be resolved by increasing capacity utilization, finding new suppliers, automating labor processes, and creating better forecasts for consumer demand.


   Real-World Example of a Bottleneck  

Bottlenecks may also arise when demand spikes unexpectedly and exceeds the production capacity of a firm’s factories or suppliers. For instance, when Tesla Inc. (TSLA) first began production of its all-electric vehicles, demand was high for the vehicles, and some analysts were concerned that production would be slowed due to problems in the production line. In fact, Tesla has experienced ongoing production bottlenecks due to the need to manufacture the custom battery packs that supply their vehicles with power.



Tesla founder Elon Musk has said the company’s ability to expand its product lineup depends squarely on its ability to produce a large number of batteries. To make that happen, in a joint venture with Panasonic, Tesla opened a massive Gigafactory near Reno, Nev., in 2016, which makes the company’s lithium ion batteries and electric vehicle subassemblies. By mid-2018, the company claimed that its factory was already the highest-volume battery plant in the world in terms of gigawatt-hours (GWh). To make a dent in the waiting list for back-ordered vehicles, Tesla says it will need to continue to invest in and build more Gigafactories worldwide.




Why is it called a bottleneck?
A bottleneck occurs when there is not enough capacity to meet the demand or throughput for a product or service. It is called a bottleneck since the neck of a bottle narrows and tapers, restricting the amount of liquid that can flow out of a bottle at once.




What is a bottleneck in manufacturing?
A bottleneck occurs in manufacturing when there is a stage (or stages) in the process that slows down the overall production of a good. For instance, initial steps may rapidly assemble key parts, but a crucial next step that welds the parts together may not be able to keep pace with the earlier stages. As a result, a backlog occurs and efficiency is reduced. The bottleneck should be solved by expanding that process, investing in better technology to speed up that process, or hiring more workers to help with that process.




What is a bottleneck in the services industry?
Many services are carried out by human beings who have a natural limit on how fast or efficiently they can work. For instance, a barber may only be able to cut the hair of three individuals per hour. If more people want a haircut, they will have to wait, and this can cause a backlog. Ways to reduce a bottleneck are to hire additional barbers, or to increase the efficiency of the barber using technology or skills training (so that they can accommodate four customers per hour).


   The Bottom Line  

A bottleneck is a point of congestion in a production system that slows or stops progress. Short-term bottlenecks are temporary and often caused by a labor shortage. Long-term bottlenecks are more incorporated into the system itself and characterized by inefficient machinery or processes.



Since bottlenecking is counterproductive and leads to a reduction in production efficiency, eliminating bottlenecks is key to increasing profitability. The best way to eliminate bottlenecks is to increase system capacity by restructuring the process or investing in people and machinery.
What Is the Bottom Line?  

The bottom line refers to a company's earnings, profit, net income, or earnings per share (EPS). The reference to the bottom line describes the relative location of the net income figure on a company's income statement.



The term "bottom line" is commonly used in reference to any actions that may increase or decrease net earnings or a company's overall profit. A company that is growing its earnings or reducing its costs is said to be improving its bottom line. Most companies aim to improve their bottom lines through two simultaneous methods: increasing revenues (i.e., generate top-line growth) and improving efficiency (or cutting costs).





Key Takeaways

The bottom line refers to a company's net income, which is presented at the bottom of the income statement.Management can increase the bottom line by enacting strategies to increase revenues or decrease expenses.Net income, or the bottom line, can be retained for future use in the business, distributed in the form of dividends, or used to repurchase shares of outstanding stock.The top line refers to gross sales or revenues, which are found on the top line of the income statement.Triple bottom line (TPL) refers to measuring the profitability of a company, along with how socially and environmentally responsible a company is.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding the Bottom Line  

The bottom line refers to the net income reported at the bottom of the income statement. The income statement has a general format and, although there are multiple variations of layouts, all of them result in net income at the end of this financial statement.



The income statement begins with a company's main business activity's sale or service revenues at the top of the report. Other sources of revenue, such as interest or investment income, are listed next. The following section reports expenses, which may be grouped and reported differently depending on the industry and company preferences. At the bottom of the income statement, the total revenue minus total expenses leaves the net income for the accounting period that is available for company retention or dividend distribution.



Management can enact strategies to increase the bottom line. Increases to top-line revenues can increase the bottom line. This may be done by increasing production, lowering sales returns through product improvement, expanding product lines, or increasing product prices. Other income such as investment income, interest income, rental or co-location fees collected, and the sale of property or equipment also increase the bottom line.





$88.21 billion

The net income of the most profitable company in the world, Saudi Aramco.﻿﻿



A company can also increase its bottom line through the reduction of expenses. In relation to goods and products, items can be produced using cheaper raw materials or by using more efficient methods. Decreasing wages and benefits, operating out of less expensive facilities, and limiting the cost of capital are ways to decrease expenses to increase the bottom line.


   How the Bottom Line Is Used  

The bottom line, or net income, of a company, does not carry over from one accounting period to the next on the income statement. Accounting entries are performed to close all temporary accounts, including all revenue and expense accounts, at the end of the period. Upon the closing of these accounts, the net income is transferred into retained earnings, which appear on the balance sheet.



From here, a company may elect to use net income in several different ways. The bottom line can be used to issue payments to stockholders as an incentive to maintain ownership; this payment is called a dividend. Alternatively, the bottom line can be used to repurchase stock and retire equity. A company may simply keep all earnings reported on the bottom line to utilize in product development, location expansion, or other means of improving the business.


   Bottom Line vs. Top Line  

Bottom line refers to a company's net income found at the bottom of its income statement. Net income is derived from deducting expenses (and COGS, if applicable) from revenues. The bottom line shows how profitable a business is and how well it controls expenses.



The top line, also found on the income statement, is a component of net income. It refers to the gross revenues generated by a business within a certain period. As the name suggests, the top line refers to the top line item of an income statement. Bottom line results can give insight on whether there are issues with the top line, or revenues.



Increases in the top line indicate an increase in sales or revenues, whereas increases in the bottom line could indicate an increase in sales, a decrease in expenses, or both. An increased top line indicates that more products and services were sold in the reported period. However, it does not necessarily correspond to a higher net profit or income. If the top line increases yet the bottom line decreases, attention should be given to expenses and other deductions from revenues.


   Example of Bottom Line  

Cigna, a publicly-traded health insurance company, reported its bottom line for the year ending December 31, 2020, as $8.49 million, a 65.8% increase from the previous year.



It recorded total revenues as $160.40 million and total benefits and expenses as $152.25 million, resulting in an income from operations of $8.15 million. From the income from operations, gains and other income totaling $4.35 million were added, and costs and losses of $1.64 million were deducted, resulting in an income before taxes of $10.87 million. Taxes of $2.38 were deducted, leaving a bottom line of $8.49 million.


   Special Considerations  

In addition to analyzing a company's bottom line for profitability, there is a push to view the company holistically by measuring its impact on society and the environment. Hence was born the concept of the triple bottom line (TPL), which focuses on profit, people, and the planet.



The triple bottom line theory suggests that qualitative factors should be incorporated in measuring the success of an organization. In accordance with this theory, a company's commitment to being socially and environmentally responsible is used along with profitability to evaluate performance.



There are no defined measurements prescribed, and there is no consensus among companies on how to measure success in these areas. So, it remains largely subjective. Some suggest converting social capital and environmental protections to monetary figures, whereas some suggest that TBL be measured according to an index.



Despite how it's measured, it warrants attention as more focus is given to how we protect and sustain the environment and contribute to society.


   Bottom Line FAQs  
  What Is the Bottom Line in Business?  

The bottom line in business refers to a business's net income, net earnings, or net profit. It is referred to as the bottom line as it is found at the bottom of the net income financial statement. The bottom line is calculated by deducting expenses from revenues.


  What Is Another Word for Bottom Line?  

Another word for bottom line is net income, which is found on the bottom line of a company's net income statement. Other words used to describe the bottom line are net earnings and net profit.


  How Do You Calculate the Bottom Line?  

The bottom line is calculated by deducting expenses from gross revenues or sales. Gross sales or revenues generally include the total sales and other income for a certain period. Examples of commonly used expenses include depreciation expenses, operating expenses, and interest expenses from the same accounting period.


  Why Is the Bottom Line Important?  

The bottom line tells a company how profitable it was during a period and how much it has available for dividends and retained earnings. What's retained can be used to pay off debts, fund projects, or reinvest in the company.


   The Bottom Line  

The bottom line refers to the net income of a company for a certain period. It is recorded on the bottom line of the net income financial statement. The bottom line is calculated by subtracting expenses from gross sales or revenues, and it shows how profitable the business was during a specific accounting period. Business management can employ different tactics, such as reducing expenses or focusing on marketing efforts to generate more sales, to increase the bottom line. In contrast, the top line refers to the gross sales or revenues of a company during an accounting period. The top line, or gross revenues, is used to calculate the bottom line. Alternatively, the concept of triple bottom line suggests that companies should focus on the profitability of their company, as well as their commitment to being socially and environmentally responsible.
What Is Bottom-Up Investing?  

Bottom-up investing is an investment approach that focuses on analyzing individual stocks and de-emphasizes the significance of macroeconomic and market cycles. In other words, bottom-up investing typically involves focusing on a specific company's fundamentals, such as revenue or earnings, versus the industry or the overall economy. The bottom-up investing approach assumes individual companies can perform well even in an industry that is underperforming, at least on a relative basis.



Bottom-up investing forces investors to consider microeconomic factors, including a company's overall financial health, financial statements, the products and services offered, supply, and demand.



For example, a company's unique marketing strategy or organizational structure may be a leading indicator that causes a bottom-up investor to invest. Alternatively, accounting irregularities on a particular company's financial statements may indicate problems for a firm in an otherwise booming industry sector.





Key Takeaways

Bottom-up investing is an investment approach that focuses on analyzing individual stocks and de-emphasizes the significance of macroeconomic and market cycles.Bottom-up investors focus on a specific company and its fundamentals, whereas top-down investors focus on the industry and economy.The bottom-up approach assumes individual companies can do well even in an underperforming industry.


   How Bottom-Up Investing Works  

The bottom-up approach is the opposite of top-down investing, which is a strategy that first considers macroeconomic factors when making an investment decision. Top-down investors instead look at the broad performance of the economy and then seek industries that are performing well, investing in the best opportunities within that industry. Conversely, making sound decisions based on a bottom-up investing strategy entails picking a company and giving it a thorough review before investing. This strategy includes becoming familiar with the company's public research reports.



Most of the time, bottom-up investing does not stop at the individual firm level, although that is where analysis begins and the most weight is given. The industry group, economic sector, market, and macroeconomic factors are eventually brought into the overall analysis. However, the investment research process begins at the bottom and works its way up in scale.



Bottom-up investors usually employ long-term, buy-and-hold strategies that rely strongly on fundamental analysis. This is because a bottom-up approach to investing gives an investor a deep understanding of a single company and its stock, providing insight into an investment's long-term growth potential. On the other hand, top-down investors can be more opportunistic in their investment strategy and may seek to enter and exit positions quickly to make profits off short-term market movements.



Bottom-up investors can be most successful when they invest in a company they actively use and know about from the ground level. Companies such as Meta (formerly Facebook), Google, and Tesla are all excellent examples of this strategy since each has a well-known consumer product that can be used every day. The bottom-up perspective involves understanding a company's value from the perspective of relevance to consumers in the real world.


   Example of a Bottom-Up Approach  

Meta (META) is a good potential candidate for a bottom-up approach because investors intuitively understand its products and services well. Once a candidate such as Meta is identified as a "good" company, an investor conducts a deep dive into its management and organizational structure, financial statements, marketing efforts, and price per share. This would include calculating financial ratios for the company, analyzing how those figures have changed over time, and projecting future growth.



Next, the analyst takes a step up from the individual firm and compares Meta's financials with that of its competitors and industry peers in the social media and internet industry. Doing so can show if Meta stands apart from its peers or if it shows anomalies that others do not have. The next step up is to compare Meta with the larger scope of technology companies on a relative basis. After that, general market conditions are taken into consideration, such as whether Meta's P/E ratio is in line with the S&P 500, or whether the stock market is in a general bull market. Finally, macroeconomic data is included in the decision-making, looking at trends in unemployment, inflation, interest rates, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, and so on.



Once all these factors are built into an investor's decision, starting from the bottom up, then a decision can be made to make a trade.







Who Benefits From Bottom-Up Investing?


   Bottom-Up vs. Top-Down Investing  

As we've seen, bottom-up investing starts with an individual company's financials and then adds increasingly more macro layers of analysis. By contrast, a top-down investor will first examine various macro-economic factors to see how these factors may affect the overall market, and therefore the stock they are interested in investing in. They will analyze gross domestic product (GDP), the lowering or raising of interest rates, inflation, and the price of commodities to see where the stock market may be headed. They will also look at the performance of the overall sector or industry.



These investors believe that if the sector is doing well, the stocks they are examining should also do well and bring in returns. These investors may look at how outside factors such as rising oil or commodity prices or changes in interest rates will affect certain sectors over others, and therefore the companies in these sectors.



For example, suppose the price of a commodity such as oil goes up and the company they are considering investing in uses large quantities of oil to make their product. In that case, the investor will consider how strong an effect the rise in oil prices will have on the company's profits. So their approach starts very broad, looking at the macroeconomy, then at the sector, and then at the stocks themselves. Top-down investors might also choose to invest in one country or region if its economy is doing well. For instance, if European stocks are faltering, the investor will stay out of Europe and may instead pour money into Asian stocks if that region is showing fast growth. 



Bottom-up investors will research a company's fundamentals to decide whether or not to invest in it. On the other hand, top-down investors consider the broader market and economic conditions when choosing stocks for their portfolio.
What Is a Bounced Check?  

A bounced check is slang for a check that cannot be processed because the account holder has non-sufficient funds (NSF) available for use. Banks return, or “bounce,” these checks, also known as rubber checks, rather than honor them, and banks charge the check writers NSF fees.



Passing bad checks can be illegal, and the crime can range from a misdemeanor to a felony, depending on the amount of the check and whether the activity involved crossing state lines.





Key Takeaways

A bounced check occurs when the writer of the check has insufficient funds available to fulfill the payment amount on the check to the payee.When a check bounces, it is not honored by the depositor’s bank and may result in overdraft fees and banking restrictions.Additional penalties for bouncing checks may include negative credit score marks, refusal of merchants to accept your checks, and potentially legal trouble.Banks often offer overdraft protection to prevent inadvertent check bouncing.


   Understanding a Bounced Check  

Many times, bad checks are written inadvertently by people who simply are unaware that their bank balances are too low. To avoid bouncing checks, some consumers use overdraft protection or attach a line of credit to their checking accounts.



A bounced check may result in overdraft fees, restrictions on writing additional checks, and negative impacts to your credit score. Writing too many bounced checks may also prevent you from paying merchants by check in the future. Many merchants use a verification system called TeleCheck to help them determine if a customer’s check is good. If this system connects the check you’ve just presented for payment to a history of unpaid checks, the merchant will decline your check and ask you for a different form of payment.


   Are There Fees for Bounced Checks?  

When there are insufficient funds in an account, and a bank decides to bounce a check, it charges the account holder an NSF fee. If the bank accepts the check, but it makes the account negative, the bank charges an overdraft fee. If the account stays negative, the bank may charge an extended overdraft fee.



Different banks charge different fees for bounced checks and overdrafts, but as of 2022, the average overdraft fee was $29.80. Banks usually assess this fee on drafts worth $24, and these drafts include checks as well as electronic payments and some debit card transactions.


   What Happens When a Check Bounces?  

Bank fees are just one part of bouncing a check. In many cases, the payee also assesses a charge. For example, if someone writes a check to the grocery store and the check bounces, the grocery store may reserve the right to redeposit the check along with requiring the writer to pay them a bounced-check fee.



In other cases, if a check bounces, the payee reports the issue to debit bureaus such as ChexSystems, which collects financial data on savings and checking accounts. Negative reports with organizations like ChexSystems can make it hard for consumers to open checking and savings accounts in the future. In some cases, businesses collect a list of customers who have bounced checks and ban them from writing checks at that facility again.


   How to Avoid Bounced Checks  

Consumers can reduce the number of bounced checks they write by tracking their bank balances more carefully, by using an ironclad system of recording every single debit and deposit on a check register as soon as it occurs, or by keeping close tabs on their checking account by using online banking.



Consumers can also fund a savings account and link it to their checking account to cover overdrafts. Alternatively, consumers may opt to write fewer checks or use cash, debit cards, and immediate online payments such as mobile wallets, PayPal, or the like for discretionary spending.




How serious is a bounced check?
If you write a check for an amount that you had insufficient funds to cover, your bank will most likely charge you a non-sufficient funds (NSF) fee as well as potentially an overdraft fee. The business to which you wrote the bounced check may also levy a charge against you for the lack of payment. Other consequences of a bounced check include businesses refusing to accept your checks, a reduction of your credit score, and possibly even legal trouble.




How long does it take for a check to bounce?
Generally speaking, a check for an amount greater than $225 won’t clear until two or more business days after it’s deposited at a bank. In the same vein, it typically takes at least two business days for a bad check to bounce.




Will my bank notify me if a check bounces?
Banks aren’t required to notify an account holder when a check they signed bounces due to non-sufficient funds. However, some banks may offer options for customers to enroll in/sign up for in order to be notified of overdrafts.


   The Bottom Line  

From costly fees to hampering your ability to open new checking and savings accounts, bounced checks can have serious consequences. Fortunately, through preparation and diligence, they can be avoided. If you’re concerned about accidentally writing a bad check, consider signing up for overdraft protection through your bank and/or linking a savings account to your checking account.
What are Boundary Conditions?  

Boundary conditions are the maximum and minimum values used to indicate where the price of an option must lie. Boundary conditions are used to estimate what an option may be priced at, but the actual price of the option may be higher or lower than what is set as the boundary condition.



For all options contracts, the minimum boundary value is always zero, since options cannot be priced at negative money. Meanwhile, maximum boundary values will differ depending on the whether the option is a call or put, and if it is an American option or European option.





Key Takeaways

Boundary conditions were used to set minimum and maximum possible values for call and put options prior to the introduction of binomial tree and Black-Scholes pricing models.Boundary conditions change according to whether the option is American or European, since American options can be exercised prior to expiry.The absolute minimum value for an option is zero, since an option cannot be sold for a negative amount of money.The maximum value in a boundary condition is set to the current value of the underlying asset.


   Understanding Boundary Conditions  

Before the introduction of binomial tree pricing models and the Black-Scholes model, investors and traders relied heavily on boundary conditions to set the minimum and maximum possible values for the call and put options that they were pricing. These boundary conditions change according to whether the option is American or European, since American options can be exercised early.



This ability to exercise at any point prior to the expiration date affects the way the price is calculated, and American options will trade at a premium relative to equivalent European options by virtue of this feature.


   Minimum and Maximum Boundary Conditions  

The absolute minimum value for an option is zero, since an option cannot be sold for a negative amount of money. The maximum value in a boundary condition is set to the current value of the underlying asset. If the price of the underlying asset is greater than the price indicated in the call option, then the investor would not exercise the option, since exercising the option would result in the investor paying more than the market price. This is the case for both a European call and an American call.



The maximum value of a put option is reached when the underlying asset has no worth, such as in the case of a company's bankruptcy when the underlying security is a stock. For a European put option, the maximum value computed as is the present value of the exercise price. This is because European options cannot be exercised at any point, and instead can only be exercised at expiration at a specified price. The value of an American option must be at least as great as a European option.



While technically the maximum value of an asset could be set at infinity—an asset could increase in value with no ceiling—this is considered impractical. The value of the underlying asset is likely to fall within a reasonable boundary that can be modeled with standard deviations or other stochastic methods.
What Is a Box Spread?  

A box spread, or long box, is an options arbitrage strategy that combines buying a bull call spread with a matching bear put spread. A box spread can be thought of as two vertical spreads that each has the same strike prices and expiration dates.



Box spreads are used for borrowing or lending at implied rates that are more favorable than a trader going to their prime broker, clearing firm, or bank. Because the price of a box at its expiration will always be the distance between the strikes involved (e.g., a 100-pt box might utilize the 25 and 125 strikes and would be worth $100 at expiration), the price paid for today can be thought of as that of a zero-coupon bond. The lower the initial cost of the box, the higher its implied interest rate. This concept is known as a synthetic loan.





Key Takeaways

A box spread is an options arbitrage strategy that combines buying a bull call spread with a matching bear put spread.A box spread's ultimate payoff will always be the difference between the two strike prices.The longer the time to expiration, the lower the market price of the box spread today.The cost to implement a box spread—specifically, the commissions charged—can be a significant factor in its potential profitability.Traders use box spreads to synthetically borrow or lend for cash management purposes.


   Understanding a Box Spread  

A box spread is optimally used when the spreads themselves are underpriced with respect to their expiration values. When the trader believes the spreads are overpriced, they may employ a short box, which uses the opposite options pairs, instead. The concept of a box comes to light when one considers the purpose of the two vertical, bull call and bear put, spreads involved.



A bullish vertical spread maximizes its profit when the underlying asset closes at the higher strike price at expiration. The bearish vertical spread maximizes its profit when the underlying asset closes at the lower strike price at expiration. 



By combining both a bull call spread and a bear put spread, the trader eliminates the unknown, namely where the underlying asset closes at expiration. This is so because the payoff is always going to be the difference between the two strike prices at expiration.



If the cost of the spread, after commissions, is less than the difference between the two strike prices, then the trader locks in a riskless profit, making it a delta-neutral strategy. Otherwise, the trader has realized a loss comprised solely of the cost to execute this strategy.






Box spreads effectively establish synthetic loans. Like a zero-coupon bond, they are initially bought at a discount and the price steadily rises over time until expiration where it equals the distance between strikes.


   Box Spread Construction  
















BVE


=


 HSP 


−


 LSP
















MP


=


 BVE 


−


 (NPP


+


 Commissions)
















ML 


=


 NPP 


+


 Commissions
















where:
















BVE


=


 Box value at expiration
















HSP


=


 Higher strike price
















LSP


=


 Lower strike price
















MP


=


 Max profit
















NPP


=


 Net premium paid
















ML


=


 Max Loss







\begin{aligned} &\text{BVE}=\text{ HSP }-\text{ LSP}\\ &\text{MP}=\text{ BVE }-\text{ (NPP} + \text{ Commissions)}\\ &\text{ML }= \text{ NPP }+ \text{ Commissions}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{BVE}=\text{ Box value at expiration}\\ &\text{HSP}=\text{ Higher strike price}\\ &\text{LSP}=\text{ Lower strike price}\\ &\text{MP}=\text{ Max profit}\\ &\text{NPP}=\text{ Net premium paid}\\ &\text{ML}=\text{ Max Loss} \end{aligned}


​BVE= HSP − LSPMP= BVE − (NPP+ Commissions)ML = NPP + Commissionswhere:BVE= Box value at expirationHSP= Higher strike priceLSP= Lower strike priceMP= Max profitNPP= Net premium paidML= Max Loss​



To construct a box spread, a trader buys an in-the-money (ITM) call, sells an out-of-the-money(OTM) call, buys an ITM put, and sells an OTM put. In other words, buy an ITM call and put and then sell an OTM call and put.



Given that there are four options in this combination, the cost to implement this strategy—specifically, the commissions charged—can be a significant factor in its potential profitability. Complex option strategies, such as these, are sometimes referred to as alligator spreads.






There will be times when the box costs more than the spread between the strikes. Should this be the case, the long box would not work but a short box might. This strategy reverses the plan, selling the ITM options and buying the OTM options.


   Box Spread Example  

Company A stock trades for $51.00. Each options contract in the four legs of the box controls 100 shares of stock. The plan is to:



Buy the 49 call for 3.29 (ITM) for $329 debit per options contract
Sell the 53 call for 1.23 (OTM) for $123 credit
Buy the 53 put for 2.69 (ITM) for $269 debit
Sell the 49 put for 0.97 (OTM) for $97 credit



The total cost of the trade before commissions would be $329 - $123 + $269 - $97 = $378. The spread between the strike prices is 53 - 49 = 4. Multiply by 100 shares per contract = $400 for the box spread.



In this case, the trade can lock in a profit of $22 before commissions. The commission cost for all four legs of the deal must be less than $22 to make this profitable. That is a razor-thin margin, and this is only when the net cost of the box is less than the expiration value of the spreads, or the difference between the strikes.


   Hidden Risks in Box Spreads  

While box spreads are commonly used for cash management and are seen as a way to arbitrage interest rates with low risk, there are some hidden risks. The first is that interest rates may move strongly against you, causing losses like they would on any other fixed-income investments that are sensitive to rates.



A second potential danger, which is perhaps less obvious, is the risk of early exercise. American style options, such as those options listed on most U.S. stocks may be exercised early (i.e., before expiration), and so it is possible that a short option that becomes deep in-the-money can be assigned. In the normal construction of a box, this is unlikely, since you would own the deep call and put, but the stock price can move significantly and then find yourself in a situation where you might be assigned.



This risk increases for short boxes written on single stock options, as was the infamous case of a Robinhood trader who lost more than 2,000% on a short box when the deep puts that were sold were subsequently assigned, causing Robinhood to exercise the long calls in an effort to come up with the shares needed to satisfy the assignment. This debacle was posted online including on various subreddits, where it has become a cautionary tale (especially after said trader boasted that it was a virtually riskless strategy).



The lesson here is to avoid short boxes, or to only write short boxes on indexes (or similar) that instead use European options, which do not allow for early exercise.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  When should one use a box strategy?  

A box strategy is best-suited for taking advantage of more favorable implied interest rates than can be obtained through usual credit channels (e.g., a bank). It is therefore most often used for purposes of cash management.


  Are box spreads risk-free?  

A long box is, in theory, a low-risk strategy that is sensitive primarily to interest rates. A long box will always expire at a value worth the distance between the two strike prices utilized. A short box, however, may be subject to early assignment risk when using American options.


  What is a short box spread?  

A short box, in contrast to a standard long box, involves selling deep ITM calls and puts and buying OTM ones. This would be done if the price of the box is trading at higher than the distance between strikes (which can be caused for several reasons, including a low interest rate environment or pending dividend payments for single stock options).
What Is Brain Drain?  

Brain drain is a slang term that indicates a substantial emigration or migration of individuals. A brain drain can result from turmoil within a nation, the existence of favorable professional opportunities in other countries, or a desire to seek a higher standard of living. In addition to occurring geographically, brain drain may also occur at the organizational or industrial levels when workers perceive better pay, benefits, or upward mobility within another company or industry.





Key Takeaways

Brain drain is a slang term indicating substantial emigration or migration of individuals.Brain drain can result from political turmoil or the existence of more favorable professional opportunities elsewhere.It causes countries, industries, and organizations to lose a core portion of valuable individualsSome of the consequences of brain drain include the loss of tax revenue. One of the best ways to reduce brain drain is to boost government investment in the local economy.


   Understanding Brain Drain  

As noted above, brain drain is the movement of people from one area to another. Brain drain often occurs between countries and cities where they can find better opportunities. They may move to look for work or a better standard of living. Brain drain can also refer to the movement of professionals between corporations and/or industries for better pay or opportunities.



Brain drain causes countries, industries, and organizations to lose a core portion of valuable individuals. The term is often used to describe the departure of certain professionals, including groups of doctors, health care workers, scientists, engineers, or financial professionals. When these people leave, the places they leave are harmed in two main ways:



Expertise is lost with each emigrant, diminishing the supply of that profession.
The (country's) economy is harmed because each professional represents surplus spending units.



Professionals often earn large salaries, so their departure reduces consumer spending in that region or the country overall.


   Geographic, Organizational, and Industrial Brain Drain  

Brain drain can occur on several levels: geographic, organizational, and industrial brain drain.


  Geographic Brain Drain  

Geographic brain drain happens when talented professionals flee one country or region and end up moving to a country that they feel gives them better and more opportunities.



Several common causes precipitate brain drain on the geographic level including political instability, poor quality of life, limited access to health care, and a shortage of economic opportunity. These factors prompt skilled and talented workers to leave source countries for places that offer better opportunities.


  Organizational and Industrial Brain Drain  

Organizational brain drain involves the mass exodus of talented workers from a company, often because they sense instability, a lack of opportunity within the company, or they may feel that they can realize their career goals more easily at another company. Industrial brain drain happens when skilled workers exit not only a company but an entire industry.



These two forms of brain drain are usually a byproduct of a rapidly evolving economic landscape in which companies and industries unable to keep up with technological and societal changes lose their best workers to those that can.


   Causes of Brain Drain  

So what causes brain drain? As noted above, there are several underlying factors that lead to this phenomenon. They can vary, though, based on the type of brain drain.



Some of the main reasons why people choose to leave their home countries/regions include:



Economic opportunities, including new and better jobs, higher standards of living, access to housing and health carePolitical strife and instabilityPersecution based on religion, gender, or sexuality



While most brain drain is geographic, there is some brain drain that occurs as a result of situational factors. For instance, skilled workers may leave companies and industries when machines and technology replace human labor.






Brain drain is also known as a human capital flight,


   Effects of Brain Drain  

Brain drain can have major consequences. The effects are felt not only in the area where the brain drain occurs but also where the brain gain (where individuals move to) takes place. And it can often have a chain reaction.



Areas affected by brain drain end up with a dearth of human capital. Professionals who go elsewhere end up leaving a large hole to fill—one that isn't always easy to fill. Consider medical professionals in developing nations who move to parts of the developed world for better opportunities. There may not be enough (qualified) people to replace them when they leave, which affects the quality of health care for those left behind.



Another effect on areas that experience brain drain is the loss of revenue. Governments rely on income taxes to fund their social programs and infrastructure projects. A mass exodus leads to a drop in tax receipts which can stunt economic growth and development.



Areas that see brain gain are also impacted. Some of these factors include overcrowding (especially in major metropolitan areas where more opportunities are available). More people in one area puts a strain on resources, which can lead to higher prices and taxes.


   Measures to Reduce Brain Drain  

While there isn't an easy fix for brain drain, there are some things that business and government leaders can do to reduce or minimize it. These include:



Increasing investments into certain areas of the economy
Offering competitive wages
Paving the way for legal and social reform
Improving the quality of resources, such as housing and health care
Providing affordable housing solutions


   Examples of Brain Drain  
  Ukraine Brain Drain  

War and conflict are big catalysts for brain drain. This was evident following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Studies conducted by the European Parliament indicate a massive displacement of the country's population across the European Union (EU). One of the main areas the study examined was the movement of students. The number of students leaving Ukraine doubled from 25,000 to 50,000 between 2007 and 2014. That number jumped to about 78,000 by 2019. The majority of these students were enrolled in post-secondary institutions in Poland.



Some professionals leaving Ukraine are having a tough time finding work in their fields in other countries because of a lack of available work or transferrable skills. As such, some are choosing to take on lower-paying jobs to find a sense of security and safety.



But it isn't just Ukraine that's experiencing a brain drain. In fact, Russia is experiencing a flight of human capital, too. Economic sanctions placed on the country by the U.S., the United Kingdom, and Canada, are having a profound impact on Russian citizens. The federal government also has laws in place punishing citizens who support Ukraine. It's estimated that as many as 200,000 Russians left the country.


  Puerto Rico Brain Drain  

Brain drain was a significant consequence of the ongoing Puerto Rican debt crisis as of 2019. This was particularly evident in the exodus of skilled medical professionals, which hit the island hard. While almost half of Puerto Rico's residents receive Medicare or Medicaid, the island receives significantly fewer federal funds to pay for these programs than similarly sized states on the mainland, such as Mississippi.



This lack of funding combined with the island's dire financial situation precludes its ability to offer competitive compensation to doctors, nurses, and other medical staff. As a result, such professionals were reported to be leaving the island en masse for more lucrative opportunities on the mainland.



This form of brain drain was also exacerbated by Hurricane Maria, which hit the island in September 2017, creating even more incentives for emigration.




What Does Brain Drain Mean?
Brain drain is a slang term that alludes to the loss of human capital from one area to another or from one industry to another. Brain drain usually happens when skilled individuals and professionals leave the home countries (in most cases, developing nations) and go elsewhere to take advantage of better opportunities. It also occurs when individuals leave one area of the workforce and go to another for some of the same reasons.




How Does Economic Growth Help Fight Brain Drain?
Brain drain occurs when there is a lack of opportunity in a certain area. For instance, professionals living in a developing nation may leave in search of better opportunities in parts of the developed world. Making economic investments to boost growth often provides incentives for people to stay, as it means access to better (and more) resources, personal economic prosperity, and the potential for a higher standard of living.




What Impact Does Brain Drain Have on Developing Nations?
Brain drain or the exodus of human capital often has a big impact on developing nations. It often leaves a hole that is hard to fill since there may not be as many people with similar skills to fill that void. It also leads to a loss in tax revenue, which can lead to higher taxation to make up for the shortfall. Citizens may not be able to access quality resources, such as education and health care, which also affects their quality of life.


   The Bottom Line  

Human capital is a vital part of the economy. But when conditions get tough, these individuals may look elsewhere for better jobs, higher pay, and an improved standard of living. A mass exodus of people can lead to what's called brain drain. When human capital is depleted from a certain area, it can have lasting effects on the local economy.
What Is Branch Accounting?  

Branch accounting is a bookkeeping system in which separate accounts are maintained for each branch or operating location of an organization. Typically found in geographically dispersed corporations, multinationals, and chain operators, it allows for greater transparency in the transactions, cash flows, and overall financial position and performance of each branch.



Branch accounts can also refer to records individually produced to show the performance of different locations, with the accounting records actually maintained at the corporate headquarters. However, branch accounting usually refers to branches keeping their own books and later sending them into the head office to be combined with those of other units.





Key Takeaways

Branch accounting is a bookkeeping system in which separate accounts are kept for each branch or operating location of an organization.Technically, the branch account is a temporary or nominal ledger account, lasting for a designated accounting period.Branch accounting provides better accountability and control since profitability and efficiency can be closely tracked for each location.Branch accounting has a long history, going back to the Venetian banks of the 14th century.


   How Branch Accounting Works  

In branch accounting, each branch (defined as a geographically separate operating unit) is treated as an individual profit or cost center. Its branch has its own account. In that account, it records such items as inventory, accounts receivable, wages, equipment, expenses such as rent and insurance, and petty cash.



Like any double-entry bookkeeping system, the ledger keeps a tally of assets and liabilities, debits and credits, and ultimately, profits and losses for a set period.



Technically speaking, in bookkeeping terms, the branch account is a temporary or nominal ledger account. It lasts for a designated accounting period. At the period's end, the branch tallies up its figures and arrives at ending balances, which are then transferred to the appropriate head office or head department accounts. The branch account is left with a zero balance until the accounting process begins all over again with the next accounting period or cycle.


   Branch Accounting Methods  

There are several different methods for keeping branch accounts, depending on the nature and complexity of the business and the operational autonomy of the branch. The most common include:



Debtor systemIncome statement systemStock and debtor systemFinal accounts system


   Where Branch Accounting Applies  

Branch accounting can also be used for a company's operating divisions, which usually have more autonomy than branches, as long as the division is not set up legally as a subsidiary company. A branch is not a separate legal entity, although it can (somewhat confusingly) be referred to as an "independent branch" because it keeps its own accounting books.



However, branch accounting is not the same as departmental accounting. Departments may have their own accounts, but they usually operate from the same physical location. A branch, by its nature, is a geographically separate entity.






Branch accounting is a common practice for businesses that operate in different geographic locations.


   History of Branch Accounting  

Though it seems synonymous with contemporary chain stores and franchise operations, branch accounting actually goes back a long way. Venetian banks maintained a form of it as early as the 14th century. The ledgers of a firm of Venetian merchants, dating from around 1410, also show a form of it to try to account for overseas and home accounts. Luca Pacioli's Summa de Arithmetica (1494), the first accounting textbook, devotes a chapter to it.



By the 17th century, branch accounting was being widely used by German counting-houses and other businesses. Moravian settlements throughout the thirteen original colonies used it for their books in the mid-1700s.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Branch Accounting  

The primary advantages (and often, the objectives) of branch accounting are better accountability and control since the profitability and efficiency of different locations can be closely tracked.



On the downside, branch accounting may involve added expenses for an organization in terms of manpower, working hours, and infrastructure. A separate account coding structure must be maintained for each operating unit. It may be necessary to appoint branch accountants to ensure accurate financial reporting and compliance with head office procedures and processes.
What Is Branch Banking?  

Branch banking is the operation of storefront locations away from the institution's home office for the convenience of customers.



Since the 1980s, branch banking in the U.S. has gone through significant changes in response to a more competitive and consolidated financial services market. One of the most significant changes is that, since 1999, banks have been permitted to sell investments and insurance products–as well as banking services–under the same roof.





Key Takeaways

Branch banking refers to the operation of storefront spinoffs that offer the same key services as the institution's flagship home office.Since the 1980s, branch banking has undergone significant changes in response to a more competitive national market, deregulation of financial services, and the growth of internet banking.If you use a branch bank today, it is most likely to be one of the "big four" banks: JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America, Wells Fargo, or Citibank.


   History and Current Landscape of Branch Banking  

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 authorized well-capitalized banks to acquire branch offices–or open new ones–anywhere in the United States, including outside their home states. At that time, most states had already passed laws enabling interstate branching.



Then, in 1999, Congress repealed laws that forced banks to keep their investment services separate from their banking services. Those two actions combined led to the current proliferation of branch offices that are dotted around the U.S.



After the financial crisis of 2008-2009, the banking industry went through a consolidation phase. The branch bank, for most Americans, now means one of the "big four" banks: JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America, Wells Fargo, or Citibank.



More recent innovations, such as Internet banking services and mobile banking apps, have dramatically changed the banking landscape.



According to a survey conducted by Morning Consult on behalf of the American Bankers Association, mobile and online banking increased considerably after the COVID-19 pandemic. As of 2021, 44% of bank consumers turn to mobile apps (compared to 33% before the pandemic), and 26% use a computer or laptop to manage their accounts (compared to 24% before the pandemic).



In addition, the COVID-19 crisis increased the rate of bank branch closures. In 2020, just under 3,700 bank branches shut their doors. However, banks are constrained from closing some branches by the terms of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, which requires banks to make an effort to provide services to low- and moderate-income neighborhoods.


   Advantages of Branch Banking  

Branch banking allows a financial institution to expand its services outside of its home location and into smaller storefronts that function as extensions of its greater operations. For some institutions, this can be a cost-saving method; it allows smaller offices to provide key services while larger locations may have additional offerings.



For customers, branch banking offers the added value of interacting with someone in person, a richer experience and connection that can't be replicated by digital channels.



Although many customers turn to digital channels for simple banking tasks (like checking an account's balance or making a transfer), they are visiting branches for those services that can't be provided online, like withdrawing cash or using a safety deposit box. Other advantages of branch banking include the ability to complete complex transactions, get information on specialized financial products, or receive financial advice.






Branch banking networks have evolved into multi-state financial service networks that allow depositors to access their accounts from any banking office.


   Unit Banking vs. Branch Banking  

Unit banking refers to a single, usually very small bank that provides financial services to its local community. Typically, a unit bank is independent and operates without any connecting banks or branches in the area.



However, not all unit banks are independent. Even if they do not share a name with a larger banking entity. There are some banks that retain a familiar name, even though they are owned by a larger holding company.




What Is the Difference Between Branch Banking and Chain Banking?
Chain banking is a form of bank governance in which individuals or an entity takes control of at least three banks that are independently chartered. It differs from branch banking because chain banks are separately-owned and not part of the same entity.




What Is a Banking Desert?
A banking desert is a census tract or neighborhood with no bank branches in it or within 10 miles of its center.




What Is Retail Banking?
Retail banking provides financial services to individual consumers rather than large institutions. It's also known as consumer banking or personal banking. The services provided by retail banking include savings and checking accounts, debit or credit cards, personal loans, mortgages, and certificates of deposit, among others.


   The Bottom Line  

Branch banking makes banking more convenient and accessible to customers. Each branch provides the same services as the main office. Although online banking is growing in popularity and is more convenient for most people, branch banking offers a human connection that can't be replicated online, as well as the ability to withdraw cash, access to financial advice, and a wider variety of products and services.
What Is a Branch Manager?  

The term branch manager refers to an executive who is in charge of a particular location or branch office of a bank or other financial services company. Branch managers are typically responsible for all of the functions of that branch office, including hiring employees, overseeing the approval of loans and lines of credit (LOCs), marketing, building a rapport with the community to attract business, assisting with customer relations, and ensuring that the branch meets its goals and objectives in a timely manner.





Key Takeaways

A branch manager is an employee who oversees the operations of a branch of a bank or financial institution.The branch manager's responsibilities include managing resources and staff, developing and attaining sales goals, delivering customer service, and growing the location's revenues.Branch managers oversee the performance of other employees who work in their branches.Employers seek managers with experience, proven success, and leadership skills.Branch managers typically have undergraduate degrees in finance, accounting, or related fields of study.


   Understanding Branch Managers  

A financial institution's executives place great confidence in the company's branch managers, expecting them to run their locations as their own businesses. A branch manager's job description includes assuming responsibility for virtually all functions of their branch, including growing that location's customer base and elevating the community's perception of the company's brand.



Branch managers are also responsible for delegating tasks to skilled workers and for their successes and failures. In fact, the branch manager is responsible for the success or failure of the branch they manage.



Excellent multitasking and organization skills are necessary to accomplish tasks in a timely and efficient manner, not only for the branch manager but also for the people they manage. The branch manager also oversees the performance of other employees, such as bank tellers, back-office workers, and loan officers.





Other Meanings

Although the term branch manager commonly refers to the leader of a bank location, it can also refer to an individual responsible for the office of any type of corporation.


   Special Considerations  

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is the go-to source for information about the labor market and the U.S. economy as a whole. Its Occupational Outlook Handbook provides details about various careers, including job descriptions, outlook, and pay scales.



Although it doesn't have a distinct category for bank branch managers, it does provide information for financial managers—a category that includes these professionals. According to the BLS handbook, financial managers earned an average annual salary of $134,180 or $64.51 per hour in 2020.



The job outlook for financial managers is faster than average growth when compared to other industries. The BLS predicts this field will grow by 15% between 2019 and 2029. The agency expects that the number of jobs will increase to 108,100 between this 10-year period.


   Requirements for Branch Managers  

Because their responsibilities include developing and maintaining good relationships with customers and employees, branch managers should possess strong sales, people management, and customer service skills. Other attributes required of a branch manager are diligence, strong analytical skills, and the ability to prioritize, multitask, and focus on detail.



Branch managers are expected to be proactive about networking to bring in new business and increase revenue. A new branch manager might join the local chamber of commerce and attend business and networking events, where one often can meet influential community members. For example, a branch manager might meet a local hospital administrator and work out a deal to provide the branch's services to the hospital's employees.


   Branch Manager Qualifications  

Branch managers usually have undergraduate degrees in finance, accounting, or related fields. Some financial institutions may look at a candidate with a bachelor's degree in another discipline as long as they have a master's degree in a finance-related field. In fact, graduate degrees are preferred in many competitive areas where branch managers are in high demand.



Financial institutions hiring for branch manager positions look for candidates with prior financial experience, proven leadership experience, and a track record of increasing the number of a bank's accounts. Banks expect branch managers to be deeply knowledgeable about banking regulations. Once hired, branch managers have the freedom to choose their teams, but they also must be able to ensure their teams' success.




What Does a Branch Manager Do?
Most financial institutions, such as banks, have operations in more than one location, known as branches. A branch manager is any individual that oversees the operations of one specific branch. Areas that a branch manager oversees include managing employees, ensuring sales targets are met, staff training, marketing, and administration.




What Are the Qualifications Needed to Be a Branch Manager?
Branch managers will typically need a bachelor's degree. Management degrees are often helpful in becoming a branch manager. Having an understanding of financial terms and experience in operational management will also help. A potential bank manager candidate will need at least five to seven years of work experience to be considered for such a role and to have developed the appropriate skills for the role. An individual will need good organizational, financial, problem-solving, and team-management skills to be a good branch manager.




How Much Does a Branch Manager Make?
The average annual salary for a branch manager as of 2021 is $62,884. This ranges from $42,000 on the low end to $95,000 on the high end. Salaries will depend on the institution, the location, and the experience of the individual, among other variables.
What Is a Brand?  

To marketing professionals, a brand is a product or a business that has a distinct identity in the perception of consumers. The brand is created through elements of design, packaging, and advertising that, as a whole, distinguish the product from its competitors.



The product contributes to the brand equity of the company that produces it. A successfully-executed brand provides enormous value to a company, giving it a competitive edge over others in the same industry.



As such, many companies seek legal protection for their brands by obtaining trademarks.





Key Takeaways

A successful brand communicates the qualities of a product to the consumer.A product's design, logo, packaging, and advertising message are all coordinated to convey the brand's message to the consumer.Its brands are among a company's most important and valuable assets.Companies can protect their brands by registering trademarks to protect elements of their brands.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding Brands  

A brand is an intangible asset made up of many elements. Together these elements help consumers identify a product and give them reasons to buy it rather than its competitors.



The brand may convey a message that the product is more effective, easier to use, better tasting, cheaper, classier, hipper, or more environmentally sound than its competitors.



This is most challenging, of course, when the product is essentially identical to cheaper competitors. Advil, for example, is a brand name for ibuprofen. Through effective advertising and packaging, its parent company attempts to convince consumers that Advil's ibuprofen is a better choice than the cheaper generic versions of ibuprofen that sit next to it on pharmacy shelves.


  Elements of a Brand  

A product's logos and slogans are elements of its brand and are designed to support a product's brand identity.



Allstate's slogan, "You're in good hands with Allstate," was introduced in the 1950s. It suggests that its insurance customers can count on it being reliable and competent when they need its help. Its commercials reinforce the message.



Other slogans are harder to translate but nevertheless become an intrinsic part of a brand's identity. Since the 1930s, the slogan for Kellogg Rice Crispies has been "Snap! Crackle! Pop!" It says that the product adds a pleasing noise to your breakfast but also evokes images of the cheery elves that serve as the cereal's commercial spokesmen.


  Standing Out From the Competition  

Successful marketing keeps a company's brand front and center in people's minds, at least at the moment of decision-making. That's why the brand is considered to be one of a company's most valuable and important assets. It carries tremendous monetary value, affecting both the bottom line and, for public companies, shareholder value.



A company can become inseparable from its brand. Coca-Cola the soft drink is synonymous with Coca-Cola itself, even though the company now owns Schweppes, Dr. Pepper, and Hi-C, among hundreds of other brands.



Newer brands face a great deal more urgency in establishing themselves with consumers. Findstack estimates that a product's website has precisely 0.5 milliseconds to convince a consumer to stay or go.





Why Trademark?

Trademarks identify exclusive ownership of a brand and its associated marketing tools. Registering trademarks prevents others from using substantially identical products or services without permission.


   Special Considerations  

In the age of reality television and social media, a person can be a brand.



The Kardashian family members developed brand value after gaining popularity from their long-running reality show. Collectively and as individuals, they have used their name to successfully launch media and modeling careers, spinoff shows, cosmetics, perfumes, and clothing lines.


   History of Brands  

The concept of branding may go as far back as 2000 B.C., when merchants began considering how they could sell their wares more effectively. Merchants in ancient Babylon developed sales pitches to lure in customers. Craftsmen branded or carved symbols on their merchandise to indicate their origin. Tavern owners hung attractive signs outside.



The word "branding" for product marketing might have come into use in the 19th century when Western cattle ranchers started using hot irons to mark their livestock with the ranch's initials or a symbol. Their initial purpose was less marketing than protection from cattle rustlers, but the association stuck.



Branding as mass marketing took off in the 19th century, as sellers of products like flour began thinking about ways to distinguish themselves from their competitors.





Shared Values

Today's consumers buy brands that reflect their values. A total 53% in one survey said that they prefer brands that get involved in at least one social issue that isn't related to the business.


   Types of Brands  

The type of brand used depends on the entity using it. The following are some of the most common forms of brands:



Corporate Brands: Corporate branding is a way for companies to enhance their reputations and distinguish themselves from competitors in their industries. The company's pricing, mission, target market, and values all reflect the corporate brand.
Personal Brands: Social media enabled ordinary people to become influencers. Their financial success depends on their ability to create a brand that attracts an audience that certain advertisers want to reach. Personal brands are built through social media posts, sharing images and videos, and conducting meet-and-greets.
Product Brands: Introducing a new product or supporting an existing product involves creating and maintaining its brand. Branding a product starts with market research and identifying the right target market.


   Creating a Brand  

When a company seeks to define its public image, it first must determine its brand identity, or how it wants to be viewed by the public. A company logo reflects its message, slogan, and product.



The goal is to make the brand memorable and appealing to the consumer, or rather to the consumer that the company is targeting, whether that is hip single people, couples with small children, or affluent retirees.



The company may use a design firm or logo design software to come up with ideas for the visual aspects of a brand, such as its logo. A successful brand accurately portrays the message or feeling the company wants to get across. This results in brand awareness, or the recognition of the brand's existence and what it offers.



Once a brand has created positive sentiment among its target audience, the firm is said to have built brand equity. Some firms with brand equity and very recognizable product brands include Disney, Coca-Cola, Ferrari, Apple, and Nike.



If done right, a brand results in an increase in sales not just for the specific product being sold but for other products sold by the same company. A good brand engenders trust, and, after having a good experience with one product, the consumer is more likely to try another product related to the same brand.



The phenomenon is known as brand loyalty.





Top Global Brands 2022

The top five global brands in 2022 were Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Google. and Samsung, according to a ranking by Interbrand. Microsoft's score was up a big 32% year over year.


   Benefits of Brands  

Creating a brand provides numerous benefits to a corporation or an individual. A company that gets its message across is able to induce and evoke emotion within its customer base. Consumers develop unique relationships with these companies. The companies rely on these customers to help draw in others.



This helps companies build trust and credibility that give them a competitive edge against the competition.



It also helps companies introduce new products and services. Consumers stay loyal to brands they know and trust, and with whom they already have a relationship. That makes them more likely to spend when new products are released, even if they're more expensive.



Apple is a classic example. The company built a hugely loyal customer base that is willing to overlook the higher price tag associated with an iMac, MacBook, iPad, or iPhone because of their loyalty to the brand. Its customers don't hesitate to replace their existing Apple gadgets with new Apple gadgets as the company releases them.




What Does Brand Mean in Marketing?
A brand is a product or service that has a unique and immediately recognizable identity that distinguishes itself from others in its industry. The consumer associates the product name, label, and packaging with particular attributes such as value, quality, or tastefulness.A cough drop is just a cough drop. But when you go to buy a bag of them, you choose Ricola, Luden's, or Beekeeper's Naturals at least in part based on the brand message that you have received.




What Is Brand Equity?
Brand equity is the commercial value of a product's reputation to the company that owns it. A company's price may be determined by adding up the value of its buildings, inventory, and equipment. But its value increases if the company owns one or more brands that have attained a solid reputation with consumers.




Can Great Brands Last Forever?
Some of America's greatest brands have died. They may have failed to keep up with the times. Or the businesses that owned them may have mismanaged them.BobVila.com lists these brands, all of them once household names, that have vanished: Borders, Pan American, F. W. Woolworth, Toys R Us, Blockbuster, Tower Records, Compaq, and Oldsmobile.To be fair, Toys R Us made a comeback in 2022 as a store-within-a-store at some Macy's locations.


   The Bottom Line  

When we hear the word "brand," most of us think of a logo, a slogan, or another identifiable mark. But that's just one part of the definition. The term brand is actually an intangible marketing concept that helps people recognize and identify a product and, at best, reach for it instead of one of its competitors.



Its brands are among the most important and valuable assets that a company owns. They can make or break a company. That's why companies do extensive research before launching a new product. They work to identify the target market for their product. From there, every aspect of its content, design, and marketing is tailored to the brand identity that they want to create for that market.
What Is Brand Awareness?  

Brand awareness is a marketing term for the degree to which consumers recognize a product by its name. Ideally, consumers' awareness of the brand may include positive perceptions of the qualities that distinguish the product from its competition.



Creating brand awareness is a key step in promoting a new product or reviving an older brand.





Key Takeaways

Brand awareness refers to the familiarity of consumers with a particular product or service.A brand awareness campaign seeks to familiarize the public with a new or revised product and differentiate it from the competition.Social media has become an important new tool in brand awareness marketing.


   How Brand Awareness Works  

Products and services that maintain a high level of brand awareness are likely to generate more sales. Consumers confronted with choices are simply more likely to buy a name brand product than an unfamiliar one.



Consider the soft drink industry. Removed from their packaging, many soft drinks are indistinguishable. The giants in the industry, Coca-Cola and Pepsi, rely on brand awareness to make their brands the ones consumers reach for. Over the years, these companies have employed advertising and marketing strategies that have increased brand awareness among consumers, and that has directly translated into higher sales.



This higher rate of brand awareness for dominant brands in a category can serve as an economic moat that prevents competitors from gaining additional market share.


   Special Considerations Regarding Brand Awareness  

As of 2019, Internet users spent approximately 38 minutes per day on Facebook, 26 minutes on Snapchat, and 27 minutes on Instagram.



Not surprisingly, companies are now spending a great deal of energy promoting brand awareness on these platforms. This has led to new forms of promotion in which consumers themselves generate discussions about products and services that they like and use. Targeted ads on Facebook and Instagram account for a large majority of brand awareness tactics used, especially among Millennial and Gen Z audiences.



Inevitably, consumers also share unfavorable experiences, and marketers are adapting to that reality. It has become crucial for a company to respond to negative reviews and offer a solution to the customer's problem, in real-time.



But as consumers view and interact with social media posts and updates, brand awareness will increase. For brand awareness to be most productive, consumers should be able to connect to the company's website seamlessly from the social media platform.


   Other Ways to Create Brand Awareness  

Print media is not the force it once was, but there are still consumers who read newspapers and magazines. Advertisements placed strategically, such as in targeted locations in the appropriate section of a newspaper or in specialized publications, can attract the viewer’s attention and create brand awareness.



For example, a new company that will be trading on the forex (FX) may advertise in a magazine that focuses on global trade and currencies in order to create brand awareness among investors.



Advertising in physical locations such as inside stores is also used to create brand awareness. Impulse purchase products are well-suited for in-store distribution and advertising. A company marketing a new candy bar may distribute the product at a point-of-sale (POS) location to create brand awareness.



Event sponsorship is another effective way to create brand awareness. Charitable events, sporting events, and fundraisers allow for prominent visibility of a company's name and logo.



For example, a health insurance company may distribute complimentary company-branded health packs at a charity marathon. This associates the brand with an act of goodwill and community feeling. Awareness of the brand has increased, and its image has been burnished.
What Is Brand Equity?  

Brand equity refers to a value premium that a company generates from a product with a recognizable name when compared to a generic equivalent. Companies can create brand equity for their products by making them memorable, easily recognizable, and superior in quality and reliability. Mass marketing campaigns also help to create brand equity.



When a company has positive brand equity, customers willingly pay a high price for its products, even though they could get the same thing from a competitor for less. Customers, in effect, pay a price premium to do business with a firm they know and admire. Because the company with brand equity does not incur a higher expense than its competitors to produce the product and bring it to market, the difference in price goes to their margin. The firm's brand equity enables it to make a bigger profit on each sale.





Key Takeaways

Brand equity refers to the value a company gains from its name recognition when compared to a generic equivalent.Brand equity has three basic components: consumer perception, negative or positive effects, and the resulting value.Brand equity has a direct impact on sales volume and a company's profitability because consumers gravitate toward products and services with great reputations.Often, companies in the same industry or sector compete on brand equity.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Elements and Importance of Brand Equity  

Brand equity has a few basic components: consumer perception, negative or positive effects, and the resulting value. Foremost, consumer perception, which includes both knowledge and experience with a brand and its products, builds brand equity. The perception that a consumer segment holds about a brand directly results in either positive or negative effects. If the brand equity is positive, the organization, its products, and its financials can benefit. If the brand equity is negative, the opposite is true.



Finally, these effects can turn into either tangible or intangible value. If the effect is positive, tangible value is realized as increases in revenue or profits. Intangible value is realized in marketing as awareness or goodwill. If the effects are negative, the tangible or intangible value is also negative. For example, if consumers are willing to pay more for a generic product than for a branded one, the brand is said to have negative brand equity. This might happen if a company has a major product recall or causes a widely publicized environmental disaster.






Brand equity is an extension of brand recognition, but more so than recognition, brand equity is the added value in a particular name.


   Effect on Profit Margins  

When customers attach a level of quality or prestige to a brand, they perceive that brand's products as being worth more than products made by competitors, so they are willing to pay more. In effect, the market bears higher prices for brands that have high levels of brand equity. The cost of manufacturing a golf shirt and bringing it to market is not higher, at least to a significant degree, for Lacoste than it is for a less reputable brand.



However, because its customers are willing to pay more, it can charge a higher price for that shirt, with the difference going to profit. Positive brand equity increases profit margin per customer because it allows a company to charge more for a product than competitors, even though it was obtained at the same price.



Brand equity has a direct effect on sales volume because consumers gravitate toward products with great reputations. For example, when Apple releases a new product, customers line up around the block to buy it even though it is usually priced higher than similar products from competitors. One of the primary reasons why Apple's products sell in such large numbers is that the company has amassed a staggering amount of positive brand equity. Because a certain percentage of a company's costs to sell products are fixed, higher sales volumes translate to greater profit margins.



Customer retention is the third area in which brand equity affects profit margins. Returning to the Apple example, most of the company's customers do not own only one Apple product, they own several. Plus, they eagerly anticipate the next one's release. Apple's customer base is fiercely loyal, sometimes bordering on evangelical. Apple enjoys high customer retention, another result of its brand equity. Retaining existing customers increases profit margins by lowering the amount a business has to spend on marketing to achieve the same sales volume. It costs less to retain an existing customer than to acquire a new one.






The concept of brand equity was first introduced in the 1980s by David Aaker, a marketing professor at the University of California, Berkeley.


   Real-World Examples of Brand Equity  

A general example of a situation where brand equity is important is when a company wants to expand its product line. If the brand's equity is positive, the company can increase the likelihood that customers might buy its new product by associating the new product with an existing, successful brand. For example, if Campbell's releases a new soup, the company is likely to keep it under the same brand name rather than inventing a new brand.



The positive associations that customers already have with Campbell's make the new product more enticing than if the soup has an unfamiliar brand name. Below are some other examples of brand equity.


  Tylenol  

Manufactured since 1955 by McNeil (now a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Tylenol is a first-line treatment for mild to moderate pain. EquiTrend studies show that consumers trust Tylenol over generic brands. Tylenol has been able to grow its market with the creations of Tylenol Extra Strength, Tylenol Cold & Flu, Children's Tylenol, and Tylenol Sinus Congestion & Pain.


  Kirkland Signature  

Started in 1995, the Kirkland Signature brand by Costco has maintained positive growth, representing a growing portion of the company's overall sales. Signature encompasses hundreds of items, including clothing, coffee, laundry detergent, food, and beverages. Costco even provides members with exclusive access to cheaper gasoline at its private gas stations. Adding to Kirkland's popularity is the fact that its products cost less than other name brands.


  Starbucks  

Rated the sixth-most-admired company in the world by Fortune magazine in 2020, Starbucks is held in high regard for its pledge to social responsibility. With more than 31,000 stores around the globe in 2019, Starbucks remains the largest roaster and retailer of Arabica coffee beans and specialty coffees.


  Coca-Cola  

With a profit margins between 25-30%, Coca-Cola is often rated the most valuable soda brand in the world. However, the brand itself represents more than just the products—it's symbolic of positive experiences, a proud history, even the U.S. itself. Also recognized for its unique marketing campaigns, the Coca-Cola corporation has made a global impact on its consumer engagement.


  Porsche  

Porsche, a brand with strong equity in the automobile sector, retains its image and reliability through the use of high-quality, unique materials. Viewed as a luxury brand, Porsche provides owners of its vehicles not only with a product but an experience. In comparison to other vehicle brands in its class, Porsche was the top luxury brand in 2020, according to U.S. News & World Report.


   Tracking a Company's Success With Brand Equity  

Brand equity is a major indicator of company strength and performance, specifically in the public markets. Often, companies in the same industry or sector compete on brand equity. For example, two top companies—Home Depot and Lowe's Home Improvement—consistently rank as the top two hardware and home store brands in the Harris Poll EquiTrend's brands of the year list. The 2020 survey found that Lowe's was the top hardware company in terms of brand equity and Home Depot came in second. However, in 2019, the roles were reversed, with Home Depot beating out Lowe's for the top spot.



A large component of brand equity in the hardware environment is consumer perception of the strength of a company's e-commerce business. Both Lowe's and Home Depot are industry leaders in this category. It was also found that, besides e-commerce, both companies have high familiarity among consumers, allowing them to further penetrate the industry and increase their brand equity.




Why Is Brand Equity Important?
Brand equity is important for a number of reasons. One reason is increased customer loyalty. A strong brand equity can lead to increased customer loyalty, as consumers are more likely to choose a brand they know and trust. This can lead to repeat purchases and a more stable customer base. Another reason is higher perceived value. Brands with strong equity are often able to command higher prices for their products or services, as consumers perceive them as having greater value. A strong brand can also give a company a competitive advantage in the market, as consumers are more likely to choose a familiar brand over a lesser-known one. This can help the company gain a greater market share, as consumers are more likely to choose a trusted brand over competitors. Additionally, brands with strong equity often have a positive reputation and are able to provide high-quality products or services, which can lead to greater customer satisfaction.




What Are the Elements of Brand Equity?
The elements of brand equity include:Brand awareness: This refers to the extent to which consumers are familiar with and recognize a brand.Brand loyalty: This refers to the degree to which consumers consistently choose a specific brand over others.Brand image: This refers to the perception that consumers have of a brand and its associated attributes, such as quality, reliability, and uniqueness.Brand associations: This refers to the emotional or psychological associations that consumers have with a brand, such as feelings of trust, reliability, or nostalgia.Brand value: This refers to the perceived benefits and overall value that consumers attribute to a brand, which can influence their purchasing decisions.




What Factors Affect Brand Equity?
There are several factors that can affect brand equity. One factor is the quality of products or services. Consumers are more likely to have a positive perception of a brand if they consistently provide high-quality products or services. Marketing and branding efforts are also important. Consistent and effective marketing and branding efforts can help build and maintain a positive brand image. Customer experiences also play a role in brand equity. Positive customer experiences can lead to increased loyalty and positive brand associations. The brand's reputation is also important, as consumers are more likely to choose a brand they perceive as trustworthy and reliable. Competition can also impact a brand's equity, as consumers may have multiple options to choose from. Finally, changes in consumer preferences or trends can affect a brand's equity, as consumers may shift towards different brands or products.


   The Bottom Line  

Brand equity refers to the value that a specific brand adds to a product or service. It is the positive perception or emotional attachment that consumers have towards a brand, which can influence their purchasing decisions and overall loyalty to the brand. It is created through consistent marketing efforts, positive customer experiences, and the overall reputation of the brand. Companies with strong brand equity often have a competitive advantage in the market and can command higher prices for their products or services.
What Is Brand Extension?  

A brand extension is when a company uses one of its established brand names on a new product or new product category. It's sometimes known as brand stretching. The strategy behind a brand extension is to use the company's already established brand equity to help it launch its newest product. The company relies on the brand loyalty of its current customers, which it hopes will make them more receptive to new offerings from the same brand. If successful, a brand extension can help a company reach new demographics, expand its customer base, increase sales, and boost overall profit margins.





Key Takeaways

Brand extension is the introduction of a new product that relies on the name and reputation of an established product.Brand extension works when the original and new products share a common quality or characteristic that the consumer can immediately identify.Brand extension fails when the new product is unrelated to the original, is seen as a mismatch, or even creates a negative association.


   How Brand Extension Works  

A brand extension leverages the reputation, popularity, and brand loyalty associated with a well-known product to launch a new product. To be successful, there must be a logical association between the original product and the new item. A weak or nonexistent association can result in the opposite effect, brand dilution. This can even harm the parent brand.



Successful brand extensions allow companies to diversify their offerings and increase market share. They can give the company a competitive advantage over its rivals that don't offer similar products. The existing brand serves as an effective and inexpensive marketing tool for the new product.



Apple (AAPL) is an example of a company that has a history of effectively using a brand extension strategy to propel growth. Starting with its popular Mac computers, the company has leveraged its brand to sell products in new categories, as can be seen with the iPod, the iPad, and the iPhone.






Companies that are able to successfully extend their brand are often said to benefit from the halo effect, which allows them to capitalize on the positive perception consumers have of their products to launch new products.


   Real World Examples of Brand Extension  

Brand extension can be as obvious as offering the original product in a new form. For example, the Boston Market restaurant chain launched a line of frozen dinners under its own name, offering similar fare.



Another form of brand extension combines two well-known products. Breyers ice cream with Oreo cookie chunks is a matchup that relies on consumers' loyalty to either or both original brands.



Brand extension also may be applied to a different product category. Google's core business is a search engine, but it has an assortment of other non-advertising related products and services including the Play Store, Chromebooks, Google Apps, and the Google Cloud Platform.



In the best examples, the brand extension is natural and arises from a recognized positive quality of the original product. Arm & Hammer produces a deodorizing cat litter under its brand name. Black & Decker makes a line of toy tools for children. Ghirardelli Chocolate Company sells a brownie mix. The creation of complementary products is a form of brand extension. The many varieties and flavors of Coca-Cola are an example.


   Criticism of Brand Extension  

The cost of introducing a product through brand extension is lower than the cost of introducing a new product that has no brand identity. The original brand communicates the message.



However, brand extensions fail when the product lines are a distinct mismatch. The brand name may even cast a disagreeable light on the new product. Before launching a new product, brand managers need to keep their target audience in mind and consider which products fit well under their company's brand.



An example of an unsuccessful brand extension occurred in the early 1980s when popular jeans manufacturer Levi Strauss & Co. decided to launch a line of men's three-piece suits under the sub-brand Levi's Tailored Classics. After years of poor sales, the company discontinued the line. The company couldn't overcome consumers' perception of the brand as one associated with rugged casual wear and not business attire. However, Levi's learned from its mistake and in 1986 introduced Levi's Dockers, a line of casual khaki pants and other men's apparel that has since been a consistent top seller for the company.﻿﻿
What Is Brand Identity?  

Brand identity is the visible elements of a brand, such as color, design, and logo, that identify and distinguish the brand in consumers' minds. Brand identity is distinct from brand image. The former corresponds to the intent behind the branding and the way a company does the following—all to cultivate a certain image in consumers' minds:



Chooses its nameDesigns its logoUses colors, shapes, and other visual elements in its products and promotionsCrafts the language in its advertisementsTrains employees to interact with customers



Brand image is the actual result of these efforts, successful or unsuccessful. 





Key Takeaways

Brand identity is the visible elements of a brand, such as color, design, and logo that identify and distinguish the brand in consumers' minds.Consistent marketing and messaging lead to consistent brand identity and, therefore, consistent sales.Building a positive brand image can bring in consistent sales and make product roll-outs more successful.Building a positive, cohesive brand image requires analyzing the company and its market, and determining the company's goals, customers, and message.Social media is a powerful driver of brand awareness. 












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Brand Identity  

Brand identity in many ways is the visual (symbol or illustration) aspect of a brand. Think of the Nike 'swoosh' or Apple's apple—those are two instances where the identity of a brand is connected with a symbol or visual aspect. Building brand identity must have a strong visual image to link the brand. A brand identity is compiled of various branding elements. When you put them together, the identity in many ways is the mascot of your brand. It is how a company expresses and describes itself from the images on its marketing materials, the colors that represent the brand, and how a company markets itself on social media. A strong brand identity strengthens a company's popularity and presence in a competitive market.



Beyond saving the company money on promotion, a successful brand can be one of the company's most valuable assets. Brand value is intangible, making it difficult to quantify. Still, common approaches take into account the cost it would take to build a similar brand, the cost of royalties to use the brand name, and the cash flow of comparative unbranded businesses.



Nike, Inc., for example, owns one of the world's most instantly recognizable logos, the "swoosh." According to Forbes' "The 2020 World's Most Powerful Brands" report, the Nike brand ranked 13 with an estimated brand value of $39.1 billion, even though, in a world devoid of brand perception, taking the swoosh off of Nike's shoes and apparel would change nothing about their comfort or performance. The top brand on the 2020 list was Apple, with an estimated brand value of $241.2 billion.


   Building Brand Identity  

The steps a company should take to build a strong, cohesive, and consistent brand identity will vary, but a few points apply broadly to most:



Analyze the company and the market. A complete SWOT analysis that includes the entire firm—a look at the company's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats—is a proven way to help managers understand their situation to determine better their goals and the steps required to achieve them.
Determine key business goals. The brand identity should help fulfill these goals. For example, if an automaker is pursuing a niche luxury market, its ads should be crafted to appeal to that market. They should appear on channels and sites where potential customers are likely to see them.
Identify its customers. Conducting surveys, convening focus groups, and holding one-on-one interviews can help a company identify its consumer group.
Determine the personality and message it wants to communicate. A company needs to create a consistent perception rather than trying to combine every conceivable positive trait: utility, affordability, quality, nostalgia, modernity, luxury, flash, taste, and class. All brand elements, including copy, imagery, cultural allusions, and color schemes, should align and deliver a coherent message.






Building a brand identity is a multi-disciplinary strategic effort, and every element needs to support the overall message and business goals.


   History of Brand Identity  

National, religious, guild, and heraldic symbols, which we might see as analogous to modern branding, go back millennia. The modern practice dates to the industrial revolution; however, when household goods began to be produced in factories, manufacturers needed a way to differentiate themselves from competitors.



Thus, these efforts evolved from simple visual branding to advertisements that included mascots, jingles, and other sales and marketing techniques. Many companies claim to have the oldest trademarked brands: Twinings Tea, Stella Artois, and Levi Strauss.


   Special Considerations  

Building a brand identity is a multi-disciplinary strategic effort, and every element needs to support the overall message and business goals. It can include a company's name, logo, and design; its style and the tone of its copy; the look and composition of its products; and, of course, its social media presence.



Apple founder Steve Jobs famously obsessed over details as small as the shade of gray on bathroom signs in Apple stores. While that level of focus may not be necessary, the anecdote shows that Apple's successful branding results from the intense effort, not just luck. But building brand identity isn't just for the big leagues. All companies, both small and mid-sized businesses, should build a strong brand identity.




Why Does Brand Identity Matter?
Brand identity matters because without it, customers are not able to recognize a brand easily. A strong brand may helps sell a company to consumers.




What Makes a Good Brand?
A good brand has a clear focus, strong visuals, is familiar with its target audience (family versus mature audience, for example) and is easily recognizable in a sea of similar brands.




What Are Famous Brands?
Nike, Mcdonald's, Apple, Google, Disney, and Amazon have some of the most recognizable and valuable brands.
As Harvard Business Review (HBR) has reported, companies with high scores on two often-overlooked (and closely related) market research metrics—brand loyalty and customer loyalty—not only grow revenues 2.5 times faster than industry peers, but also deliver two to five times the returns to shareholders over 10-year time frames. The fact that brand loyalty—a long-term commitment to make repeat purchases of a particular brand—is not dependent on price makes this metric a particularly powerful driver of both profit and profitability (i.e., profit relative to expenses).



The primary reason that brand loyalty is so important to profitability is straightforward: 65% of revenue in most companies comes from repeat business with existing clients. Not only do existing customers loyal to brands purchase 90% more frequently than new customers, but maintaining the brand-loyal segment is also far less expensive than marketing to attract new customers.



In the wake of plummeting sales during the 2020 pandemic, it is more important than ever for businesses in every industry to ramp up investment in marketing programs designed to retain every company’s most valuable asset: their existing, brand-loyal customer base.





Key Takeaways

Brand loyalty—repeat purchases of a particular brand based on the perception of higher quality and better service than any competitor—is not dependent on price.Companies with high scores on brand loyalty grow revenues 2.5 times faster than industry peers.Brand-loyalty leaders also deliver two to five times the returns to shareholders over 10-year time frames.The first and most important condition for brand loyalty is quality. No matter how large the marketing spend, poor quality will kill brand loyalty.Brand loyalty is measured through customer retention, customer lifetime value, and customer satisfaction surveys.


   What Is Brand Loyalty?  

Unlike customer loyalty, which is money-based (prices and discounts), brand loyalty is perception-based (image and experience). Brand-loyal customers believe that a certain brand represents both higher quality and better service than any competitor—and the price does not matter. Brand-loyal customers might make fewer total purchases, but the profit margins on their purchases are larger.



Once established, brand loyalty is fairly easy to retain—assuming, of course, that product quality and service level remain high. Brand loyalty is also less expensive to retain than customer loyalty, which requires constantly offering low prices and regular discounts to maintain best-deal-on-the-market status.


   How to Build Brand Loyalty  

Most established brand-name products operate in highly competitive markets, jockeying for market share with new and old rival products, many of them barely distinguishable. To thrive in this dynamic, marketing departments employ various tactics to create and maintain brand loyalty, including monitoring buying trends, analyzing spending data, and designing advertising campaigns targeting their existing-loyal and likely-to-become-loyal customer segments.



Here are some of the most frequently cited strategies to create and maintain the brand-loyal customer base that can take your business to the next level.



Best-in-Class Quality: The first and most important qualification—the essential condition— for brand loyalty is quality. No matter how large your marketing budget is or how many celebrity endorsements you have, low-quality products and services will always be ridiculed on social media. On the other hand, companies that consistently deliver best-in-class quality will convert customers into brand-loyal advocates who spread positive word-of-mouth and never feel the need to shop elsewhere.



Customer Service: Exceptional customer service is expensive—24/7 chat reps, social-media managers, phone operators, support-ticket staff—but ensuring that customers always receive first-class service is an investment that drives the level of brand loyalty that generates big returns. In fact, in a crowded market, first-rate service that makes customers feel valued might be the only thing that sets a brand apart from its competitors. For customer service to maximize brand loyalty, customers must have access to user-friendly systems to submit feedback and register complaints—and a dedicated team of associates should be trained to address their submissions promptly.



Brand Ambassadors: In addition to brand-loyal customers who provide free word-of-mouth advertising on social media, companies hire spokespersons to function as brand ambassadors for their products. In addition to having a solid marketing background and an established online presence with an engaged network across platforms (via blog, emails, webinars), a successful brand ambassador should have an authentic, professional presence, in-depth knowledge of products and services, and highly developed expertise at building loyal customer relationships. Beyond this, the best brand ambassadors are also skilled at gathering the critical customer and competitor intelligence that can translate into profitable business improvements.



Loyalty Programs: Establishing a program to reward existing customers for their business is one of the most direct ways to build brand loyalty. It is worth repeating that—no matter how expensive the redemptions for store credits, discounts, and free products are—investing in the retention and loyalty of existing customers is far less expensive than marketing for new customers. This is especially true for premium-priced brands, because an exclusive discount for loyalty-program members can be just the right incentive to choose the pricey brand over a less expensive option.



Online Community: As e-commerce continues to accelerate—U.S. online spend for 2022 is expected to hit $1 trillion—building an online community to drive brand loyalty is essential for businesses across industries. Unlike static advertisements, social media has a range of tools to forge deeper, more personal connections with customers, from hosting Q&As and live streams with employees to taking customers on behind-the-scenes tours of the business.



Not only does a digital community serve as an easy access point to interact with customers who spend hours online, but—as an extension of the website—a community can also serve as a bridge from social interaction to purchase conversion.






Brand loyalty is said to have started in the 18th century when an American merchant would hand out copper coins to repeat customers.


   Brand-Loyalty Leaders  

Here are two examples of companies who have made highly profitable investments in brand loyalty by prioritizing quality and customer service. Not only can these brand-loyalty leaders charge more for their products, but they also save on marketing costs—social media and email marketing to existing customers is a fraction of the cost of attracting new customers.



Apple: In 2021, Apple had an outstanding brand loyalty score of 92%—the tech giant retained a higher percentage of existing clients than any other company in any industry. Apple’s status as the world’s most valuable brand is based not only on revolutionary technology and state-of-the-art design but also on unparalleled brand power and stellar customer service.



Anyone who has ever seen a line of customers wrapping around an Apple store in anticipation of the latest release understands that brand power impacts the true value of a product as much as—or more than—any other driver of market performance. As Apple rolls out fee-based services, including Apple TV and gaming, the company is likely to add to even more share of wallet (SOW)—the dollar amount a customer spends on one company's brand at the expense of competitors.



Nike: One of the most important reasons that Nike is the most valuable sports brand in the world is an industry-leading membership program that delivers four drivers of brand loyalty:



exclusivity (access to exclusive perks: tickets and product launches)community (free workout classes, training support); personalization (birthday and anniversary gifts, personalized product recommendations) omnichannel experience (in-store, on-site, mobile app).


   Statistics on Brand Loyalty and Profitability  

The correlation between brand loyalty and profitability has been well documented for decades. Here are a few impressive statistics:



Customer Retention: In 2020, Harvard Business School reported that—“in industry after industry“—increasing customer retention rates by 5% increases profits by at least 25% and up to 95%—a statistic that “set off a rush to craft retention strategies, many of which continue to pay large dividends.”



Customer Lifetime Value (CLV): One of the most significant statistics linking loyalty to long-term rewards was reported by Microsoft: a 7% increase in brand loyalty increases the customer lifetime value (CLV) of each client by 85%. (CLV, a metric to measure the growth of a company, is the total expected revenue earned from a single customer over the lifetime of the relationship.)



Customer Service: 83% of customers would switch brands because of a bad customer service experience.



Consistent Quality: 74% of consumers say that product quality is the main reason to stay loyal to a brand.



Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): 25% of Gen-Z and Millennial consumers will spend more for a brand that takes a strong stand on corporate social responsibility (CSR) issues.






Brand loyalty is deeply tied to psychology disposition, as a consumer may intentionally forego a logical choice in favor of supporting their preferred brand.


   Brand Loyalty: Customer Capitalism vs. Shareholder Primacy  

One might ask—if the connection between profitability and customer metrics like brand loyalty is so well-established—why do businesses often neglect their most valuable customers? The Harvard Business Review (HBR) proposes a few interesting answers to that question: financial accounting and shareholder primacy.



The HBR article argues that, because financial disclosure rules and corporate accounting practices require almost no reporting on customer value, a short-term mentality that prioritizes quarterly earnings over customer relationships has blinded both management and shareholders to the crucial role that loyalty plays in profitability. Compounding the financial reporting omissions, two very different profitability strategies—shareholder primacy vs. customer capitalism—have affected how customer metrics like brand loyalty are ranked as profit drivers.



On one side, in the 1950s, Peter Drucker, who was called “the father of business consulting” by Forbes and “the greatest management thinker of the last century" by GE Chair Jack Welch, said that “the true purpose of a business is to create and keep customers." On the other side, in the 1970s, Milton Friedman said that companies exist to maximize shareholder value—period—an argument that HBR said introduced "the age of shareholder primacy."



Current adherents of the “customer capitalism” approach argue that companies that put customers—not shareholders—first can create even greater value for shareholders. For example, in 2019, the New York Times reported that CEOs from the Business Roundtable—including power players like Tim Cook of Apple, Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Mary Barra of General Motors, Robert F. Smith of Vista Equity Partners, and Larry Fink of BlackRock—broke with decades of corporate orthodoxy by issuing a statement that “the purpose of a corporation” is no longer to advance only the interests of shareholders. Instead, companies must now deliver value on several new fronts: both directly to customers and indirectly by supporting customer values on issues like protecting the environment and dealing ethically with suppliers.




Why Is Brand Loyalty Important?
The primary reason that brand loyalty is important is that it is a major driver of profitability: 65% of revenue in most companies comes from repeat business with existing clients—and existing customers loyal to brands purchase 90% more frequently than new customers,




What Is the Difference Between Brand Loyalty and Customer Loyalty?
Brand loyalty is perception-based (image and experience); customer loyalty is money-based (prices and discounts). Brand-loyal customers believe that a certain brand represents higher quality and better service than any competitor—and price does not matter. Customer loyalty requires offering low prices and regular discounts to maintain best-deal-on-the-market status.




What Are Brand Ambassadors?
Brand ambassadors are professional marketers that companies hire to serve as spokespersons for their products. To succeed, brand ambassadors need an established online presence with an engaged network across platforms, in-depth knowledge of products and services, and highly developed expertise at building loyal customer relationships.




What Are the 3 Types of Brand Loyalty?
Consumers are often swayed by their head, heart, or hand. Heart loyal customers are usually driven by a non-tangible benefit of a brand such as its impact on the local community or the environment. Head loyal customers that make rational choices often see the analytical reasoning behind supporting a specific brand or product. Hand loyal customers often buy without regard for outside factors such as price; these customers are extremely difficult to convert.




How Do You Identify Brand Loyalty?
Though some may smirk at customers waiting in line (potentially in the rain) for the latest cell phone release, there are obvious signs of brand loyalty worth being envious of. Products that sell out quickly, are backordered, require waitlists to get, or have popular pre-sale quantities indicate customers are willing to buy a good before the market has even decided its value. You can also measure brand loyalty by tracking repeat customers and customer lifetime value; the higher for each, the more likely consumers will repeat their purchases with a company or brand.


   The Bottom Line  

Brand loyalty is the marketing success that occurs when companies are able to retain customers across product lines. By increasing retention, customer lifetime value, and customer satisfaction, companies are more likely to earn more money. Instead of investing capital in trying to land new clients, companies that have high brand loyalty have the advantage of deploying that capital to improve its product or enhance its customer service to repeat consumers.
What Is Brand Management?  

Brand management is a function of marketing that uses techniques to increase the perceived value of a product line or brand over time. Effective brand management enables the price of products to go up and builds loyal customers through positive brand associations and images or a strong awareness of the brand.



Developing a strategic plan to maintain brand equity or gain brand value requires a comprehensive understanding of the brand, its target market, and the company's overall vision.





Key Takeaways

Brand management is a function of marketing that uses techniques to increase the perceived value of a product line or brand over time.Effective brand management helps a company build a loyal customer base and helps fuel a company's profits.A brand manager ensures the innovation of a product or brand, creating brand awareness via the use of price, packaging, logo, associated colors, and lettering format.Brand management is usually centered around fostering the brand recognition, brand equity, and brand loyalty of a product.Brand equity refers to the value a company gains from its name recognition, enabling it to be the popular choice among consumers even when compared to a generic brand with a lower price point.


   How Brand Management Works  

Brands have a powerful influence on customer engagement, competition in the markets, and the management of a company. A strong brand presence in the market differentiates a company’s products from its competitors and creates brand affinity for a company’s products or services.



A brand that has been established has to continually maintain its brand image through brand management. Effective brand management increases brand awareness, measures and manages brand equity, drives initiatives that support a consistent brand message, identifies and accommodates new brand products, and effectively positions the brand in the market.



It takes years to establish a brand, but when it finally occurs, it has to still be maintained through innovation and creativity. Notable brands that have established themselves as leaders in their respective industries over the years include Coca-Cola, McDonald’s, Microsoft, IBM, Procter & Gamble, CNN, Disney, Nike, Ford, Lego, and Starbucks.


   Benefits of Brand Management  

Distinguished Products. According to the most recent U.S. Census data, there were over 250,000 full-service restaurants in the United States as of 2019. Strong brand management is necessary if any of these restaurants want to be recognizable apart from their competitors.
Strong Employee Engagement. Brand management begins with the internal buy-in of the values, principles, and perception of a product. By ensuring all people in a company are part of the brand management process, employees may be more likely to buy into the strategic plan of the brand and company.
Increased sales quantity. Though never a given, stronger brand management that drives brand loyalty and brand equity may drive stronger sales quantities. As more consumers are tied to a brand or positively recognize a brand, they are more likely to choose it over an unfamiliar alternative (all else being equal).
Increased CLV. Customer lifetime value. In addition to greater sales quantities, brand management drives stronger value over the lifespan of a customer. Customers are more likely to repeat purchases if they have a positive experience and may be more likely to buy different products along the same product line if they forge strong brand loyalty with a single brand.
Leveraged Pricing. If a company has a strong reputation with the market, their brand management may be leveraged to other products. This means a company can sell products at a premium if their brand invokes a strong enough connection to consumers (i.e. Apple).
Less Volatile Market Position. Though companies always risk depressed financial results during market downturns, companies with stronger brand management may be able to weather the storm easier. This is because consumers may find it non-negotiable to deviate from companies they have strong, positive associations with even during inclement financial times.


   Effective Brand Management Techniques  

Brand management may seem complex, but there are a number of simple, elegant techniques that make the process manageable. Here are some of the more effective ways brand management occurs.


  Establish Branding Basics  

Brand management often begins with the basics, and that means establishing a strong mission statement, logo, target audience, and vision statement. Though these are often created by the marketing team during a company or product's infancy, it is up to the brand management team to further refine and drive the branding basics.


  Create Compelling Stories  

As the product or company begins to be used by consumers, it is critical that the brand management team strengthens the relationship between the good and user. This means capitalizing on emotional stories by tapping into the human connection to however the company's products are being used.


  Leverage Software  

Often guided by social media and a website, brand management must be cohesive across all media platforms. This includes any televised, radioed, or printed advertising. The more marketing channels a company has, the more important it is for brand management to cohesively link these to convey a single, consistent message to consumers.


  Consider Branding Language  

On a related note, the brand management process must be guided by a consistent use of language and tone. This may be easier to convey using photos or printed advertisements. However, different challenges may arise if different people are managing different marketing channels. As long as the receiving channels are the same across product lines, the brand management team must ensure the wording and feeling behind communications are consistent.


  Establish Internal Rules  

All of the tips above don't matter if the internal branding and marketing teams aren't aligned. Therefore, the brand management team must effectively implement limits and rules on how certain activities are performed. For example, the brand management team may restrict the use to certain fonts, images, designs, or color schemes. Any deviations from these rules must be run through the brand management team for special approval.


   Brand Management Elements  

There’s three critical elements to brand management: equity, recognition, and loyalty. Though it may be difficult to quantifiably measure the benefits of each, brand management plays a direct part in developing all three aspects of a brand.


  Brand Recognition  

Brand management often starts with brand recognition. If a company can’t invoke positive emotions in consumers when they see a brand, that may be no brand to manage. In addition, brand recognition entails ensuring recognition of a brand invokes a favorable response instead of brand opposition.



This is especially important for new products being brought to market; a company must decide how to best manage that brand and invest upfront capital to make the brand more recognizable. On the other hand, more established brands must decide how many resources to allocate to maintain or strengthen a brand's existing position.


  Brand Equity  

Brand equity is the commercial value of a product’s image. Though a company doesn’t actually receive the direct dollars of value from its products having high brand equity, brand equity often translates to greater sales as consumers associate a product or brand with greater value. Brand equity is built over time through positive experiences, associates, and demonstrated value.



Consider an example of a billboard displaying an advertisement for Powerade. Because of the positive name association of Powerade (via partnerships with professional sports leagues and massive markets), it may have greater brand equity than a generic brand. Similar to how a company may become more valuable over time as it becomes worth more, a brand’s value can increase over time in the same way.


  Brand Loyalty  

A customer may recognize a brand, and a customer may even assess strong positive value with a brand. However, if that customer is easily swayed to pivot to a competing product, brand management has failed. The objective of brand loyalty is invoke such as strong relationship between the consumer and the brand that the consumer can't fathom diverting from the brand's products.



Whereas brand recognition occurs on the front-end of brand management, brand loyalty is a long-term achievement that is earned in a variety of ways. Companies must demonstrate their products meet consumer needs. In addition, companies must ensure strong customer service ensures a customer has a positive experience along the entire life of the product.






Smaller companies with lower headcount may have one dedicated team to both the creation of (brand management) and implementation of (marketing) branding strategies.


   Brand Management vs. Marketing  

Brand management and marketing both appear to do the same thing; after all, both departments influence how external stakeholders perceive the company's or product's brands. However, there are subtle differences between the two.


  Marketing Initially Leads, Brand Management Follows  

When companies or products are launched, those companies or divisions may not have a fully dedicated team for brand management. Instead, they more often have a collection of marketing professionals that guide the initial external management of public perception. That marketing team may own many initial aspects of brand management, though their role often entails much more than simply honing in on a branding strategy.


  Marketing Is Broad, Brand Management Is Specific  

As a product line or company matures, the brand in question may receive more resources, especially if the brand has been successful. At this point, the brand management team documents, defines, and formalizes the brand strategy. This plan is much more detailed than the initial plans laid out by the marketing team. In addition, the brand management team will be more likely to collect information from other departments to ensure a broader, company-wide adoption of the brand management implementation plan.


  Marketing Is More External, Brand Management Is More Internal  

The marketing team of a company is primarily focused on the outside interactions. This includes communications, event presence, public perception, and public relations. Though these aspects may play a part in crafting the brand, brand management is more internally-focused on strategically devising the course of action. Brand management is more likely to outline the strategy and internal buy-in, whereas marketing is more likely to implement the external strategy and external acceptance of the brand.


   Examples of Brand Management  

For some, seeing a gecko reminds them of GEICO Insurance which uses the reptile in most of its advertising campaigns. Similarly, the Coca-Cola jingle "It’s the Real Thing," which first aired in 1971 as a TV commercial that featured people of different races and cultures, is still popular and familiar to generations of Coca-Cola consumers.



A brand does not have to be tied to one product. One brand could cover different products or services. Ford, for example, has multiple auto models under the Ford brand. Likewise, a brand name can take on multiple brands under its umbrella.



For example, Procter & Gamble has multiple brands under its brand name, such as Ariel laundry detergent, Charmin tissue, Bounty paper towels, Dawn dishwashing liquid, and Crest toothpaste.


   Requirements of a Brand Manager  

A brand manager is tasked with managing the tangible and intangible properties of a brand. The tangible aspects of a company’s brand include the product's price, packaging, logo, associated colors, and lettering format.



A brand manager’s role is to analyze how a brand is perceived in the market by taking the intangible elements of a brand into account. Intangible factors include the experience that the consumers have had with the brand and their emotional connection with the product or service. The intangible characteristics of a brand build brand equity.



Brand equity is the price above the product’s value that consumers are willing to pay to acquire the brand. Brand equity is an internally generated intangible asset in which its value is ultimately decided by consumers’ perception of the brand. If consumers are willing to pay more for a brand than a generic brand that performs the same functions, the brand equity will increase in value. On the other hand, the value of brand equity falls when consumers would rather purchase a similar product that costs less than the brand.






A cult brand is an example of a "benign cult" where the customer base for a product or service is extremely loyal, leading to the brand's success as a growing legion of customers feel a unique emotional connection with the brand. 


   The Importance of Innovation in Brand Management  

Brand management involves not only creating a brand but also understanding what products could fit under the brand of a company. A brand manager always has to keep its target market in mind when conceiving new products to take on the company’s brand or working with analysts to decide what companies to merge with or acquire.



The difference between brand management success and failure comes down to ongoing innovation. A brand manager that continuously seeks innovative ways to maintain the quality of a brand will retain its loyal consumers and gain more brand affinity, compared to one that is content with the current good name of the company’s brand.




What Is Meant By Brand Management?
Brand management is the creation and enforcement of rules surrounding how a company or product is communicated to markets. This includes dictating boundaries on advertising, language, tone, and cadence of communication with customers.




Why Is Brand Management Important?
Brand management is important because it dictates how public markets perceive goods. Without brand management, consumers may not become loyal to a product line or may not choose to repeat purchases with a company after a positive experience. Effective brand management may lead to not only to greater sales quantities in the short-term but greater long-term financial success due to long-term customers.




What Is the Goal of Brand Management?
The goal of brand management is to form a specific perception about a product or company. By strategically determining the font, language, style of messaging, and marketing plans, the brand management team hopes to make the public see a product or company in a specific light.


   The Bottom Line  

Brand management is the vague strategy of guiding public perception of a good, product, service, or company. Brand management is heavily tied to creating brand equity, loyalty, and recognition. It is also formulated by a dedicated team, most often after the marketing team has built-out an initial marketing plan. By effectively building out a brand management strategy, a company may experience stronger short-term and long-term financial success.
What Is Brand Personality?  

The term brand personality refers to a set of human characteristics that are attributed to a brand name. An effective brand increases its brand equity by having a consistent set of traits that a specific consumer segment enjoys. This personality is a qualitative value-add that a brand gains in addition to its functional benefits.



A brand personality is something to which the consumer can relate. If the consumer becomes a regular customer, they may start to identify parts of their own personality with the brand personality.





Key Takeaways

Brand personality is a set of human characteristics that are attributed to a brand name.Companies should accurately define their brand personalities so they resonate with the right consumers.A company's brand should aim to elicit a positive emotional response from a targeted consumer segment.The personal side of brand personality is so important especially in the digital age of artificial intelligence and automation.Don't confuse brand personality with imagery, which consists of a company's creative assets.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   How Brand Personality Works  

Brand personality is a framework that helps a company or organization shape the way people feel about its product, service, or mission. A company's brand personality elicits an emotional response in a specific consumer segment. The intention of building a brand personality is to incite positive actions that benefit the business.



Customers are more likely to purchase a brand if its personality is similar to their own. There are five main types of brand personalities with common traits:



Excitement: Carefree, spirited, playful, modern, trendy, and youthfulSincerity: Kindness, thoughtfulness, and an orientation toward family values, environmental sustainability, or care for workers and communitiesRuggedness: Rough, tough, outdoorsy, unfussy, and athleticCompetence: Successful, accomplished, and influential, which is highlighted by leadershipSophistication: Elegant, prestigious, exclusive, luxurious, and sometimes even pretentious



Brand personalities are even more important, especially in the digital age where automation and artificial intelligence (AI) technology is growing. As much as consumers enjoy being able to shop online or have companies predict their preferences, studies show that people still want personal interaction and direct customer service when it comes to the way they do business with companies.






Customers are more likely to purchase a brand if its personality is similar to their own.



Companies share their brand personality in a variety of ways. Marketing materials, both written and visual, emphasize or communicate these qualities and values. If the brand partners with celebrities or influencers, they should be people already known for those qualities. How a business interacts with its industry or community can also communicate its personality through events, product releases, or charitable partnerships.


   Brand Personality vs. Imagery  

A company's brand personality should not be confused with its imagery. A company's imagery is a series of creative assets that communicate the tangible benefits of its brand. Conversely, a firm's brand personality directly creates an emotional association in the mind of an ideal consumer group. Brand personality should influence the imagery and other marketing materials that a company creates and uses.



It is important for a company to accurately define its brand personality so it resonates with the appropriate consumer. This is because brand personality creates increased brand equity and defines the brand's attitude in the marketplace. It is also the key factor of any successful marketing campaign. In order to choose a brand's personality, companies consider the five personality types and select the one the company wishes to convey.



If, for example, a new outdoor apparel company wants to resonate with consumers, the natural inclination is to create a brand personality that is rugged. But it is possible that a competitor may have already positioned itself as the rugged outdoor apparel brand. To set itself apart, the new company can position itself uniquely in the mind of the customer by adopting a brand personality of sophistication. This differentiates the brand as an upscale, high-end option to outdoor apparel, which attracts a specific type of consumer.


   Real-World Examples of Brand Personality  

There are many examples in the corporate world of how brand personality works. Here are some common, well-known ones.


  Dove  

Dove chooses sincerity as its brand personality. In doing so, the company hopes to attract feminine consumers who don't like the superficial image associated with many personal care and beauty brands.



One of Dove's major marketing pushes was the Real Beauty campaign, which features videos that explored how brand images are retouched and photoshopped. It also uses models with diversely-sized bodies in its advertisements and features interviews with celebrity activists on its websites. All this creates a brand personality that feels thoughtful and genuine, which appeals to customers who don't want to be associated with traditional beauty standards.


  Nike  

Nike has an excited brand personality that motivated athletes identify with. The company's motto "Just Do It," evokes a driven, athletic person who is always willing to pursue new goals.



Nike's products and marketing tend to feature bold colors, such as neon accents, that feel energetic and modern. Its commercials show people overcoming obstacles or achieving goals while wearing Nike apparel. Its brand personality feels active, ambitious, and inspirational, which are all personality traits that athletes tend to associate with themselves.


  Luxury Brands  

Luxury brands, such as Michael Kors and Chanel, aim to create a sophisticated, glamorous brand personality, which attracts a high-spending consumer base.



These brands use images that evoke elitism and luxury, with elegant settings and glamorous clothes. Michael Kors calls its rewards programs "VIP," while Chanel has a section on its website devoted to "haute couture." Their goods are priced above what many shoppers can easily afford, and since they have highly-recognizable logos, customers who buy them can flaunt their ability to make those purchases without having to say anything directly. All this creates a brand personality that showcases the upper-class, trendy lifestyle that their ideal customers want to be associated with.


  REI  

REI is an outdoor recreation retail store. It has a rugged brand personality that outdoorsy, adventurous customers can identify with. The REI website uses phrases like "Gear Up For Adventure" in its copy, while branding is done with bold, unfussy, colors that are associated with the outdoors and action, such as pine green and dark orange. Event the website is organized not by type of item but by type of activity: Camp & Hike, Cycle, Snow, Water, et cetera.



REI's brand personality feels strong, resilient, and exploratory, which is how its ideal customers want to see themselves.


  Starbucks  

Starbucks has positioned itself as having multiple components to its brand personality, including sophistication, sincerity, and excitement. It uses different components of its business to achieve each of these.



Sophistication: Starbucks advertises its coffee as high-end. Employees are educated about the different types and blends, and Starbucks offers its own exclusive line of coffee for sale. The company has introduced many branded drinks that become cultural touchpoints, such as the Frappucino.Excitement: Starbucks encourages membership by offering rewards, including seasonal games such as "Adventure Awaits" in summer, when customers can win prizes. The company usually has seasonal drinks that are only available for a limited time, which drives social media excitement.Sincerity: To counter the dislike of customers who see Starbucks as "too corporate," the company has a strong environmental and social message. It includes sections on environmental impact and diversity on its website, as well as running partnerships with different charities or offering discounts to groups like veterans.



By creating a brand personality with so many different but complementary aspects, Starbucks is able to appeal to a wide variety of customers who associate themselves with different priorities and traits. For example, customers who define themselves as socially conscious might generally avoid buying from large corporations. But they can still feel good about associating with Starbucks because the brand supports ESG goals and talks about how they treat their workers.




Why Is It Crucial for Companies to Define Their Brand Personality?
It is important for companies to accurately define their brand personalities so they resonate with the appropriate consumers. This is because a brand personality results in increased brand equity and defines the brand's attitude in the marketplace. It is also the key factor of any successful marketing campaign. 




What Are the Different Types of Brand Personalities?
A company's brand personality elicits an emotional response in a specific consumer segment, with the intention of inciting positive actions that benefit the firm. There are five main types of brand personalities with common traits. They are excitement, sincerity, ruggedness, competence, and sophistication. Customers are more likely to purchase a brand if its personality is similar to their own. 




What Is the Difference Between Brand Personality and Imagery?
A company's brand personality should not be confused with its imagery. A company's imagery is a series of creative assets that communicate the tangible benefits of its brand. Conversely, a firm's brand personality directly creates an emotional association in the mind of an ideal consumer group. Imagery is one part of how a company communicates its brand personality.


   The Bottom Line  

Brand personality is a set of human characteristics that are attributed to a brand name. Common ones are excitement, sincerity, ruggedness, competence, and sophistication. Brand personality is different than its imagery, though these creative assets should reflect a company's brand personality.



A company's brand should appeal to its target customers. When companies define and display their brand personality, customers who see themselves as having that personality can identify with the brand.
What Is Brand Recognition?  

The term brand recognition refers to the ability of consumers to identify a specific brand by its attributes over another one. Brand recognition is a concept used in advertising and marketing. It is considered successful when people are able to recognize a brand through visual or auditory cues such as logos, slogans, packaging, colors, or jingles rather than being explicitly exposed to a company's name. Companies often conduct market research to determine the success of their brand recognition strategies.





Key Takeaways

Brand recognition is the ability of consumers to recognize an identifying characteristic of one company versus a competitor.A company is perceived as having successful brand recognition when consumers are able to recognize the firm through visual or auditory cues alone, even without hearing the company's name.A company's marketing department will come up with the cues that are then marketed to customers.Cues that can lead to brand recognition may come in the form of names, marks, logos, and jingles.


   How Brand Recognition Works  

A brand is a name, logo, word, mark, tagline, or any other identifying characteristic that separates a company's product or service from others on the market. A brand is among the most important assets that a company has because it represents the company and helps keep the company in consumers' minds. Brands are normally protected using trademarks.



Companies invest a lot of time and money to create brand recognition. In order for brand recognition to work, companies need to find a way to help consumers recall their brand. A company's marketing department often comes up with different cues—both audio and visual cues—to help set their brand apart in the marketplace. They can do this by using logos, colors, marks, or jingles. Logos like the Nike (NKE) swoosh and the Golden Arches from McDonald's (MCD), and taglines like "They're magically delicious" from Lucky Charms cereal and "I'm a big kid now" from Huggies Pull-Ups diapers all help further brand recognition.



To measure brand recognition and the effectiveness of promotional and marketing campaigns, many companies perform market research through experiments on focus or study groups. Both aided and unaided recall tests may be used in these groups. With similar products, brand recognition often results in higher sales, even if both brands are of equal quality.



Brand recognition is often paired with brand recall, which is why it's also known as aided brand recall. Aided brand recall is the ability of customers to think of a brand name from their memory when told to think of a category of products. Brand recall tends to indicate a stronger connection to a brand than brand recognition. For example, people tend to think of more brand names when prompted by a product than by a category. Brand recall is also called unaided recall or spontaneous recall.






Brand recognition is also referred to as aided brand recall, meaning the capacity of customers to remember a brand name off the top of their heads when told to consider a specific product category.


   Special Considerations  

Small businesses and big corporations can do much to build and maintain their brand recognition. This ensures they remain top of mind with customers who are ready to buy their products or services. Here are a few ways they can do this:



Customers tend to remember brands that reach them on a personal or emotional level, so a company may use a unique, touching, or heartfelt story that lets customers know why it's in business.
Another way to build and maintain brand recognition is to provide exemplary customer service. Customers are more likely to recommend and buy products from a company they believe values their patronage.
Businesses should also aim to exceed their customers' expectations and educate them at the same time. Being known as an expert in a certain field or being able to relate to customers and how they use the products and services they buy goes a long way in ensuring brand loyalty. One way to accomplish this is through app development, email newsletters, or blogs that ensure new and existing customers keep your company in mind first.
Small businesses and large companies can use social media to make sure their names, products, and services are in constant circulation. Of course, a company's logo or visual theme should be used in all communications.






Brand awareness, which leads to brand recognition, is the extent to which people know that a brand exists.


   Brand Recognitions vs. Brand Awareness  

Brand recognition shouldn't be confused with brand awareness. Although they may seem similar, they're not. But they are related. Remember, brand recognition is the visual and audio cues people use to identify a brand. Brand awareness, on the other hand, is the knowledge that a brand exists. This is the extent to which the general public knows that a company, along with its products and services are available on the market. Brand awareness is what leads to brand recognition. For instance, if people didn't know about the Apple (AAPL) brand, they probably wouldn't recognize and associate the famous Apple logo with its products.
What Is BRICS?  

The term BRICS is an acronym for Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. The coin was initially created as BRIC (without South Africa) by Goldman Sachs economist Jim O'Neill in 2001, claiming that by 2050 the four BRIC economies would come to dominate the global economy. South Africa was added to the list in 2010. The BRICS countries operate as a loose organization that seeks to further economic cooperation amongst member nations and increase their economic and political standing in the world.





Key Takeaways

BRICS is an acronym that refers to Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa.Goldman Sachs created the term BRIC in 2001 for Brazil, Russia, India, and China under the belief that these economies would dominate global growth by 2050.The BRICS nations offered a source of foreign expansion for firms and strong returns for institutional investors.The organization seeks to deepen economic cooperation between the member countries and stand in contrast to the Western sphere of power.Saudi Arabia, Iran, Ethiopia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, and Argentina were invited to join BRICS in 2023.






   Understanding BRICS  

Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa ranked among the world's fastest-growing emerging market economies for years, thanks to low labor costs, favorable demographics, and abundant natural resources at a time of a global commodities boom.



The group has a set of joint priorities, which include:



Working on resolving regional problems, such as the Iranian nuclear program and conflicts in Libya, Syria, and Afghanistan
Tackling financial and economic issues like reforms at the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Establishing the BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism



The Goldman Sachs thesis didn't suggest that these countries would become a political alliance like the European Union (EU) or even a formal trading association. Instead, the investment banking firm said these countries have the potential to form a powerful economic bloc, even acknowledging that its forecasts were optimistic and dependent on significant policy assumptions.



Still, the implication was that economic power would bring political power, and indeed leaders from BRICS countries regularly attended summits together and often acted in concert with each others’ interests.






According to BRICS, the GDP of their nations accounts for 31.5% of global GDP, compared to 30.7% of the G7 nations.


   History of BRICS  

BRICS sees itself as a counter to the traditional Western-led global order, with many member states seeing the organization as a way to boost their influence around the world. Still, many of the nations disagree on fundamental factors, such as transparency and a balanced approach, which may hinder the growth of the group.



The group operates as an informal grouping of nations that meet annually at the BRICS convention, where members and heads of state seek to further economic cooperation between the nations. The head of state of a member nation acts as the chairman of the group, rotating once a year. Informal meetings began in 2006 but the group's first official meeting was on June 16, 2009, in Yekaterinburg, Russia.



Because of the economic power of the nations, as well as the idea of disentangling from the West to a degree, BRICS claims that over 40 countries seek to join the group. The BRICs announced that it invited additional countries to join the group at its 2023 summit. Full membership will be granted to Argentina, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates on Jan. 1, 2024.



Some of the other key developments of the group include:



The development of the New Development Bank. The institution was established in 2015 to provide emerging markets and developing countries with funding for infrastructure and sustainable development projects.Establishing the BRICS Parliamentary Forum, which is designed to "strengthen and promote contacts at the leadership level of chambers, committees and groups of parliamentarians." This body is responsible for inter-parliamentary exchanges and consultations along with the development of new mechanisms for inter-parliamentary cooperation.






The BRICS thesis became conventional market wisdom in the aughts. But there were always skeptics, including some who claimed the phrase was Goldman marketing hype for its BRICS-focused investment fund.


   Goldman Sachs' BRIC Thesis  

In 2001, Goldman Sach's O’Neill noted that while global gross domestic product (GDP) was set to rise 1.7% in 2002, BRIC nations were forecasted to grow more quickly than the Group of Seven (G7), which are the world's seven most advanced global economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the U.S. In the paper "Building Better Economic BRICs," O'Neill outlined his view of the potential of the BRIC nations.



In 2003, O'Neill's Goldman colleagues Dominic Wilson and Roopa Purushothaman followed up with their report "Dreaming with BRICs: The Path to 2050.” The two authors claimed that by 2050, the BRIC cluster could grow to a size larger than the G6 (the G7 minus Russia), and the world’s largest economies would therefore look drastically different in four decades. That is, the largest global economic powers no longer would be the richest, according to income per capita.



In 2007, Goldman published another report, "BRICs and Beyond," that focused on BRIC's growth potential, the environmental impact of these growing economies, and the sustainability of their rise. The report also outlined a Next 11, a term for 11 emerging economies, in relationship to the BRIC nations, as well as the ascendancy of new global markets.


   Closure of Goldman's BRICS Fund  

Growth in the BRICS economies slowed down after the global financial crisis and the oil price collapse that began in 2014. By 2015, the BRICS acronym no longer looked like an attractive investment venue, and funds aimed at these economies either shut down or merged with other investment vehicles.



Goldman Sachs merged its BRICS investment fund, which was focused on generating returns from these economies, with the broader Emerging Markets Equity Fund. The fund lost 88% of its assets from a 2010 peak.



In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Goldman Sachs stated that it did not expect "significant asset growth in the foreseeable future" in the BRICS fund. Per a Bloomberg report, the fund lost 21% in five years.




What Countries Are in BRICS?
The BRICS nations are Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. In 2023, the group invited Argentina, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates to join. Full membership is expected to be granted as of Jan. 1, 2024.




Why Was BRICS Created?
BRICS was created by Goldman Sachs as an analytical grouping of emerging market countries that witnessed strong economic growth and were poised to dominate the world economy by 2050. These countries now operate as a loose organization, seeking to further economic ties with each other.




What Is the Main Goal of BRICS?
The main goals of BRICS are cooperation, development, and influence in international affairs. Goals include economic cooperation, development financing, political coordination, social and cultural exchanges, technology and innovation, sustainable development, and peace and security.


   The Bottom Line  

BRICS is an informal grouping of emerging market countries that seek to establish deeper ties between their nations and cooperate on economic expansion, including trade. The countries act as a balance against traditional Western influence, seeking to depend on each other for growing influence in the world.
What Is BRICS?  

The term BRICS is an acronym for Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. The coin was initially created as BRIC (without South Africa) by Goldman Sachs economist Jim O'Neill in 2001, claiming that by 2050 the four BRIC economies would come to dominate the global economy. South Africa was added to the list in 2010. The BRICS countries operate as a loose organization that seeks to further economic cooperation amongst member nations and increase their economic and political standing in the world.





Key Takeaways

BRICS is an acronym that refers to Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa.Goldman Sachs created the term BRIC in 2001 for Brazil, Russia, India, and China under the belief that these economies would dominate global growth by 2050.The BRICS nations offered a source of foreign expansion for firms and strong returns for institutional investors.The organization seeks to deepen economic cooperation between the member countries and stand in contrast to the Western sphere of power.Saudi Arabia, Iran, Ethiopia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, and Argentina were invited to join BRICS in 2023.






   Understanding BRICS  

Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa ranked among the world's fastest-growing emerging market economies for years, thanks to low labor costs, favorable demographics, and abundant natural resources at a time of a global commodities boom.



The group has a set of joint priorities, which include:



Working on resolving regional problems, such as the Iranian nuclear program and conflicts in Libya, Syria, and Afghanistan
Tackling financial and economic issues like reforms at the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Establishing the BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism



The Goldman Sachs thesis didn't suggest that these countries would become a political alliance like the European Union (EU) or even a formal trading association. Instead, the investment banking firm said these countries have the potential to form a powerful economic bloc, even acknowledging that its forecasts were optimistic and dependent on significant policy assumptions.



Still, the implication was that economic power would bring political power, and indeed leaders from BRICS countries regularly attended summits together and often acted in concert with each others’ interests.






According to BRICS, the GDP of their nations accounts for 31.5% of global GDP, compared to 30.7% of the G7 nations.


   History of BRICS  

BRICS sees itself as a counter to the traditional Western-led global order, with many member states seeing the organization as a way to boost their influence around the world. Still, many of the nations disagree on fundamental factors, such as transparency and a balanced approach, which may hinder the growth of the group.



The group operates as an informal grouping of nations that meet annually at the BRICS convention, where members and heads of state seek to further economic cooperation between the nations. The head of state of a member nation acts as the chairman of the group, rotating once a year. Informal meetings began in 2006 but the group's first official meeting was on June 16, 2009, in Yekaterinburg, Russia.



Because of the economic power of the nations, as well as the idea of disentangling from the West to a degree, BRICS claims that over 40 countries seek to join the group. The BRICs announced that it invited additional countries to join the group at its 2023 summit. Full membership will be granted to Argentina, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates on Jan. 1, 2024.



Some of the other key developments of the group include:



The development of the New Development Bank. The institution was established in 2015 to provide emerging markets and developing countries with funding for infrastructure and sustainable development projects.Establishing the BRICS Parliamentary Forum, which is designed to "strengthen and promote contacts at the leadership level of chambers, committees and groups of parliamentarians." This body is responsible for inter-parliamentary exchanges and consultations along with the development of new mechanisms for inter-parliamentary cooperation.






The BRICS thesis became conventional market wisdom in the aughts. But there were always skeptics, including some who claimed the phrase was Goldman marketing hype for its BRICS-focused investment fund.


   Goldman Sachs' BRIC Thesis  

In 2001, Goldman Sach's O’Neill noted that while global gross domestic product (GDP) was set to rise 1.7% in 2002, BRIC nations were forecasted to grow more quickly than the Group of Seven (G7), which are the world's seven most advanced global economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the U.S. In the paper "Building Better Economic BRICs," O'Neill outlined his view of the potential of the BRIC nations.



In 2003, O'Neill's Goldman colleagues Dominic Wilson and Roopa Purushothaman followed up with their report "Dreaming with BRICs: The Path to 2050.” The two authors claimed that by 2050, the BRIC cluster could grow to a size larger than the G6 (the G7 minus Russia), and the world’s largest economies would therefore look drastically different in four decades. That is, the largest global economic powers no longer would be the richest, according to income per capita.



In 2007, Goldman published another report, "BRICs and Beyond," that focused on BRIC's growth potential, the environmental impact of these growing economies, and the sustainability of their rise. The report also outlined a Next 11, a term for 11 emerging economies, in relationship to the BRIC nations, as well as the ascendancy of new global markets.


   Closure of Goldman's BRICS Fund  

Growth in the BRICS economies slowed down after the global financial crisis and the oil price collapse that began in 2014. By 2015, the BRICS acronym no longer looked like an attractive investment venue, and funds aimed at these economies either shut down or merged with other investment vehicles.



Goldman Sachs merged its BRICS investment fund, which was focused on generating returns from these economies, with the broader Emerging Markets Equity Fund. The fund lost 88% of its assets from a 2010 peak.



In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Goldman Sachs stated that it did not expect "significant asset growth in the foreseeable future" in the BRICS fund. Per a Bloomberg report, the fund lost 21% in five years.




What Countries Are in BRICS?
The BRICS nations are Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. In 2023, the group invited Argentina, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates to join. Full membership is expected to be granted as of Jan. 1, 2024.




Why Was BRICS Created?
BRICS was created by Goldman Sachs as an analytical grouping of emerging market countries that witnessed strong economic growth and were poised to dominate the world economy by 2050. These countries now operate as a loose organization, seeking to further economic ties with each other.




What Is the Main Goal of BRICS?
The main goals of BRICS are cooperation, development, and influence in international affairs. Goals include economic cooperation, development financing, political coordination, social and cultural exchanges, technology and innovation, sustainable development, and peace and security.


   The Bottom Line  

BRICS is an informal grouping of emerging market countries that seek to establish deeper ties between their nations and cooperate on economic expansion, including trade. The countries act as a balance against traditional Western influence, seeking to depend on each other for growing influence in the world.
What is a Breadth Indicator?  

Breadth indicators are mathematical formulas that measure the number of advancing and declining stocks, and/or their volume, to calculate the participation in a stock index's price movements. By evaluating how many stocks are increasing or decreasing in price, and how much volume these stocks are trading, breadth indicators help in confirming stock index price trends, or can warn of impending price reversals.





Key Takeaways


Breadth indicators don't typically provide trade signals on their own, but rather provide an overall picture of the health on an index.
Typically, when a breadth indicator is rising, and the stock index is rising, it shows there is strong participation in the price rise. This means the price rise is more likely to sustain itself. 
The same concept applies to a falling breadth indicator and a falling stock index value.
When the breadth indicator and a stock index diverge, that may forewarn of a reversal. Fewer stocks are moving in the stock index's direction. This means the stock index could be setting up to change direction.



   Calculating Breadth Indicators  

There are a number of breadth indicators, each with their own formula and method of calculation. Some breadth indicators are cumulative, with each day's value added or subtracted from the prior value. Others are non-cumulative, with each day or period providing its own data point.



One of the simplest breath indicators is the Advance/Decline Line. It's a cumulative indicator where net advances (number of advancing stocks - number of declining stocks) is added or subtracted from the prior value.


   What Does a Breadth Indicator Tell You?  

Breadth indicators provide traders and investors with a view of an overall market. The stock "market" is typically examined using stock indexes.



For example, the S&P 500 index's Advance/Decline Line is a cumulative guide for whether more stocks are rising or falling over time. This calculation shows the overall investor sentiment in all the stocks within the index.



Breadth indicators are primarily used for two purposes:



Market Sentiment: Breadth indicators can help determine if a market is more likely to rise or fall.
Trend Strength: Breadth indicators can help determine the strength of a bullish or bearish trend.



There are many different breadth indicators that traders and investors can use in their analysis.



Some other popular breadth indicators, aside from the Advance/Decline Line, include:



On Balance Volume which focuses on adding or subtracting volume based on whether a stock or index closed above or below the prior closing price.
McClellan Summation Index
Arms Index (TRIN) which looks at the ratio of advancing to declining stocks, divided by the ratio of advancing to declining volume.
Chaikin Oscillator which oscillates based on both volume and price moves.
Up/Down Volume Ratio which is rising stock volume divided by falling stock volume.
Up/Down Volume Spread which is up volume minus down volume.



There are many other breadth indicators.



Traders and investors may use different breadth indicators for different purposes. For example, On Balance Volume looks at buying and selling pressure from a volume standpoint rather than just looking purely at price, while the McClellan Summation Index involves a more complex formula that generates actual buy and sell signals.



Some breadth indicators, such as the Chaikin Oscillator and On Balance Volume, can be applied to individual stocks or even other assets. Other breadth indicators—such as the Advance/Decline Line or Arms Index—are only calculated based on indexes.



Traders use market breadth indicators in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis, such as chart patterns and technical indicators, to maximize the odds of success. For example, if the Advance/Decline Line starts to drop while the S&P 500 is still rising, traders will watch closely for the S&P 500 to break below a rising trendline, break below support, or for technical indicators to turn bearish. This will help confirm that the price may be starting to decline, and therefore the trader can exit longs or initiate short positions.


   Breadth Indicator Example  

The following chart shows two breadth indicators, On Balance Volume and the Force Index, on a chart of the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The Force Index (at the bottom) shows a strong bearish sentiment in early February during the market drop and relatively weak bullish sentiment throughout the entire period. On Balance Volume shows bullish volume during the February and March recovery and moderate volume in the months following. These indicators suggest that the market is relatively neutral between April and June.


   The Difference Between Breadth Indicators and Technical Indicators  

Breadth indicators are a subset within the larger field of technical indicators. While breadth indicators attempt to gauge participation and strength in a stock or index's movements, technical indicators have a far larger purpose. Technical indicators can be used to analyze volume or price, generate trade signals, or define support and resistance.


   Limitation of Using Breadth Indicators  

Breadth indicators won't always forewarn of a reversal. Nor will they always confirm a price move, even though the price keeps moving in the same direction.



Most breadth indicators are prone to some situational anomalies. While traders typically look for volume to increase as prices move further, this doesn't always happen. Trends can last a very long time on decreasing volume or even decreasing stock participation, which will lead to the breadth indicators diverging but not necessarily resulting in a price reversal.



Certain breadth indicators may also generate odd readings because of their calculation method. On Balance Volume may jump or decline significantly, for example, if there is a huge volume day but the price finishes only marginally higher or lower. The price barely moved, but the indicator could move a great deal.
What Is a Break-Even Price?  

A break-even price is the amount of money, or change in value, for which an asset must be sold to cover the costs of acquiring and owning it. It can also refer to the amount of money for which a product or service must be sold to cover the costs of manufacturing or providing it.



In options trading, the break-even price is the price in the underlying asset at which investors can choose to exercise or dispose of the contract without incurring a loss.





Key Takeaways

A break-even price describes a change of value that corresponds to just covering one's initial investment or cost.For an options contract, the break-even price is that level in an underlying security when it covers an option's premium.In manufacturing, the break-even price is the price at which the cost to manufacture a product is equal to its sale price. Break-even pricing is often used as a competitive strategy to gain market share, but a break-even price strategy can lead to the perception that a product is of low quality.


   Understanding Break-Even Prices  

Break-even prices can be applied to almost any transaction. For example, the break-even price of a house would be the sale price at which the owner could cover the home's purchase price, interest paid on the mortgage, hazard insurance, property taxes, maintenance, improvements, closing costs, and real estate sales commissions. At this price, the homeowner would not see any profit, but also would not lose any money.



Break-even price is also used in managerial economics to determine the costs of scaling a product's manufacturing capabilities. Typically, an increase in product manufacturing volumes translates to a decrease in break-even prices because costs are spread over more product quantity.



Traders also use break-even prices to understand where a securities price must go to make a trade profitable after costs, fees, and taxes have been taken into account.


   Break-Even Price Formula  

The break-even price is mathematically the amount of monetary receipts that equal the amount of monetary contributions. With sales matching costs, the related transaction is said to be break-even, sustaining no losses and earning no profits in the process. To formulate the break-even price, a person simply uses the amount of the total cost of a business or financial activity as the target price to sell a product, service, or asset, or trade a financial instrument with the goal to break even.



For example, the break-even price for selling a product would be the sum of the unit's fixed cost and variable cost incurred to make the product. Thus if it costs $20 total to produce a good, if it sells for $20 exactly, it is the break-even price. Another way to compute the total breakeven for a firm is to take the gross profit margin divided by total fixed costs:



Business break-even = gross profit margin / fixed costs



​​For an options contract, such as a call or a put, the break-even price is that level in the underlying security that fully covers the option's premium (or cost). Also known as the break-even point (BEP), it can be represented by the following formulas for a call or put, respectively:



BEPcall = strike price + premium paidBEPput = strike price - premium paid


   Break-Even Price Strategy  

Break-even price as a business strategy is most common in new commercial ventures, especially if a product or service is not highly differentiated from those of competitors. By offering a relatively low break-even price without any margin markup, a business may have a better chance to gather more market share, even though this is achieved at the expense of making no profits at the time.



Being a cost leader and selling at the break-even price requires a business to have the financial resources to sustain periods of zero earnings. However, after establishing market dominance, a business may begin to raise prices when weak competitors can no longer undermine its higher-pricing efforts.



The following formula can be used to estimate a firm's break-even point:



Fixed costs / (price - variable costs) = break-even point in units



The break-even point is equal to the total fixed costs divided by the difference between the unit price and variable costs.


   Break-Even Price Effects  

There are both positive and negative effects of transacting at the break-even price. In addition to gaining market shares and driving away existing competitions, pricing at break-even also helps set an entry barrier for new competitors to enter the market. Eventually, this leads to a controlling market position, due to reduced competition.



However, a product or service's comparably low price may create the perception that the product or service may not be as valuable, which could become an obstacle to raising prices later on. In the event that others engage in a price war, pricing at break-even would not be enough to help gain market control. With racing-to-the-bottom pricing, losses can be incurred when break-even prices give way to even lower prices.






Both marginalist and Marxist theories of the firm predict that due to competition, firms will always be under pressure to sell their goods at the break-even price, implying no room for long-run profits.


   Examples of Break-Even Prices  

Suppose firm ABC manufactures widgets. The total costs for making a widget per unit can be broken down as follows:









Widget Cost




Direct Labor
$5


Materials
$2


Manufacture
$3






Hence, the break-even price to recover costs for ABC is $10 per widget.



Now suppose that ABC becomes ambitious and is interested in making 10,000 such widgets. To do so, it will have to scale operations and make significant capital investments in factories and labor. The firm invests $200,000 in fixed costs, including building a factory and buying machines for manufacturing.



The firm's break-even price for each widget can be calculated as follows:



(Fixed costs) / (number of units) + price per unit or 200,000 / 10,000 + 10 = 30



$30 is the break-even price for the firm to manufacture 10,000 widgets. The break-even price to manufacture 20,000 widgets is $20 using the same formula.


  Example: Break-Even Price for an Options Contract  

For a call option with a strike price of $100 and a premium paid of $2.50, the break-even price that the stock would have to get to is $102.50; anything above that level would be pure profit, anything below would imply a net loss.




How Can Ordinary Individuals Use Break-Even Prices?
The break-even price covers the cost or initial investment into something. For example, if you sell your house for exactly what you still need to pay you would leave with zero debt but no profit. Break-even price calculations can look different depending on the specific industry or scenario, however, the overall definition remains the same.




What Is the Break-even Price for an Options Contract?
In general, the break-even price for an options contract will be the strike price plus the cost of the premium. For a 20-strike call option that cost $2, the break-even price would be $22. For a put option with otherwise same details, the break-even price would instead be $18.




Why Should Taxes and Fees Be Included in a Break-Even Analysis?
A gross break-even point is often not entirely correct for figuring out exactly where you would break even on a trade, investment, or project. This is because taxes, fees, and other charges are often involved that must be taken into account. For instance, if you sell a stock for a $10 profit subject to long-term capital gains tax, you will have to pay $1.50 in taxes. If the commission was $1 for the trade, that also must be noted. Inflation, too, is something to consider, especially for long-term holdings.
What Is a Break-Even Analysis?  

Break-even analysis entails calculating and examining the margin of safety for an entity based on the revenues collected and associated costs. In other words, the analysis shows how many sales it takes to pay for the cost of doing business. Analyzing different price levels relating to various levels of demand, the break-even analysis determines what level of sales are necessary to cover the company's total fixed costs. A demand-side analysis would give a seller significant insight into selling capabilities.





Key Takeaways:

Break-even analysis tells you how many units of a product must be sold to cover the fixed and variable costs of production.The break-even point is considered a measure of the margin of safety.Break-even analysis is used broadly, from stock and options trading to corporate budgeting for various projects.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How Break-Even Analysis Works  

Calculating the break-even analysis is useful in determining the level of production or a targeted desired sales mix. The study is for a company's management use only, as the metric and calculations are not used by external parties, such as investors, regulators, or financial institutions. This type of analysis involves a calculation of the break-even point (BEP). The break-even point is calculated by dividing the total fixed costs of production by the price per individual unit, less the variable costs of production. Fixed costs are costs that remain the same regardless of how many units are sold.



Break-even analysis looks at the level of fixed costs relative to the profit earned by each additional unit produced and sold. In general, a company with lower fixed costs will have a lower break-even point of sale. For example, a company with $0 of fixed costs will automatically have broken even upon the sale of the first product assuming variable costs do not exceed sales revenue.






   Special Considerations  

Although investors are not particularly interested in an individual company's break-even analysis on their production, they may use the calculation to determine at what price they will break even on a trade or investment. The calculation is useful when trading in or creating a strategy to buy options or a fixed-income security product.


  Contribution Margin  

The concept of break-even analysis is concerned with the contribution margin of a product. The contribution margin is the excess between the selling price of the product and the total variable costs. For example, if an item sells for $100, the total fixed costs are $25 per unit, and the total variable costs are $60 per unit, the contribution margin of the product is $40 ($100 - $60). This $40 reflects the amount of revenue collected to cover the remaining fixed costs, which are excluded when figuring the contribution margin.


  Calculations for Break-Even Analysis  

The calculation of break-even analysis may use two equations. In the first calculation, divide the total fixed costs by the unit contribution margin. In the example above, assume the value of the entire fixed costs is $20,000. With a contribution margin of $40, the break-even point is 500 units ($20,000 divided by $40). Upon the sale of 500 units, the payment of all fixed costs are complete, and the company will report a net profit or loss of $0.



Alternatively, the calculation for a break-even point in sales dollars happens by dividing the total fixed costs by the contribution margin ratio. The contribution margin ratio is the contribution margin per unit divided by the sale price.



Returning to the example above, the contribution margin ratio is 40% ($40 contribution margin per item divided by $100 sale price per item). Therefore, the break-even point in sales dollars is $50,000 ($20,000 total fixed costs divided by 40%). Confirm this figured by multiplying the break-even in units (500) by the sale price ($100), which equals $50,000.


   Users of Break-Even Analysis  

Break-even analysis is used by a wide range of entities, from entrepreneurs, financial analysts, businesses and government agencies.



Entrepreneurs: Break-Even analysis is useful for entrepreneurs and founders because it helps determine the minimum level of sales needed to cover costs. This is critical for the early stage of a business.Financial Analysts: These professionals use break-even analysis as a profitability and risk metric. Financial Analysts tie break-even analysis into their valuations and recommendations on a business.Investors: Investors conduct break-even analysis to determine the financial performance of companies. With this information they make more informed decisions on their asset selections.Stock and Option Traders: Break-even analysis is crucial for stock and option traders because they need to know how much money is needed to cover their expenses for each transaction they make. This analysis help them determine how much money to allocate a transaction and which assets would generate the higher profits for them.Businesses: A broad range of businesses use break-even analysis to paint a better picture of their cost structure, pricing, as well as their operational efficiencies.Government Agencies: Government agencies need to understand the financial viability of projects and programs and they use break-even analysis to determine this. It answers the question: What is the minimum level of sales or revenue required to cover costs?


   The Importance of Break-Even Analysis to Businesses  

There are several reasons why break-even analysis is important to businesses. They are as follows:



Pricing: Businesses get a comprehensible perspective on their cost structure with break-even analysis. With that understanding, businesses can set prices for their products that not only cover their fixed and variable costs but provide a reasonable profit margin as well.Decision-Making: When it comes to new products and services, operational expansion or increase production, businesses use break-even analysis to help them make informed decisions surrounding those activities.Cost Reduction: Break-even analysis helps businesses find areas where they can reduce costs to increase profitability.Performance Metric: Break-even analysis is a financial performance tool and helps businesses ascertain where they are when it comes to achieving their short, medium and long term goals.


   Limitations of Break-Even Analysis  

Break-even analysis is a useful tool. However, like any tool, there are limitations to it. Break-even analysis assumes that the fixed and variable costs remain constant over time. In reality, this is usually not the case. Costs may change due to factors such as inflation, changes in technology, or changes in market conditions.



Another limitation is that Break-even analysis makes some oversimplified assumptions about the relationships between costs, revenue, and production levels. For example, it assumes that there is a linear relationship between costs and production. This is not always true. Also, break-even analysis ignores external factors such as competition, market demand, and changing consumer preferences, which can have a significant impact on a businesses' top line.




Why is Break-Even Analysis Important to Stock and Option Traders?
Stock and option traders need break-even analysis to facilitate several functions. Firstly, they use break-even analysis to help them figure out at which point their stock and option positions become profitable. Also, break-even analysis help stock and option traders manage their risks. Through knowing their break-even value, stock and option traders can set stop loss levels that mitigate their losses if the trade moves against them.Another reason why break-even analysis is important to stock and option traders is that break-even analysis provides insight into their positions' profitability. By determining the breakeven point for their positions, stock and option traders can gauge the potential risk-reward ratio and make informed decisions as to whether to pursue a stock or option trade.




What are the Components of Break-Even Analysis?
There are 5 components of Break Even Analysis. They are: fixed costs, variable costs, revenue, the contribution margin and the break-even point. Fixed costs entails expenses that do not vary with changes in the level of production or sales. However, variable costs do change with the level of production or sales.Revenue represents total income generated from the sale of goods or services by an individual or business. The contribution margin is the difference between revenue and variable costs. The final component of break-even analysis, the break-even point, is the level of sales where total revenue equals total costs. At this point no profit is made and no loss is incurred.




Why is the Contribution Margin Important in Break-Even Analysis?
The contribution margin's importance lies in the fact that it represents the amount of revenue required to cover a business' fixed costs and contribute to its profit. Through the contribution margin calculation, a business can determine the break-even point and where it can begin earning a profit.Also, by understanding the contribution margin, businesses can make informed decisions about the pricing of their products and their levels of production. Businesses can even develop cost management strategies to improve efficiencies.




How Do Businesses Use the Break-Even Point in Break-Even Analysis?
The break-even point component in break-even analysis is utilized by businesses in various ways. The break-even point helps businesses with pricing decisions, sales forecasting, cost management and growth strategies. With the break-even point, businesses can figure out the minimum price they need to charge to cover their costs. When this point is measured against the market price, businesses can improve their pricing strategies.


   The Bottom Line  

Break-even analysis is a financial tool that is widely used by businesses as well as stock and option traders. For businesses, break-even analysis is essential in determining the minimum sales volume required to cover total costs and break even. It helps businesses make informed decisions about pricing strategies, cost management, and operations.



In stock and option trading, break-even analysis is important in determining the minimum price movements required to cover trading costs and make a profit. Traders can use break-even analysis to set realistic profit targets, manage risk, and make informed trading decisions. It is an essential tool for investors and financial analysts in determining the financial performance of companies and making informed decisions about investments. By understanding the break-even point, investors can make profitable investment decisions and manage risks effectively. Overall, break-even analysis is a critical tool in the financial world for businesses, stock and option traders, investors, financial analysts and even government agencies.
What Is the Breakeven Point (BEP)?  

The breakeven point (breakeven price) for a trade or investment is determined by comparing the market price of an asset to the original cost; the breakeven point is reached when the two prices are equal.



In corporate accounting, the breakeven point (BEP) formula is determined by dividing the total fixed costs associated with production by the revenue per individual unit minus the variable costs per unit. In this case, fixed costs refer to those that do not change depending upon the number of units sold. Put differently, the breakeven point is the production level at which total revenues for a product equal total expenses.





Key Takeaways

In accounting, the breakeven point is calculated by dividing the fixed costs of production by the price per unit minus the variable costs of production.The breakeven point is the level of production at which the costs of production equal the revenues for a product.In investing, the breakeven point is said to be achieved when the market price of an asset is the same as its original cost.A breakeven analysis can help with finding missing expenses, limiting decisions based on emotions, establishing goals, securing funding, and setting appropriate prices.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Breakeven Points (BEPs)  

Breakeven points (BEPs) can be applied to a wide variety of contexts. For instance, the breakeven point in a property would be how much money the homeowner would need to generate from a sale to exactly offset the net purchase price, inclusive of closing costs, taxes, fees, insurance, and interest paid on the mortgage—as well as costs related to maintenance and home improvements. At that price, the homeowner would exactly break even, neither making nor losing any money.



Traders also apply BEPs to trades, figuring out what price a security must reach to exactly cover all costs associated with a trade, including taxes, commissions, management fees, and so on. A company’s breakeven point is likewise calculated by taking fixed costs and dividing that figure by the gross profit margin percentage.


   Benefits of a Breakeven Analysis  

A breakeven analysis can help with many things, including:



Finding missing expenses. A breakeven analysis can help uncover expenses that you otherwise might not have seen coming. Your financial commitments will be determined at the end of a breakeven analysis, so there won’t be any surprises down the line.Limiting decisions based on emotions. Making business decisions based on emotions is rarely a good idea, but it can be hard to avoid. A breakeven analysis leaves you with hard facts, which is a better viewpoint from which to make business decisions.Setting goals. You will know exactly what kind of goals need to be met to make a profit after a breakeven analysis. This helps you set goals and work toward them.Securing funding. Often, you will need to use a breakeven analysis to secure funding and show investors the plan for your business.Pricing appropriately. A breakeven analysis will show you how to properly price your products from a business standpoint.


   Stock Market Breakeven Points  

Assume an investor buys Microsoft stock (MSFT) at $110. That is now their breakeven point on the trade. If the price moves above $110, the investor is making money. If the stock drops below $110, they are losing money.



If the price stays right at $110, they are at the BEP, because they are not making or losing anything.


   Options Trade Breakeven Points  
  Call Option Breakeven Point Example  

For options trading, the breakeven point is the market price that an underlying asset must reach for an option buyer to avoid a loss if they exercise the option. For a call buyer, the breakeven point is reached when the underlying asset is equal to the strike price plus the premium paid, while the BEP for a put position is reached when the underlying asset is equal to the strike price minus the premium paid. The breakeven point doesn’t typically factor in commission costs, although these fees could be included if desired.



Assume that an investor pays a $5 premium for an Apple stock (AAPL) call option with a $170 strike price. This means that the investor has the right to buy 100 shares of Apple at $170 per share at any time before the options expire. The breakeven point for the call option is the $170 strike price plus the $5 call premium, or $175. If the stock is trading below this, then the benefit of the option has not exceeded its cost.



If the stock is trading at $190 per share, the call owner buys Apple at $170 and sells the securities at the $190 market price. The profit is $190 minus the $175 breakeven price, or $15 per share.


  Put Option Breakeven Point Example  

Assume an investor pays a $4 premium for a Meta (formerly Facebook) put option with a $180 strike price. That allows the put buyer to sell 100 shares of Meta stock (META) at $180 per share until the option’s expiration date. The put position’s breakeven price is $180 minus the $4 premium, or $176. If the stock is trading above that price, then the benefit of the option has not exceeded its cost.



If the stock is trading at a market price of $170, for example, the trader has a profit of $6 (breakeven of $176 minus the current market price of $170). 


   Business Breakeven Points  

The breakeven formula for a business provides a dollar figure that is needed to break even. This can be converted into units by calculating the contribution margin (unit sale price less variable costs). Dividing the fixed costs by the contribution margin will provide how many units are needed to break even.


















Business Breakeven


=



Fixed Costs


Gross Profit Margin








\begin{aligned} &\text{Business Breakeven} = \frac { \text{Fixed Costs} }{ \text{Gross Profit Margin} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Business Breakeven=Gross Profit MarginFixed Costs​​



The information required to calculate a business’s BEP can be found in its financial statements. The first pieces of information required are the fixed costs and the gross margin percentage.



Assume a company has $1 million in fixed costs and a gross margin of 37%. Its breakeven point is $2.7 million ($1 million ÷ 0.37). In this breakeven point example, the company must generate $2.7 million in revenue to cover its fixed and variable costs. If it generates more sales, the company will have a profit. If it generates fewer sales, there will be a loss.



It is also possible to calculate how many units need to be sold to cover the fixed costs, which will result in the company breaking even. To do this, calculate the contribution margin, which is the sale price of the product less variable costs.



Assume a company has a $50 sale price for its product and variable costs of $10. The contribution margin is $40 ($50 - $10). Divide the fixed costs by the contribution margin to determine how many units the company has to sell: $1 million ÷ $40 = 25,000 units. If the company sells more units than this, it will show a profit. If it sells fewer, there will be a loss.




What is a breakeven point?
A breakeven point is used in multiple areas of business and finance. In accounting terms, it refers to the production level at which total production revenue equals total production costs. In investing, the breakeven point is the point at which the original cost equals the market price. Meanwhile, the breakeven point in options trading occurs when the market price of an underlying asset reaches the level at which a buyer will not incur a loss.




How do you calculate a breakeven point?
Generally, to calculate the breakeven point in business, fixed costs are divided by the gross profit margin. This produces a dollar figure that a company needs to break even. When it comes to stocks, for example, if a trader bought a stock at $200, and nine months later, it reached $200 again after falling from $250, it would have reached the breakeven point.




How do you calculate a breakeven point in options trading?
Consider the following example in which an investor pays a $10 premium for a stock call option, and the strike price is $100. The breakeven point would equal the $10 premium plus the $100 strike price, or $110. On the other hand, if this were applied to a put option, the breakeven point would be calculated as the $100 strike price minus the $10 premium paid, amounting to $90.


   The Bottom Line  

A breakeven point tells you what price level, yield, profit, or other metric must be achieved to not lose any money—or to make back an initial investment on a trade or project. Thus, if a project costs $1 million to undertake, it would need to generate $1 million in net profits before it breaks even.



Calculating breakeven points can be used when talking about a business or with traders in the market when they consider recouping losses or some initial outlay. Options traders also use the technique to figure out what price level the underlying price must be for a trade so that it expires in the money. A breakeven point calculation is often done by also including the costs of any fees, commissions, taxes, and in some cases, the effects of inflation.
What Is a Breakout?  

A breakout refers to when the price of an asset moves above a resistance area, or moves below a support area. Breakouts indicate the potential for the price to start trending in the breakout direction. For example, a breakout to the upside from a chart pattern could indicate the price will start trending higher. Breakouts that occur on high volume (relative to normal volume) show greater conviction which means the price is more likely to trend in that direction.





Key Takeaways

A breakout is when the price moves above a resistance level or moves below a support level.Breakouts can be subjective since not all traders will recognize or use the same support and resistance levels.Breakouts provide possible trading opportunities. A breakout to the upside signals traders to possible get long or cover short positions. A breakout to the downside signals traders to possibly get short or to sell long positions.Breakouts with relatively high volume show conviction and interest, and therefore the price is more likely to continue moving in the breakout direction.Breakouts on low relative volume are more prone to failure, so the price is less likely to trend in the breakout direction.






   What Does a Breakout Tell You?  

A breakout occurs because the price has been contained below a resistance level or above a support level, potentially for some time. The resistance or support level becomes a line in the sand which many traders use to set entry points or stop loss levels. When the price breaks through the support or resistance level traders waiting for the breakout jump in, and those who didn't want the price to breakout exit their positions to avoid larger losses.



This flurry of activity will often cause volume to rise, which shows lots of traders were interested in the breakout level. The higher than average volume helps confirm the breakout. If there is little volume on the breakout, the level may not have been significant to a lot of traders, or not enough traders felt convicted to place a trade near the level yet. These low volume breakouts are more likely to fail. In the case of an upside breakout, if it fails the price will fall back below resistance. In the case of a downside breakout, often called a breakdown, if it fails the price will rally back above the support level it broke below.



Breakouts are commonly associated with ranges or other chart patterns, including triangles, flags, wedges, and head-and-shoulders. These patterns are formed when the price moves in a specific way which results in well-defined support and/or resistance levels. Traders then watch these levels for breakouts. They may initiate long positions or exit short positions if the price breaks above resistance, or they may initiate short positions or exit long position if the price breaks below support.



Even after a high volume breakout, the price will often (but not always) retrace to the breakout point before moving in the breakout direction again. This is because short-term traders will often buy the initial breakout, but then attempt to sell quite quickly for a profit. This selling temporarily drives the price back to the breakout point. If the breakout is legitimate (not a failure), then the price should move back in the breakout direction. If it doesn't, it's a failed breakout.



Traders who use breakouts to initiate trades typically utilize stop loss orders in case the breakout fails. In the case of going long on an upside breakout, a stop loss is typically placed just below the resistance level. In the case of going short on a downside breakout, a stop loss is typically placed just above the support level that has been breached.


   Example of a Breakout  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart shows a large increase in volume, associated with an earnings release, as the price breaks through the resistance area of a triangle chart pattern. The breakout was so strong that it caused a price gap. The price continued to move higher and didn't retrace to the original breakout point. That is a sign of a very strong breakout.



Traders could have used the breakout to potentially enter long positions and/or get out of short positions. If entering long, a stop loss would be placed just below the resistance level of the triangle (or even below triangle support). Because the price had a large gaping breakout, this stop loss location may not be ideal. After the price continued to move higher following the breakout the stop loss could be trailed up in order to reduce risk or lock in a profit.


   The Difference Between a Breakout and a 52-Week High/Low  

A breakout could result in the price moving to a new 52-week high or low, if a breakout occurs near the prior high/low. But not all 52-week highs/lows are the result of a recent breakout. A 52-week high or low is simply the highest or lowest price seen over the last year. A breakout is a move above or below resistance.


   Limitations of Using Breakouts  

There are two main problems with utilizing breakouts. The main problem is failed breakouts. The price will often move just beyond resistance or support, luring in breakout traders. The price then reverses and doesn't continue moving in the breakout direction. This can happen multiple times before a real breakout occurs.



Support and resistance levels are also subjective. Not everyone cares about the same support and resistance levels. This is why watching volume helps. An increase in volume on the breakout shows that the level is important. Lack of volume shows the level is not important or that the big traders (who create big volume) aren't ready to participate yet.
What Was the Bretton Woods Agreement and System?  

The Bretton Woods Agreement was negotiated in July 1944 by delegates from 44 countries at the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference held in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire. Thus, the name “Bretton Woods Agreement.



Under the Bretton Woods System, gold was the basis for the U.S. dollar and other currencies were pegged to the U.S. dollar’s value. The Bretton Woods System effectively came to an end in the early 1970s when President Richard M. Nixon announced that the U.S. would no longer exchange gold for U.S. currency.


   The Bretton Woods Agreement and System Explained  

Approximately 730 delegates representing 44 countries met in Bretton Woods in July 1944 with the principal goals of creating an efficient foreign exchange system, preventing competitive devaluations of currencies, and promoting international economic growth. The Bretton Woods Agreement and System were central to these goals. The Bretton Woods Agreement also created two important organizations—the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. While the Bretton Woods System was dissolved in the 1970s, both the IMF and World Bank have remained strong pillars for the exchange of international currencies.



Though the Bretton Woods conference itself took place over just three weeks, the preparations for it had been going on for several years. The primary designers of the Bretton Woods System were the famous British economist John Maynard Keynes and American Chief International Economist of the U.S. Treasury Department Harry Dexter White. Keynes’ hope was to establish a powerful global central bank to be called the Clearing Union and issue a new international reserve currency called the bancor. White’s plan envisioned a more modest lending fund and a greater role for the U.S. dollar, rather than the creation of a new currency. In the end, the adopted plan took ideas from both, leaning more toward White’s plan.



It wasn't until 1958 that the Bretton Woods System became fully functional. Once implemented, its provisions called for the U.S. dollar to be pegged to the value of gold. Moreover, all other currencies in the system were then pegged to the U.S. dollar’s value. The exchange rate applied at the time set the price of gold at $35 an ounce.





Key Takeaways

The Bretton Woods Agreement and System created a collective international currency exchange regime that lasted from the mid-1940s to the early 1970s.The Bretton Woods System required a currency peg to the U.S. dollar which was in turn pegged to the price of gold. The Bretton Woods System collapsed in the 1970s but created a lasting influence on international currency exchange and trade through its development of the IMF and World Bank.


   Benefits of Bretton Woods Currency Pegging  

The Bretton Woods System included 44 countries. These countries were brought together to help regulate and promote international trade across borders. As with the benefits of all currency pegging regimes, currency pegs are expected to provide currency stabilization for trade of goods and services as well as financing.﻿﻿



All of the countries in the Bretton Woods System agreed to a fixed peg against the U.S. dollar with diversions of only 1% allowed. Countries were required to monitor and maintain their currency pegs which they achieved primarily by using their currency to buy or sell U.S. dollars as needed. The Bretton Woods System, therefore, minimized international currency exchange rate volatility which helped international trade relations. More stability in foreign currency exchange was also a factor for the successful support of loans and grants internationally from the World Bank.﻿﻿


   The IMF and World Bank  

The Bretton Woods Agreement created two Bretton Woods Institutions, the IMF and the World Bank. Formally introduced in December 1945 both institutions have withstood the test of time, globally serving as important pillars for international capital financing and trade activities.



The purpose of the IMF was to monitor exchange rates and identify nations that needed global monetary support. The World Bank, initially called the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, was established to manage funds available for providing assistance to countries that had been physically and financially devastated by World War II. In the twenty-first century, the IMF has 190 member countries and still continues to support global monetary cooperation. Tandemly, the World Bank helps to promote these efforts through its loans and grants to governments.


   The Bretton Woods System’s Collapse  

In 1971, concerned that the U.S. gold supply was no longer adequate to cover the number of dollars in circulation, President Richard M. Nixon devalued the U.S. dollar relative to gold. After a run on gold reserve, he declared a temporary suspension of the dollar’s convertibility into gold. By 1973 the Bretton Woods System had collapsed. Countries were then free to choose any exchange arrangement for their currency, except pegging its value to the price of gold. They could, for example, link its value to another country's currency, or a basket of currencies, or simply let it float freely and allow market forces to determine its value relative to other countries' currencies.



The Bretton Woods Agreement remains a significant event in world financial history. The two Bretton Woods Institutions it created in the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank played an important part in helping to rebuild Europe in the aftermath of World War II. Subsequently, both institutions have continued to maintain their founding goals while also transitioning to serve global government interests in the modern-day.
What Is Brexit?  

Brexit is a portmanteau of the words British and exit that was coined to refer to the U.K.'s decision in a June 23, 2016, referendum to leave the European Union (EU). Brexit took place at 11 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time, Jan. 31, 2020.



On Dec. 24, 2020, the U.K. and the EU struck a provisional free-trade agreement ensuring the free trade of goods without tariffs or quotas. However, key details of the future relationship remain uncertain, such as trade in services, which make up 80% of the U.K. economy. This prevented a no-deal Brexit, which would have been significantly damaging to the U.K. economy.



A provisional agreement was approved by the U.K. parliament on Jan. 1, 2021. It was approved by the European Parliament on April 28, 2021. While the deal, which is known as the Trade and Cooperation Agreement  (TCA), allows tariff- and quota-free trade in goods, U.K.-EU trade still faces customs checks. This means that commerce is not as smooth as when the U.K. was a member of the EU.





Key Takeaways

Brexit refers to Britain's exit from the European Union.Brexit took place on Jan. 31, 2020, following the June 2016 referendum in the country.The Leave side received 51.9% of the vote while the Remain side got 48.1%. Negotiations took place between the U.K. and the EU between 2017 and 2019 on the terms of a divorce deal.There was a transition period following Brexit that expired on Dec. 31, 2020. 












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   The Referendum  

The Leave side won the June 2016 referendum with 51.9% of the ballot, or 17.4 million votes, while Remain received 48.1% or 16.1 million votes. Voter turnout was 72.2%. The results were tallied on a U.K.-wide basis, but the overall figures conceal stark regional differences: 53.4% of English voters supported Brexit, compared to just 38% of Scottish voters.



Because England accounts for the vast majority of the U.K.'s population, support there swayed the result in Brexit's favor. If the vote was conducted only in Wales (where Leave voters also won), Scotland, and Northern Ireland, Brexit would have received less than 45% of the vote.



The result defied expectations and roiled global markets, causing the British pound to fall to its lowest level against the dollar in 30 years. Former Prime Minister David Cameron, who called the referendum and campaigned for the U.K. to remain in the EU, announced his resignation the following day. He was replaced as leader of the Conservative Party and Prime Minister by Theresa May in July 2016.






   The Article 50 Negotiating Period  

The process of leaving the EU formally began on March 29, 2017, when May triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The U.K. initially had two years from that date to negotiate a new relationship with the EU.



Following a snap election on June 8, 2017, May remained the country's leader. However, the Conservatives lost their outright majority in Parliament and agreed on a deal with the Euroskeptic Democratic Unionist Party. This later caused May some difficulty getting her Withdrawal Agreement passed in Parliament.



Talks began on June 19, 2017. Questions swirled around the process, partly because Britain's constitution is unwritten and because no country has left the EU using Article 50 before. A similar move, though, happened when Algeria left the EU's predecessor after gaining independence from France in 1962, and Greenland, which was a self-governing territory, left Denmark through a special treaty in 1985.



On Nov. 25, 2018, Britain and the EU agreed on a 599-page Withdrawal Agreement, a Brexit deal that touched upon issues such as citizens' rights, the divorce bill, and the Irish border. Parliament first voted on this agreement on Jan. 15, 2019. Members of Parliament voted 432 to 202 to reject the agreement, the biggest defeat for a government in the House of Commons in recent history. 



May stepped down as party leader on June 7, 2019, after failing three times to get the deal she negotiated with the EU approved by the House of Commons. The following month, Boris Johnson, a former Mayor of London, foreign minister, and editor of The Spectator, was elected prime minister.



Johnson, a hardline Brexit supporter, campaigned on a platform to leave the EU by the October deadline "do or die" and said he was prepared to leave the EU without a deal. The U.K. and EU negotiators agreed on a new divorce deal on Oct. 17. The main difference from May's deal is that the Irish backstop clause was replaced with a new arrangement.



Another historic moment occurred in Aug. 2019 when Prime Minister Boris Johnson requested that the Queen suspend Parliament from mid-September until Oct. 14, and she approved. This was seen as a ploy to stop members of parliament from blocking a chaotic exit and some even called it a coup of sorts. The Supreme Court's 11 judges unanimously deemed the move unlawful on Sept. 24 and reversed it.



The negotiating period also led Britain's political parties to face their own crises. Lawmakers left both the Conservative and Labour parties in protest. There were allegations of antisemitism in the Labour Party, and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was criticized for his handling of the issue. In September, Johnson expelled 21 MPs for voting to delay Brexit.



The U.K. was expected to leave the EU by Oct. 31, 2019, but Parliament voted to force the government to seek an extension to the deadline and also delayed a vote on the new deal.



Boris Johnson then called for a general election. In the Dec. 12 election, the third general election in less than five years, Johnson's Conservative Party won a huge majority of 364 seats in the House of Commons, out of 650 seats. It managed this despite receiving only 42% of the vote, due to its opponents being fractured between multiple parties.


   Brexit Negotiations  

Britain's lead negotiator in the talks with Brussels was David Davis. He was a Yorkshire member of Parliament (MP) until July 9, 2018, when he resigned. He was replaced by housing minister Dominic Raab as Brexit secretary. Raab resigned in protest over May's deal on Nov. 15, 2018. He was replaced by health and social care minister Stephen Barclay the following day. 



The EU's chief negotiator was Michel Barnier, a French politician.



Preparatory talks exposed divisions in the two sides' approaches to the process. The U.K. wanted to negotiate the terms of its withdrawal alongside the terms of its post-Brexit relationship with Europe, while Brussels wanted to make sufficient progress on divorce terms by Oct. 2017, only then moving on to a trade deal. In a concession that both pro- and anti-Brexit commentators took as a sign of weakness, U.K. negotiators accepted the EU's sequenced approach.


  Citizens' Rights  

One of the most politically thorny issues facing Brexit negotiators was the rights of EU citizens living in the U.K. and U.K. citizens living in the EU.



The Withdrawal Agreement allowed for the free movement of EU and U.K. citizens until the end of the transition or implementation period. Citizens were allowed to keep their residency rights if they continued to work, had sufficient resources, or were related to someone who does. To upgrade their residence status to permanent, they had to apply to the host nation. The rights of these citizens were revocable if Britain crashed out without ratifying a deal.



EU citizens increasingly left the U.K. since the referendum.



"EU net migration, while still adding to the population as a whole, has fallen to a level last seen in 2009. We are also now seeing more EU8 citizens—those from Central and Eastern European countries, for example, Poland—leaving the U.K. than arriving,” said Jay Lindop, Director of the Centre for International Migration, in a government quarterly report released in Feb. 2019.







Britain's government fought over the rights of EU citizens to remain in the U.K. after Brexit, publicly airing domestic divisions over migration. Following the referendum and Cameron's resignation, May's government concluded that it had the right under the "royal prerogative" to trigger Article 50 and begin the formal withdrawal process on its own.



The U.K. Supreme Court intervened, ruling that Parliament had to authorize the measure, and the House of Lords amended the resulting bill to guarantee the rights of EU-born residents. The House of Commons, which had a Tory majority at the time, struck the amendment down and the unamended bill became law on March 16, 2017.







Conservative opponents of the amendment argued that unilateral guarantees eroded Britain's negotiating position, while those in favor of it said EU citizens should not be used as bargaining chips.



Some of the economic concerns included the fact that EU migrants are greater contributors to the economy than their U.K. counterparts. "Leave" supporters, though, read the data as pointing to foreign competition for scarce jobs in Britain.


  Brexit Financial Settlement  

The Brexit bill was the financial settlement the U.K. owed Brussels following its withdrawal.



The Withdrawal Agreement didn't mention a specific figure, but it was estimated to be up to £32.8 billion, according to Downing Street. The total sum included the financial contribution the U.K. would make during the transition period since it was an EU member state and its contribution toward the EU’s outstanding 2020 budget commitments.



The U.K. also received funding from EU programs during the transition period and a share of its assets at the end of it, which included the capital it paid to the European Investment Bank (EIB).



A Dec. 2017 agreement resolved this long-standing sticking point that threatened to derail negotiations entirely. Barnier's team launched the first volley in May 2017 with the release of a document listing the 70-odd entities it would take into account when tabulating the bill. The Financial Times estimated that the gross amount requested would be €100 billion. Net of certain U.K. assets, the final bill would be "in the region of €55bn to €75bn."



Davis' team, meanwhile, refused EU demands to submit the U.K.'s preferred methodology for tallying the bill. In August, he told the BBC he would not commit to a figure by October, the deadline for assessing "sufficient progress" on issues such as the bill.



The following month he told the House of Commons that Brexit bill negotiations could go on "for the full duration of the negotiation."



Davis presented this refusal to the House of Lords as a negotiating tactic, but domestic politics probably explain his reticence. Boris Johnson, who campaigned for Brexit, called EU estimates "extortionate" on July 11, 2017, and agreed with a Tory MP that Brussels could "go whistle" if they wanted "a penny."



In her Sept. 2017 speech in Florence, however, May said the U.K. would "honor commitments we have made during the period of our membership." Michel Barnier confirmed to reporters in October 2019 that Britain would pay what was owed.


  The Northern Irish Border  

The new Withdrawal Agreement replaced the controversial Irish backstop provision with a protocol. According to the revised deal, the entire U.K. left the EU customs union upon Brexit, but Northern Ireland followed EU regulations and VAT laws for goods while the U.K. government collects the VAT on behalf of the EU.



This means there was a limited customs border in the Irish Sea with checks at major ports. The Northern Ireland assembly can vote on this arrangement four years after the end of the transition period.



The backstop emerged as the main reason for the Brexit impasse. It was a guarantee that there was no "hard border" between Northern Ireland and Ireland. It was an insurance policy that kept Britain in the EU customs union with Northern Ireland following EU single market rules.



The backstop, which was meant to be temporary and was superseded by a subsequent agreement, could only be removed if both Britain and the EU gave their consent.



May was unable to garner enough support for her deal due to it. Euroskeptic MPs wanted her to add legally binding changes as they feared it would compromise the country's autonomy and could last indefinitely. EU leaders refused to remove it and also ruled out a time limit on granting Britain the power to remove it. On March 11, 2019, the two sides signed a pact in Strasbourg that did not change the Withdrawal Agreement but added "meaningful legal assurances." But it wasn't enough to convince hardline Brexiteers.



For decades during the second half of the 20th century, violence between Protestants and Catholics marred Northern Ireland and the border between the U.K. countryside and the Republic of Ireland to the south was militarized. The 1998 Good Friday Agreement turned the border almost invisible, except for speed limit signs, which switch from miles per hour in the north to kilometers per hour in the south. 



Negotiators in the U.K. and EU worried about the consequences of reinstating border controls, as Britain had to do in order to end freedom of movement from the EU. Yet leaving the customs union without imposing customs checks at the Northern Irish border or between Northern Ireland and the rest of Britain left the door wide open for smuggling. This significant and unique challenge was one of the reasons soft Brexit advocates cited in favor of staying in the EU's customs union and perhaps its single market.



The issue was further complicated by the Tories' choice of the Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party as a coalition partner. The party opposed the Good Friday Agreement and, unlike the Conservative leader at the time, campaigned for Brexit.



Under the Good Friday Agreement, the U.K. government was required to oversee Northern Ireland with "rigorous impartiality." That proved difficult for a government that depends on the cooperation of a party with an overwhelmingly Protestant support base and historical connections to Protestant paramilitary groups.


   Arguments for and Against Brexit  

Leave voters based their support for Brexit on a variety of factors, including the European debt crisis, immigration, terrorism, and the perceived drag of Brussels' bureaucracy on the U.K. economy.



Britain was wary of the European Union's projects, which Leavers felt threatened the U.K.'s sovereignty; the country never opted into the European Union's monetary union, meaning that it used the pound instead of the euro. It also remained outside the Schengen Area, meaning that it did not share open borders with a number of other European nations.







Opponents of Brexit also cited a number of rationales for their position:



The risk involved in pulling out of the EU's decision-making process, given that it was the largest destination for U.K. exportsThe economic and societal benefits of the EU's four freedoms: the free movement of goods, services, capital, and people across borders



A common thread in both arguments was that leaving the EU would destabilize the U.K. economy in the short term and make the country poorer in the long term.



In July 2018, May's cabinet suffered another shake-up when Boris Johnson resigned as the U.K.'s Foreign Minister and David Davis resigned as Brexit Minister over May's plans to keep close ties to the EU. Johnson was replaced by Jeremy Hunt, who favored a soft Brexit.







Some state institutions backed the Remainers' economic arguments: Bank of England governor Mark Carney called Brexit "the biggest domestic risk to financial stability" in March 2016 and the following month the Treasury projected lasting damage to the economy under any of three possible post-Brexit scenarios:



European Economic Area (EEA) membership
A negotiated bilateral trade deal
World Trade Organization (WTO) membership











The annual impact of leaving the EU on the U.K. after 15 years (difference from being in the EU)




 
EEA
Negotiated bilateral agreement
WTO


GDP level – central
-3.8%
-6.2%
-7.5%


GDP level
-3.4% to -4.3%
-4.6% to -7.8%
-5.4% to -9.5%


GDP per capita – central*
-£1,100
-£1,800
-£2,100


GDP per capita*
-£1,000 to -£1,200
-£1,300 to -£2,200
-£1,500 to -£2,700


GPD per household – central*
-£2,600
-£4,300
-£5,200


GDP per household*
-£2,400 to -£2,900
-£3,200 to -£5,400
-£3,700 to -£6,600


Net impact on receipts
-£20 billion
-£36 billion
-£45 billion



*Expressed in terms of 2015 GDP in 2015 prices, rounded to the nearest £100



Adapted from HM Treasury analysis: the long-term economic impact of EU membership and the alternatives, April 2016.



Leave supporters discounted such economic projections under the label "Project Fear." A pro-Brexit outfit associated with the U.K. Independence Party (UKIP), which was founded to oppose EU membership, responded by saying that the Treasury's "worst-case scenario of £4,300 per household is a bargain-basement price for the restoration of national independence and safe, secure borders."



Although Leavers stressed issues of national pride, safety, and sovereignty, they also mustered economic arguments. For example, Boris Johnson said on the eve of the vote, "EU politicians would be banging down the door for a trade deal" the day after the vote, in light of their "commercial interests."



Vote Leave, the official pro-Brexit campaign, topped the "Why Vote Leave" page on its website with the claim that the U.K. could save £350 million per week: "We can spend our money on our priorities like the NHS [National Health Service], schools, and housing."



In May 2016, the U.K. Statistics Authority, an independent public body, said the figure was gross rather than net, which was "misleading and undermines trust in official statistics." A mid-June poll by Ipsos MORI, however, found that 47% of the country believed the claim.



The day after the referendum, Nigel Farage, who co-founded UKIP and led it until that November, disavowed the figure and said that he was not closely associated with Vote Leave. May also declined to confirm Vote Leave's NHS promises since taking office.






   Brexit Economic Response  

Though Britain officially left the EU, 2020 was a transition and implementation period. Trade and customs continued during that time, so there wasn't much on a day-to-day basis that seemed different to U.K. residents. Even so, the decision to leave the EU had an effect on Britain's economy.



The country's GDP growth slowed down to around 1.7% in 2018 from 2.2% in 2016 and 2.4% in 2017 as business investment slumped. The IMF predicted that the country's economy would grow at 1.3% in 2019 and 1.4% in 2020. Instead, growth was 1.6% in 2019 but -11% in 2020. GDP rebounded, however, touching 7.6% in 2021 before slowing to 4.1% in 2022.



The U.K. unemployment rate hit a 44-year low at 3.9% in the three months to Jan. 2019. Experts attribute this to employers preferring to retain workers instead of investing in new major projects.



While the fall in the value of the pound after the Brexit vote helped exporters, the higher price of imports was passed onto consumers and had a significant impact on the annual inflation rate. CPI inflation hit 3.1% in the 12 months leading up to Nov. 2017, a near six-year high that well exceeded the Bank of England's 2% target. Inflation fell in 2018 with the decline in oil and gas prices, but soared after the global pandemic, rising 8.7% in the 12 months preceding April 2023.







A July 2017 report by the House of Lords cited evidence that U.K. businesses would have to raise wages to attract native-born workers following Brexit, which is "likely to lead to higher prices for consumers."



International trade was expected to fall due to Brexit, even with the possibility of a raft of free trade deals. Dr. Monique Ebell, former associate research director at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, forecasted a -22% reduction in total U.K. goods and services trade if EU membership was replaced by a free trade agreement.



Other free trade agreements were not predicted to pick up the slack. In fact, Ebell saw a pact with the BRIICS (Brazil, Russia, India, Indonesia, China, and South Africa) boosting total trade by 2.2% while a pact with the U.S., Canada, Australia, and New Zealand was expected to do slightly better, at 2.6%.



"The single market is a very deep and comprehensive trade agreement aimed at reducing non-tariff barriers," Ebell wrote in Jan. 2017, "while most non-EU [free trade agreements] seem to be quite ineffective at reducing the non-tariff barriers that are important for services trade."






   June 2017 General Election  

On April 18, May called for a snap election to be held on June 8, despite previous promises not to hold one until 2020. Polling at the time suggested May would expand on her slim Parliamentary majority of 330 seats (there are 650 seats in the Commons). Labor gained rapidly in the polls, however, aided by an embarrassing Tory flip-flop on a proposal for estates to fund end-of-life care. 



The Conservatives lost their majority, winning 318 seats to Labor's 262. The Scottish National Party won 35, with other parties taking 35. The resulting hung Parliament cast doubts on May's mandate to negotiate Brexit and led the leaders of Labor and the Liberal Democrats to call on May to resign.







Speaking in front of the prime minister's residence at 10 Downing Street, May batted away calls for her to leave her post, saying, "It is clear that only the Conservative and Unionist Party"—the Tories' official name—"has the legitimacy and ability to provide that certainty by commanding a majority in the House of Commons." The Conservatives struck a deal with the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, which won 10 seats, to form a coalition.



May presented the election as a chance for the Conservatives to solidify their mandate and strengthen their negotiating position with Brussels. But this backfired.



"The election served to diffuse, not concentrate political power, especially with regards to Brexit," wrote Sky News political correspondent Lewis Goodall. "Ever since election night, Brussels hasn't just been dealing with Number 10 but in effect, the House of Commons too."



In the wake of the election, many expected the government's Brexit position to soften, and they were right. May released a Brexit white paper in July 2018 that mentioned an "association agreement" and a free-trade area for goods with the EU. David Davis resigned as Brexit secretary and Boris Johnson resigned as Foreign Secretary in protest.



But the election also increased the possibility of a no-deal Brexit. The Financial Times predicted that the result made May more vulnerable to pressure from Euroskeptics and her coalition partners. This was evident with the Irish backstop tussle.



With her position weakened, May struggled to unite her party behind her deal and keep control of Brexit.


   Scotland's Independence Referendum  

Politicians in Scotland pushed for a second independence referendum in the wake of the Brexit vote, but the results of the June 8, 2017, election cast a pall over their efforts. The Scottish National Party (SNP) lost 21 seats in the Westminster Parliament, and on June 27, 2017, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said her government at Holyrood would "reset" its timetable on independence to focus on delivering a "soft Brexit."



Not one Scottish local area voted to leave the EU, according to the U.K.'s Electoral Commission, though Moray came close at 49.9%. The country as a whole rejected the referendum by 62.0% to 38.0%.



But because Scotland only contains 8.4% of the U.K.'s population, its vote to Remain (along with that of Northern Ireland, which accounts for just 2.9% of the U.K.'s population) was vastly outweighed by support for Brexit in England and Wales.



Scotland joined England and Wales to form Great Britain in 1707, and the relationship has been tumultuous at times. The SNP, which was founded in the 1930s, had just six of 650 seats in Westminster in 2010. The following year, however, it formed a majority government in the devolved Scottish Parliament at Holyrood, partly owing to its promise to hold a referendum on Scottish independence. 


  2014 Scottish Independence Referendum  

That referendum, held in 2014, saw the pro-independence side lose with 44.7% of the vote. Turnout was 84.6%. Far from putting the independence issue to rest, though, the vote fired up nationalist support.



The SNP won 56 of 59 Scottish seats at Westminster the following year, overtaking the Lib Dems to become the third-largest party in the U.K. overall. Britain's electoral map suddenly showed a glaring divide between England and Wales, which was dominated by Tory blue with the occasional patch of Labour red, and all-yellow Scotland.



When Britain voted to leave the EU, Scotland fulminated. A combination of rising nationalism and strong support for Europe led almost immediately to calls for a new independence referendum. When the Supreme Court ruled on Nov. 3, 2017, that devolved national assemblies such as Scotland's parliament cannot veto Brexit, the demands grew louder.



On March 13 of that year, Sturgeon called for a second referendum to be held in the autumn of 2018 or spring of 2019. Holyrood backed her by a vote of 69 to 59 on March 28, the day before May's government triggered Article 50.



Sturgeon's preferred timing was significant since the two-year countdown initiated by Article 50 ended in the spring of 2019 when the politics surrounding Brexit could be particularly volatile.


  What Would Independence Look Like?  

Scotland's economic situation also raised questions about its hypothetical future as an independent country. The crash in oil prices dealt a blow to government finances. In May 2014, it forecast 2015–2016 tax receipts from North Sea drilling of £3.4 billion to £9 billion but only collected £60 million, less than 1% of the forecasts' midpoint.



In reality, these figures were hypothetical, since Scotland's finances are not fully devolved, but the estimates were based on the country's geographical share of North Sea drilling, so they illustrate what it might expect as an independent nation.



The debate over what currency an independent Scotland would use was revived. Former SNP leader Alex Salmond, who was Scotland's First Minister until Nov. 2014, told The Financial Times that the country could abandon the pound and introduce its own currency, allowing it to float freely or pegging it to sterling. He ruled out joining the euro, but others contended that it would be required for Scotland to join the EU. Another possibility would be to use the pound, which would mean forfeiting control over monetary policy.


   Upsides for Some  

On the other hand, a weak currency that floats on global markets can be a boon to U.K. producers who export goods. Industries that rely heavily on exports could actually see some benefit.



In 2023, the top 10 exports from the U.K. were (in USD):



Gems, precious metals: $62 billionAircraft, engines, and parts manufacturing: $23.4 billionVehicles: $18.8 billionPharmaceuticals: $16.5 billionOil refining: $12.2 billionPetroleum and gas: $9.8 billionOff-road vehicle manufacturing: $7.2 billionJewelry manufacturing: $6.9 billionOrganic chemicals: $5.9 billionClothing: $5.7 billion



Some sectors were prepared to benefit from the exit. Multinationals listed on the FTSE 100 saw earnings rise as a result of a soft pound. A weak currency was also a boon to the tourism, energy, and service industries.



In May 2016, the State Bank of India, India's largest commercial bank, suggested that Brexit would benefit India economically. While leaving the Eurozone meant that the U.K. no longer had unfettered access to Europe's single market, it would allow for more focus on trade with India. India would also have more wiggle room if the U.K. was no longer under European trade rules and regulations.


   U.K.-EU Trade After Brexit  

May advocated a "hard" Brexit. By that, she meant that Britain should leave the EU's single market and customs union, then negotiate a trade deal to govern their future relationship. These negotiations would have been conducted during a transition period once a divorce deal was ratified.



The Conservatives' poor showing in the June 2017 snap election called popular support for a hard Brexit into question. Many in the press speculated that the government could take a softer line. The Brexit White Paper released in July 2018 revealed plans for a softer Brexit. It was too soft for many MPs belonging to her party and too audacious for the EU.



The white paper said the government planned to leave the EU single market and customs union. However, it proposed the creation of a free trade area for goods which would "avoid the need for customs and regulatory checks at the border and mean that businesses would not need to complete costly customs declarations. And it would enable products to only undergo one set of approvals and authorizations in either market, before being sold in both." This meant the U.K. would follow EU single market rules when it comes to goods.



The White Paper acknowledged that a borderless customs arrangement with the EU—one that allowed the U.K. to negotiate free trade agreements with third countries—was "broader in scope than any other that exists between the EU and a third country."



The government was correct that there was no example of this kind of relationship in Europe today. The four broad precedents that existed were the EU's relationship with Norway, Switzerland, Canada, and WTO members.


  The Norway Model: Join the EEA  

The first option was for the U.K. to join Norway, Iceland, and Lichtenstein in the European Economic Area (EEA), which provides access to the EU's single market for most goods and services (agriculture and fisheries are excluded). At the same time, the EEA is outside the customs union, so Britain could have entered into trade deals with non-EU countries.



But the arrangement was hardly a win-win. The U.K. would be bound by some EU laws while losing its ability to influence those laws through the country's European Council and European Parliament voting rights. In Sept. 2017, May called this arrangement an unacceptable "loss of democratic control."



David Davis expressed interest in the Norway model in response to a question he received at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington. "It's something we've thought about but it's not at the top of our list," he said. He was referring specifically to the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), which like the EEA offers access to the single market, but not the customs union.



EFTA was once a large organization, but most of its members left to join the EU. Today, it comprises Norway, Iceland, Lichtenstein, and Switzerland; all but Switzerland are also members of the EEA.


  The Switzerland Model  

Switzerland's relationship with the EU, which is governed by around 20 major bilateral pacts with the bloc, is broadly similar to the EEA arrangement. Along with these three, Switzerland is a member of the European Free Trade Association. Switzerland helped set up the EEA, but its people rejected membership in a 1992 referendum. 



The country allows the free movement of people and is a member of the passport-free Schengen Area. It is subject to many single-market rules, without having much say in making them.



It is outside the customs union, allowing it to negotiate free trade agreements with third countries; usually, but not always, it has negotiated alongside the EEA countries. Switzerland has access to the single market for goods (with the exception of agriculture), but not services (with the exception of insurance). It pays a modest amount into the EU's budget. 



Brexit supporters who wanted to "take back control" wouldn't have embraced the concessions the Swiss made on immigration, budget payments, and single market rules. The EU would probably not have wanted a relationship modeled on the Swiss example, either: Switzerland's membership in EFTA but not the EEA, Schengen but not the EU, is a messy product of the complex history of European integration and—what else—a referendum.


  The Canada Model: A Free Trade Agreement  

A third option was to negotiate a free trade agreement with the EU along the lines of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), a pact the EU finalized but didn't fully ratify with Canada. The most obvious problem with this approach is that the U.K. had only two years from the triggering of Article 50 to negotiate such a deal. The EU refused to discuss a future trading relationship until December of that year at the earliest. 



To give a sense of how tight that timetable was, CETA negotiations began in 2009 and concluded in 2014. But just over half of the EU's 28 national parliaments actually ratified the deal. Persuading the rest could take years. Even subnational legislatures can stand in the way of a deal: the Walloon regional parliament, which represents fewer than four million mainly French-speaking Belgians, single-handedly blocked CETA for a few days in 2016.



In order to extend the two-year deadline for leaving the EU, Britain needed unanimous approval from the EU. Several U.K. politicians, including Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond, stressed the need for a transitional deal of a few years so that (among other reasons) Britain could negotiate EU and third-country trade deals. But this notion was met with resistance from hard-line Brexiteers.


  Problems With a CETA-Style Agreement  

In some ways, comparing Britain's situation to Canada's is misleading. Canada already enjoys free trade with the U.S. through the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which was built on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). This means that a trade deal with the EU was not as crucial as it is for the U.K. Canada's and Britain's economies are also very different: CETA does not include financial services, one of Britain's biggest exports to the EU.



Speaking in Florence in Sept. 2017, May said the U.K. and EU "can do so much better" than a CETA-style trade agreement, since they were beginning from the "unprecedented position" of sharing a body of rules and regulations. She did not elaborate on what "much better" looked like, besides calling on both parties to be "creative as well as practical."



Monique Ebell, formerly of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, stressed that even with an agreement in place, non-tariff barriers were likely to be a significant drag on Britain's trade with the EU. She expected total U.K. foreign trade—not just flows to and from the EU—under an EU-U.K. trade pact. She reasoned that free-trade deals do not generally handle services trade well. Services are a major component of Britain's international trade; the country enjoys a trade surplus in that segment, which is not the case for goods.



Free trade deals also struggle to rein in non-tariff barriers. Admittedly Britain and the EU started from a unified regulatory scheme, but divergences would only multiply post-Brexit.






  WTO: Go It Alone  

If Britain and the EU weren't able to come to an agreement about their relationship, they would have had to revert to WTO terms. But this default solution wouldn't have been straightforward either. Since Britain is currently a WTO member through the EU, it will have to split tariff schedules with the bloc and divvy out liabilities arising from ongoing trade disputes. This work has already begun.



Trading with the EU on WTO terms was the "no-deal" scenario the Conservative government presented as an acceptable fallback, though most observers see this as a negotiating tactic. In July 2017, U.K. Secretary of State for International Trade Liam Fox said, "People talk about the WTO as if it would be the end of the world. But they forget that is how they currently trade with the United States, with China, with Japan, with India, with the Gulf, and our trading relationship is strong and healthy."



But for certain industries, the EU's external tariff would have hit hard: Britain exports 77% of the cars it manufactures, and 58% of these go to Europe. The EU levies 10% tariffs on imported cars. Monique Ebell of the NIESR estimated that leaving the EU single market would reduce overall U.K. goods and services trade—not just that with the EU—by 22% to 30%.



Nor would the U.K. only be giving up its trade arrangements with the EU; under any of the scenarios above, it would probably have lost the trade agreements the bloc struck with 63 third countries, as well as progress in negotiating other deals. Replacing these and adding new ones would have been an uncertain prospect. In a Sept. 2017 interview with Politico, Trade Secretary Liam Fox said his office, which was formed in July 2016, turned away some third countries looking to negotiate free trade deals because it lacked the capacity to negotiate.



Fox wanted to roll the terms of existing EU trade deals over into new agreements, but some countries were unwilling to give Britain (66 million people, $2.6 trillion GDP) the same terms as the EU (excluding Britain, around 440 million people, $13.9 trillion GDP).






   Impact on the U.S.  

Companies in the U.S. across a wide variety of sectors have made large investments in the U.K. over many years. In fact, American corporations have derived 9% of global foreign affiliate profit from the United Kingdom since 2000. The U.S. also hires a lot of Brits, making U.S. companies one of the U.K.'s largest job markets. The output of U.S. affiliates in the United Kingdom was $129.3 billion in 2021.



The United Kingdom plays a vital role in corporate America's global infrastructure from assets under management (AUM), international sales, and research and development (R&D) advancements.



American companies have viewed Britain as a strategic gateway to other countries in the European Union. Brexit will jeopardize the affiliate earnings and stock prices of many companies strategically aligned with the United Kingdom, which may see them reconsider their operations with U.K. and European Union members.



American companies and investors that have exposure to European banks and credit markets may be affected by credit risk. European banks may have to replace $123 billion in securities depending on how the exit unfolds. Furthermore, U.K. debt may not be included in European banks' emergency cash reserves, creating liquidity problems. European asset-backed securities have been in decline since 2007. This decline is likely to intensify now that Britain has chosen to leave.


   Who's Next to Leave the EU?  

Political wrangling over the EU wasn't limited to Britain. Even following Britain's departure, most EU members had strong Euroskeptic movements that, while they struggled to win power at the national level, heavily influenced the tenor of national politics in the years that followed. There is still a chance that such movements could secure referendums on EU membership in a few countries at some point in the future. 



In May 2016, global research firm IPSOS released a report showing that a majority of respondents in Italy and France believe their countries should hold a referendum on EU membership.












  Italy  

The fragile Italian banking sector has driven a wedge between the EU and the Italian government, which provided bailout funds to save mom-and-pop bondholders from being "bailed-in," as EU rules stipulate. The government abandoned its 2019 budget when the EU threatened it with sanctions. It lowered its planned budget deficit from 2.5% of GDP to 2.04%.



Matteo Salvini, the far-right head of Italy's Northern League and the country's deputy prime minister, called for a referendum on EU membership hours after the Brexit vote, saying, "This vote was a slap in the face for all those who say that Europe is their own business and Italians don't have to meddle with that." 



The Northern League has an ally in the populist Five Star Movement, whose founder, former comedian Beppe Grillo, called for a referendum on Italy's membership in the euro—though not the EU. The two parties formed a coalition government in 2018 and made Giuseppe Conte prime minister. Conte ruled out the possibility of "Italexit" in 2018 during the budget standoff.


  France  

Marine Le Pen, the leader of France's Euroskeptic National Front, hailed the Brexit vote as a win for nationalism and sovereignty across Europe: "Like a lot of French people, I'm very happy that the U.K. people held on and made the right choice. What we thought was impossible yesterday has now become possible." She lost the French presidential election to Emmanuel Macron in May 2017, gaining just 33.9% of votes. He won the election again in 2022, beating Le Pen once again.



Macron has warned that the demand for "Frexit" will grow if the EU does not see reforms. According to a European Social Survey poll between 2020 and 2022, 16% of French citizens want the country to leave the EU, down from 24.3% between 2016 and 2017.




When Did Britain Officially Leave the European Union?
Britain officially left the EU on Jan. 31, 2020, at 11 p.m. GMT. The move came after a referendum voted in favor of Brexit on June 23, 2016.




What Were the Reasons Behind Brexit?
There were many reasons why Britain voted to leave the European Union. But some of the main issues behind Brexit included a rise in nationalism, immigration, political autonomy, and the economy. The Leave side garnered almost 52% of the votes while the Remain side received about 48% of the vote.




How Many Countries Are Part of the EU Post-Brexit?
Britain's departure from the European Union left 27 member states. They are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden.


   The Bottom Line  

The European Union was established in Nov. 1993 with the Maastricht Treaty. The original members included Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Fifteen other countries would gain membership in the union.



Rising nationalist sentiment, coupled with concerns over the economy and British sovereignty, led the majority of voters in the U.K. to vote to leave the EU. Britain left the union at the end of Jan. 2020 in what is commonly called Brexit. But the move didn't come without challenges. It required two years of negotiating a deal and a year-long transition period before everything became final.
What Is Brick-and-Mortar?  

The term "brick-and-mortar" refers to a traditional street-side business that offers products and services to its customers face-to-face in an office or store that the business owns or rents. The local grocery store and the corner bank are examples of brick-and-mortar companies.



Brick-and-mortar businesses have found it difficult to compete with web-based businesses like Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) because the latter usually have lower operating costs and greater flexibility.





Key Takeaways

Brick-and-mortar refers to a traditional business that has a physical store or stores where customers browse and make purchases in person.These kinds of traditional stores have had a harder time in the digital economy, in which web-based retailers such as eBay or Amazon benefit from lower operating costs and more flexibility for customers.Many traditionally brick-and-mortar companies have created simultaneous, connected web-based businesses to better compete with online-only firms.Similarly, the long-standing and important brick-and-mortar model has had an impact on some previously web-only companies that have opened physical locations to realize the advantages of traditional retail.


   Understanding Brick-and-Mortar  

Many consumers still prefer to shop and browse in a physical store. In brick-and-mortar stores, consumers can speak with employees and ask questions about the products or services. Brick-and-mortar stores can offer experience shopping whereby consumers can test a product such as a video game or laptop at Best Buy or have lunch in Nordstrom's cafe while shopping at the store. Brick-and-mortar businesses also provide consumers with instant gratification when a purchase is made.



Some consumers are wary of using credit cards or other forms of payment online. These customers often associate legitimacy with a brick-and-mortar business, as a physical presence can foster a perception of trust. However, there can be disadvantages for corporations that run brick-and-mortar stores including the costs associated with leasing the building, employees to conduct transactions, and utility expenses such as electricity, heat, and water.


   Brick-and-Mortar Store Sales  

On a per-store basis, publicly-traded retailers typically report same-store sales, or comparable-store sales, in their quarterly and annual SEC-regulated earnings reports. These financial metrics provide a performance comparison for the established stores of a retail chain over a specified period of time. Brick-and-mortar businesses that include restaurants, grocery stores, and general merchandise stores use these figures to evaluate their financial performance to guide corporate decision-making regarding their stores.



On a macroeconomic level, the U.S. Census Bureau releases retail sales figures every month and e-commerce retail sales figures every quarter.



Global non-store retailing, such as direct (door-to-door) selling and e-commerce, posted sales of over $3,989 billion in 2023.






Many brick-and-mortar stores have found it difficult to compete with web-based stores like Amazon.com; however, companies such as Costco thrive by offering its members services such as online pickup.


   Successful Brick-and-Mortar Store Example  

With all the negative press surrounding brick-and-mortar stores combined with the popularity of Amazon, one might think that the brick-and-mortar business model is dead. However, Costco is bucking the trend.



Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST) is a membership retailer that charges an annual fee of between $60 and $120 to each customer. Consumers receive cost savings and service benefits for being a member. Costco had over 118 million members and a 93% renewal rate in the United States and Canada at the end of 2022.



Costco beat out Amazon as the top Internet retailer in a consumer survey done by Verint Systems, Inc. Costco sells 10,000 products on its website and offers consumers the option to buy goods online and pick them up in the store, which helps offer its members a compelling alternative to Amazon.


   Types of Brick-and-Mortar Stores  

There are several areas where brick-and-mortar stores still provide a resilient business model. These are typically situations where a face-to-face shopping experience provides more convenience than online shopping. For example:



Convenience Stores: Convenience stores account for a large share of retail business locations. Because most of their revenue is from impulse purchases, online stores are unlikely to fill their niche.Groceries: Grocery stores allow customers to personally inspect their products and take them home immediately, another area where online stores are at a competitive disadvantage.Specialty Stores: These are stores that fill a specific customer need, such as hardware stores or bookstores. However, they do face competition from online sellers.Department Stores: Large stores with a variety of different products in different departments. These are most susceptible to losing money to online sales.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Brick-and-Mortar Stores  

Brick-and-Mortar stores offer the advantage of an in-person shopping experience, which may be important when the product must be inspected by the shopper. They are also more convenient when the product cannot easily be delivered online, such as a haircut.



Some business types are more appropriately suited to brick-and-mortar forms, such as hair salons, veterinarians, gas stations, auto repair shops, restaurants, and accounting firms. Marketing strategies for brick-and-mortar businesses must highlight the advantages a consumer has when purchasing at a physical store.



On the other hand, brick-and-mortar stores tend to suffer higher overhead costs than online stores, and they can reach fewer customers. Commercial rental space tends to be more expensive than warehouse space, especially if the store relies on foot traffic or a downtown location. Moreover, they need to hire enough staff to keep the store open, as well as pay for cleaning, insurance, and office maintenance.




Pros and Cons of Brick-and-Mortar Stores

Pros

Provides a more personal experience.
More effective for goods that must be effective, or do not ship easily.
More effective for some services.



Cons

Higher costs for rent.
Higher staffing costs.
Difficult to serve customers outside a specific geographic area.





   Adaptations for Brick-and-Mortar Stores  

The rise of electronic commerce (e-commerce) and online businesses has led many to contemplate the future of the brick-and-mortar business. It is increasingly common for brick-and-mortar businesses to also have an online presence in an attempt to reap the benefits of each particular business model.



For example, some brick-and-mortar grocery stores, such as Safeway, allow customers to shop for groceries online and have them delivered to their doorstep in as little as a few hours. The increasing prevalence of these hybrid business models has spawned offshoot terms such as "click and mortars" and "bricks and clicks."



Despite fairly sustained growth in the broader brick-and-mortar landscape, many traditional retailers are closing stores nationwide including Gymboree, The Limited, Radio Shack, and Gamestop. Meanwhile, other stores such as Sears and Payless ShoeSource have declared bankruptcy.



However, the importance of the brick-and-mortar model has been given credence by several large online e-commerce companies opening physical locations to realize the advantages of traditional retail. For example, Amazon.com Inc. has opened brick-and-mortar stores to help market its products and strengthen customer relations.



Aside from opening a cashier-less grocery store in Seattle and dozens of bookstores nationwide, Amazon also acquired grocer Whole Foods in 2017 for $13.7 billion, a move that many analysts said highlighted Amazon's urgent desire to strengthen its physical retail presence.




What Is the Return Rate for Brick-and-Mortar Stores?
Brick-and-mortar stores have an average return rate of 8.9%, compared to around 30% for online stores. This may be because it's more difficult for consumers to inspect online goods before purchasing them.




How Many Brick-and-Mortar Stores Are There in the United States?
There are just over a million retail establishments in the United States. The exact number was 1,059,316 as of 2022.




What Is Brick-and-Mortar Banking?
Brick-and-mortar banking refers to the practice of depositing and borrowing money through online banking applications or websites, compared to visiting a branch in person. Many retail banks are now eliminating some of their branches to provide more services by mail, telephone, or on the web.


   The Bottom Line  

Brick-and-mortar is a colloquial term that refers to retail stores and offices that customers can visit in person, in comparison to online stores without a customer-facing storefront. Although they provide a more personal shopping experience, these stores are often being undercut by online stores with much lower overhead costs. However, some businesses such as hair salons and grocery stores are still largely done in person.
What Is Bridge Financing?  

Bridge financing, often in the form of a bridge loan, is an interim financing option used by companies and other entities to solidify their short-term position until a long-term financing option can be arranged. Bridge financing normally comes from an investment bank or venture capital firm in the form of a loan or equity investment.



Bridge financing is also used for initial public offerings (IPO) or may include an equity-for-capital exchange instead of a loan.





Key Takeaways

Bridge financing can take the form of debt or equity and can be used during an IPO.Bridge loans are typically short-term in nature and involve high interest.Equity bridge financing requires giving up a stake in the company in exchange for financing.IPO bridge financing is used by companies going public. The financing covers the IPO costs and then is paid off when the company goes public.


   How Bridge Financing Works  

Bridge financing "bridges" the gap between the time when a company's money is set to run out and when it can expect to receive an infusion of funds later on. This type of financing is most normally used to fulfill a company's short-term working capital needs.



There are multiple ways that bridge financing can be arranged. Which option a firm or entity uses will depend on the options available to them. A company in a relatively solid position that needs a bit of short-term help may have more options than a company facing greater distress. Bridge financing options include debt, equity, and IPO bridge financing.


   Types of Bridge Financing  
  Debt Bridge Financing  

One option with bridge financing is for a company to take out a short-term, high-interest loan, known as a bridge loan. Companies who seek bridge financing through a bridge loan need to be careful, however, because the interest rates are sometimes so high that it can cause further financial struggles.



If, for example, a company is already approved for a $500,000 bank loan, but the loan is broken into tranches, with the first tranche set to come in six months, the company may seek a bridge loan. It can apply for a six-month short-term loan that gives it just enough money to survive until the first tranche hits the company's bank account.


  Equity Bridge Financing  

Sometimes companies do not want to incur debt with high interest. If this is the case, they can seek out venture capital firms to provide a bridge financing round and thus provide the company with capital until it can raise a larger round of equity financing (if desired).



In this scenario, the company may choose to offer the venture capital firm equity ownership in exchange for several months to a year's worth of financing. The venture capital firm will take such a deal if they believe the company will ultimately become profitable, which will see its stake in the company increase in value.


  IPO Bridge Financing  

Bridge financing, in investment banking terms, is a method of financing used by companies before their IPO. This type of bridge financing is designed to cover expenses associated with the IPO and is typically short term in nature. Once the IPO is complete, the cash raised from the offering immediately pays off the loan liability.



These funds are usually supplied by the investment bank underwriting the new issue. As payment, the company acquiring the bridge financing will give a number of shares to the underwriters at a discount on the issue price which offsets the loan. This financing is, in essence, a forwarded payment for the future sale of the new issue.


   Example of Bridge Financing  

Bridge financing is quite common in many industries since there are always struggling companies. The mining sector is filled with small players who often use bridge financing in order to develop a mine or to cover costs until they can issue more shares—a common way of raising funds in the sector.



Bridge financing is rarely straightforward, and will often include a number of provisions that help protect the entity providing the financing.



A mining company may secure $12 million in funding in order to develop a new mine which is expected to produce more profit than the loan amount. A venture capital firm may provide the funding, but because of the risks the venture capital firm charges 20% per year and requires that the funds be paid back in one year.



The term sheet of the loan may also include other provisions. These may include an increase in the interest rate if the loan is not repaid on time. It may increase to 25%, for example.



The venture capital firm may also implement a convertibility clause. This means that they can convert a certain amount of the loan into equity, at an agreed-upon stock price, if the venture capital firm decides to do so. For example, $4 million of the $12-million loan may be converted into equity at $5 per share at the discretion of the venture capital firm. The $5 price tag may be negotiated or it may simply be the price of the company's shares at the time the deal is struck.



Other terms may include mandatory and immediate repayment if the company gets additional funding that exceeds the outstanding balance of the loan.
What Is a Bridge Loan?  

A bridge loan is a short-term loan used until a person or company secures permanent financing or pays an existing obligation. It allows the borrower to meet current obligations by providing immediate cash flow. Bridge loans have relatively high interest rates and are usually backed by some form of collateral, such as real estate or the inventory of a business.



These types of loans are often used in real estate and are also called bridge financing or a bridging loan.





Key Takeaways

A bridge loan is short-term financing used until a person or company secures permanent financing or removes an existing obligation.Bridge loans are often used in real estate, but many types of businesses use them as well.Homeowners can use bridge loans toward the purchase of a new home while they wait for their current home to sell. 












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How a Bridge Loan Works  

Also known as interim financing, gap financing, or swing loans, bridge loans bridge the gap during times when financing is needed but not yet available. Both individuals and companies use bridge loans, and lenders can customize these loans for many different situations.



Bridge loans can help homeowners purchase a new home while they wait for their current home to sell. Borrowers use the equity in their current home for the down payment on the purchase of a new home while they wait for their current home to sell.



A bridge loan gives the homeowner some extra time and, more often than not, some peace of mind while they wait. However, these loans normally come at a higher interest rate than other credit facilities such as a home equity line of credit (HELOC).



Typically, lenders only offer real estate bridge loans to borrowers with excellent credit and low debt-to-income (DTI) ratios. Bridge loans roll the mortgages of two houses together, giving the buyer flexibility as they wait for their former house to sell. However, in most cases, lenders only offer real estate bridge loans worth 80% of the combined value of the two properties, meaning that the borrower must have significant home equity in the original property or ample cash savings on hand.



Businesses turn to bridge loans when they are waiting for long-term financing and need money to cover expenses in the interim. For example, imagine a company is doing a round of equity financing expected to close in six months. It may opt to use a bridge loan to provide working capital to cover its payroll, rent, utilities, inventory costs, and other expenses until the round of funding goes through.






In the case of real estate bridge loans, people who still haven’t paid off their mortgage end up having to make two payments: one for the bridge loan, and one for the mortgage until the old home is sold.


   Example of a Bridge Loan  

When Olayan America Corp. wanted to purchase the Sony Building in New York City in 2016, it took out a bridge loan from ING Capital. The short-term loan was approved very quickly, allowing Olayan to seal the deal on the Sony Building with dispatch. The loan helped to cover part of the cost of purchasing the building until Olayan secured more permanent, long-term funding.


   Bridge Loans vs. Traditional Loans  

Bridge loans typically have a faster application, approval, and funding process than traditional loans. However, in exchange for the convenience, these loans tend to have relatively short terms, high interest rates, and large origination fees.



Generally, borrowers accept these terms because they require fast, convenient access to funds. They are willing to pay high interest rates because they know the loan is short-term and plan to pay it off quickly with low-interest, long-term financing. In addition, most bridge loans don't have repayment penalties.




What Are the Pros of Bridge Loans?
Bridge loans provide short-term cash flow. For example, a homeowner can use a bridge loan to purchase a new home before selling their existing one.




What Are the Cons of Bridge Loans?
Bridge loans typically have higher interest rates than traditional loans. Also, if you are waiting to sell your home and still have a mortgage, you’ll have to make payments on both loans.




How Do I Qualify for a Bridge Loan?
For a real estate bridge loan, you’ll need an excellent credit score. Lenders also prefer borrowers with low debt-to-income (DTI) ratios.


   The Bottom Line  

A bridge loan—short-term financing used until a person or company secures permanent financing or settles an existing obligation—is often used in residential real estate, but many types of businesses use them as well. Homeowners can use bridge loans toward the purchase of a new home while they wait for their current home to sell. Businesses seek bridge loans when they are awaiting longer-term financing and need money to cover expenses in the interim. But these loans normally carry a higher interest rate than other available credit facilities.
What Is Broad Money?  

Broad money is a category for measuring the amount of money circulating in an economy. It is defined as the most inclusive method of calculating a given country's money supply, and includes narrow money along with other assets that can be easily converted into cash to buy goods and services.





Key Takeaways

Broad money is the most flexible method for measuring an economy's money supply, accounting for cash and other assets easily converted into currency.The formula for calculating money supply varies from country to country, so the term broad money is always defined to avoid misinterpretation.Central banks tend to keep tabs on broad money growth to help forecast inflation.


   Understanding Broad Money  

Because cash can be exchanged for many kinds of financial instruments, it is not a simple task for economists to define how much money is circulating in the economy. Money supply is measured in different ways. Economists use a capital letter "M" followed by a number to refer to the measurement they are using in a given context.



The formula for calculating money supply varies from country to country. Broad money is the broadest measure, encompassing narrow money (such as cash and checkable deposits), along with less liquid assets such as certificates of deposit, foreign currencies, money market accounts, marketable securities, Treasury bills and anything else that can be easily converted into cash (but not including company shares).


   Example of Broad Money  

In the United States, the most common measures of money supply are M1 and M2. In March 2006, the Federal Reserve stopped publishing M3 statistics.﻿﻿



These measurements vary according to the liquidity of the accounts included. M0 typically includes only the most liquid instruments, such as coins and notes in circulation. At the other end of the scale is M3, which is categorized as the broadest measurement of money.



Different countries define their measurements of money in slightly different ways. In academic settings, the term broad money is used to avoid misinterpretation. In most cases, broad money means the same as M3, while M0 and M1 usually refer to narrow money.






The Federal Reserve tracks M1 and M2 money supply. M1 is defined as currency in the hands of the public, travelers checks, demand deposits and checking deposits. M2 includes M1 plus savings accounts, money market mutual funds and time deposits under $100,000.﻿﻿


   Benefits of Broad Money  

Widening the scope of the total money in circulation comes with several advantages. Above all, it helps policymakers to better grasp potential inflationary trends. Central banks often look at broad money, alongside narrow money, to set monetary policy.



Economists have found close links between money supply, inflation and interest rates. Central banks such as the Federal Reserve use lower interest rates to increase the money supply when the goal is to stimulate the economy. Conversely, in an inflationary setting, interest rates are raised and the money supply diminishes, leading to lower prices.



In simple terms, if there is more money available, the economy tends to accelerate because businesses have easy access to financing. If there is less money in the system, the economy slows and prices may drop or stall. In this context, broad money is one of the measures that central bankers use to determine what interventions, if any, they could introduce to influence the economy.
What Is a Broker?  

A broker is an individual or firm that acts as an intermediary between an investor and a securities exchange. Because securities exchanges only accept orders from individuals or firms who are members of that exchange, individual traders and investors need the services of exchange members.



Brokers provide that service and are compensated in various ways, either through commissions, fees, or through being paid by the exchange itself. Investopedia regularly reviews all of the top brokers and maintains a list of the best online brokers and trading platforms to help investors make the decision of what broker is best for them.



We recommend the best products through an independent review process, and advertisers do not influence our picks. We may receive compensation if you visit partners we recommend. Read our advertiser disclosure for more info.





Key Takeaways


A broker is an individual or firm that acts as an intermediary between an investor and a securities exchange.
A broker can also refer to the role of a firm when it acts as an agent for a customer and charges the customer a commission for its services.
Discount brokers execute trades on behalf of a client, but typically don’t provide investment advice.
Full-service brokers provide execution services as well as tailored investment advice and solutions.
Brokers register with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), while investment advisers register through the SEC as registered investment advisors (RIAs).













Investopedia / Candra Huff












Compare the Best Online Brokers




Company
Category 
 Investopedia Rating
Account Minimum
Basic Fee


 Fidelity Investments
 Best Overall and Best for Low Costs
 4.8
$0 
 $0 for stock/ETF trades, $0 plus $0.65/contract for options trade


 TD Ameritrade
 Best for Beginners and Best Mobile App
 4.5
$0 
 $0 for stock/ETF trades, $0 plus $0.65/contract for options trade


 Tastyworks
 Best for Options
 3.8
$0 
 $0 stock/ETF trades, $1.00 to open options trades and $0 to close


 Interactive Brokers
 Best for Advanced Traders and Best for International Trading
 4.6
$0 
$0 for IBKR Lite, Maximum $0.005 per share for Pro platform or 1% of trade value 


Charles Schwab
Best for ETFs
4.7
$0
$0 for stock/ETF trades, $0 plus $0.65/contract for options trade





   Understanding Brokers  

As well as executing client orders, brokers may provide investors with research, investment plans, and market intelligence. They may also cross-sell other financial products and services their brokerage firm offers, such as access to a private client offering that provides tailored solutions to high net worth clients. In the past, only the wealthy could afford a broker and access the stock market. Online brokering triggered an explosion of discount brokers, which allow investors to trade at a lower cost, but without personalized advice.






   Discount vs. Full-Service Brokers  

Discount brokers can execute many types of trades on behalf of a client, for which they charge a reduced commission in the range of $5 to $15 per trade. Their low fee structure is based on volume and lower costs. They don’t offer investment advice and brokers usually receive a salary rather than a commission. Most discount brokers offer an online trading platform that attracts a growing number of self-directed investors. Such services usually charge $0 in commissions.



Full-service brokers offer a variety of services, including market research, investment advice, and retirement planning, on top of a full range of investment products. For that, investors can expect to pay higher commissions for their trades. Brokers receive compensation from the brokerage firm based on their trading volume as well as for the sale of investment products. An increasing number of brokers offer fee-based investment products, such as managed investment accounts.


   Real Estate Brokers  

In the real estate industry, a broker is a licensed real estate professional who typically represents the seller of a property. A broker's duties when working for a seller may include:



Determining the market values of properties.
Listing and advertising the property for sale.
Showing the property to prospective buyers.
Advising clients about offers, provisions, and related matters.
Submitting all offers to the seller for consideration.



It is not uncommon to have a real estate broker work for a buyer, in which case, the broker is responsible for:



Locating all properties in the buyer's desired area sorted by price range and criteria.Preparing an initial offer and purchase agreement for a buyer who decides to make an offer for a property.Negotiating with the seller on behalf of the buyer.Managing inspections on the property and negotiating repairs.Assisting the buyer through to closing and taking possession of the property.


   Broker Regulation  

Brokers register with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the broker-dealers’ self-regulatory body. In serving their clients, brokers are held to a standard of conduct based on the “suitability rule,” which requires there be reasonable grounds for recommending a specific product or investment. The second part of the rule, commonly referred to as “know your customer,” or KYC, addresses the steps a broker must use to identify their client and their savings goals, which helps them establish the reasonable grounds for the recommendation.



The broker must make a reasonable effort to obtain information on the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives, and other information used in making a recommendation.



This standard of conduct differs significantly from the standard applied to financial advisors registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as registered investment advisors (RIAs). Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, RIAs are held to a strict fiduciary standard to always act in the best interest of the client, while providing full disclosure of their fees.



Real estate brokers in the United States are licensed by each state, not by the federal government. Each state has its own laws defining the types of relationships that can exist between clients and brokers, and the duties of brokers to clients and members of the public.





$73,887

The median salary for a stock broker in the United States, according to Salary.com.


   Examples of Brokers  

Full-service brokers tend to use their role as a brokerage as an ancillary service available to high-net-worth clients along with many other services such as retirement planning or asset management. Examples of a full-service broker might include offerings from a company such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, or even Bank of America Merrill Lynch.



The larger brokerage firms tend to carry an inventory of shares available to their customers for sale. They do this to help reduce costs from exchange fees, but also because it allows them to offer rapid access to popularly held stocks. Other full-service broker firms are actually agency brokers. This means that unlike many larger brokers they carry no inventory of shares, but act as agents for their clients to get the best trade executions.



An example of this would be if a high-net-worth investor named Amy wanted to place a large buy order for Tesla Inc. (TSLA) stock. Amy would call or message her broker, telling them to execute the buy order of, say, 10,000 shares. This is an order in the millions of dollars so Amy feels more comfortable having a broker execute the trade directly.



The broker receives the order and if the brokerage has those shares available, they will most likely fill Amy's order immediately. If they don't they could buy those shares on the exchanges or from other brokerages. They may not place the order in the amount of 10,000, grabbing instead 500 to 1,000 shares at a time to deliver to Amy after the funds settle.




What Exactly Does a Broker Do?
A broker facilitates trades between individuals/companies and the exchanges where the broker is licensed. Depending on the nature of the trade and marketplace, a broker can either be a human being who is processing the trade themselves or a computer program that is only monitored by a human. Typically, stock trades are computerized whereas something like real estate requires a more personal touch.




Do Brokers Make Money?
Yes, brokers make money. The salary a broker receives depends on a lot of factors, mainly the worth of the clients they are servicing or if they are brokers for businesses such as commercial real estate owners and sellers. A typical stockbroker may make a salary and a commission on trades managed and has an average salary of around $74,000.




What Is a Broker and Why Do I Need One?
A broker is an intermediary between those who want to make trades and invest and the exchange in which those trades are processed. You need a broker because stock exchanges require that those who execute trades on the exchange be licensed. Another reason is a broker ensures a smooth trading experience between an investor and an exchange and, as is the case with discount brokers, usually won't charge a commission for normal trades.




Do Stock Brokers Make Good Money?
Stockbrokers make a solid income. With the average salary in the United States hovering around $58,000, the average salary of a stockbroker at around $73,000 is considerably higher. However, it is still a salary that might deflate those who dream of multi-million dollar




How Do You Become a Broker?
Becoming a broker depends on a few things. First, having a background or degree in finance or economics will be extremely helpful. This may get you noticed but in order to actually be hired and perform as a broker, you will need to be appropriately licensed.


   The Bottom Line  

Brokers make a decent salary, working through the day ensuring smooth transactions between their clients and the exchanges. Brokers can physically present trades but more often than not, brokers monitor trades from their computers and are only needed to intervene in the case of an exceptionally large or unique trade.
What Is a Broker-Dealer?  

A broker-dealer (B-D) is a person or firm in the business of buying and selling securities for its own account or on behalf of its customers. The term broker-dealer is used in U.S. securities regulation parlance to describe stock brokerages because most of them act as both agents and principals.



A brokerage acts as a broker (or agent) when it executes orders on behalf of its clients, whereas it acts as a dealer, or principal when it trades for its own account.





Key Takeaways

A broker-dealer is a financial entity that is engaged with trading securities on behalf of clients, but which may also trade for itself.A broker-dealer is acting as a broker or agent when it executes orders on behalf of its clients, and as a dealer or principal when it trades for its own account.There are thousands of broker-dealers comprising two broad categories: a wirehouse, which sells its own products, or an independent broker-dealer, which sells products from outside sources


   Understanding a Broker-Dealer  

Broker-dealers fulfill several important functions in the financial industry. These include providing investment advice to customers, supplying liquidity through market-making activities, facilitating trading activities, publishing investment research, and raising capital for companies. Broker-dealers range in size from small independent boutiques to large subsidiaries of giant commercial and investment banks.



There are two types of broker-dealers:



A wirehouse, or a firm that sells its own products to customers; and
An independent broker-dealer, or a firm that sells products from outside sources. 



There are over 3,975 broker-dealers to choose from, according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Some of the largest broker-dealers include Fidelity Investments, Charles Schwab, and Edward Jones.


   How a Broker-Dealer Works  

By definition, broker-dealers are buyers and sellers of securities, and they are also distributors of other investment products. As the name implies, they perform a dual role in carrying out their responsibilities. As dealers, they act on behalf of the brokerage firm, initiating transactions for the firm’s own account. As brokers, they handle transactions, buying and selling securities on behalf of their clients.



In their dual roles, they perform a couple of vital functions; they facilitate the free flow of securities on the open market, and they buy or sell securities in their own accounts to ensure there is a market in those securities for their clients. In this regard, broker-dealers are essential, and they are also well-compensated, earning a fee on either or both sides of a securities transaction.


   Special Considerations  

Broker-dealers that are tied directly to investment banking operations also engage in the underwriting of securities offerings. When a broker-dealer acts as an agent of the issuing company, either as a principal underwriter of the stock or bond offering, or as a member of the underwriting syndicate, they enter into a contractual arrangement, acting on a “firm commitment” with the issuer that obligates them to distribute a certain amount of the securities offered to the public in exchange for an underwriting fee.



They may also acquire a piece of the securities offering for their own accounts and may be required to do so if they are unable to sell all of the securities.



Once the underwriting process is completed and the securities are issued, the broker-dealers then become distributors, and their clients are typically the target of their distribution efforts. In that effort, the financial advisors of the firms then act as brokers to solicit their clients and recommend the purchase of the security for their accounts. In this regard, the broker-dealers are facilitating the interests of the issuer, themselves (in the collection of a distribution fee), and their clients, although their only contractual obligation is to the issuer.
What Is a Brokerage Account?  

A brokerage account is an investment account held at a licensed brokerage firm. An investor deposits funds into their brokerage account and the brokerage firm transacts orders for investments such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and exchange-traded-funds (ETFs) on their behalf.



The assets in investment accounts belong to the investors, who normally must report as taxable the income derived from the account.





Key Takeaways

Investors have different financial and investment needs and should choose their brokerage firms accordingly.Investors who desire advisory services may benefit from a full-service brokerage firm, which charges higher fees than other brokerages.Full-service firms charge either a flat fee based on the size of the account or commissions on the trades that they execute.Online brokerages charge lower fees and may suit investors who wish to conduct their own research, trades, and other account transactions.Robo-advisors offer financial planning, investing, and portfolio management using algorithms and minimal human intervention.


   Understanding Brokerage Accounts  

There are multiple types of brokerage accounts and brokerage firms, giving investors the opportunity to select the model that best suits their financial needs.



Some full-service brokers provide extensive investment advice and other services, and charge high fees. On the other end of the compensation spectrum, most online brokers simply provide a secure interface through which investors can place trade orders. They charge relatively low fees for this service. Robo-advisors are digital platforms that offer financial planning and investment services driven by algorithms, not people. Typically, they are low cost and require low account opening minimum amounts.



Brokerage accounts may differ in terms of order execution speed, analytical tools, the scope of tradable assets, and the extent to which investors can trade on margin.



In any type of brokerage, the most basic account is a cash account. This allows clients to buy investments using the money deposited in the account. However, you cannot sell short, buy on margin, trade options, or take advantage of other more sophisticated products. To do so, you need a margin account.



With a margin account, you can get a loan from your brokerage for additional purchases. The securities in your account serve as collateral. The brokerage charges regular maintenance interest on this loan, and it may request additional money from you immediately if the securities in the account lose too much value. This request is known as a margin call. If you cannot meet a margin call, your broker may be forced to sell securities in your account.


   Types of Brokerage Accounts  
  Full-Service Brokerage Accounts  

Investors seeking the expertise of a financial advisor can consider full-service brokerage firms such as Merrill, Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo Advisors, and UBS, among others. Financial advisors are paid to help their clients develop investment plans, execute their transactions, monitor their investments and the markets, and more. Financial advisors work on either a nondiscretionary basis, where clients must approve transactions, or a discretionary basis, where transactions don't require prior client approval.



Full-service brokerage accounts charge either commissions on trades or advisor fees. A commission account generates a fee anytime an investment is bought or sold, whether the recommendation came from the client or the advisor, and whether the trade is profitable or not.



By contrast, an advisor fee account involves flat annual fees ranging from 0.5% to 2% of the total account balance. In exchange for this fee, no commissions are charged when investments are bought or sold. Investors should discuss compensation models with financial advisors at the onset of relationships.






Do-it-yourself traders should be careful about trading low-volume stocks, which may not have enough liquidity to allow investors to enter or exit positions easily.


  Discount Brokerage Accounts  

Investors who favor a do-it-yourself investment approach might consider a discount brokerage firm. These firms charge significantly lower fees than their full-service counterparts. However, discount brokerage firms (such as Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade, E*TRADE, Vanguard, and Fidelity) offer fewer services in exchange for these lower fees. This, though, may suit investors who are most concerned with keeping costs low and executing trades via easy-to-use online trading platforms.



For example, an investor who decides on a typical discount broker can expect to open a regular taxable brokerage account (or retirement account) with a $500 minimum required amount. There is little or no commission charged to buy or sell most stocks, options, or ETFs. Some discount brokers may charge fees for non-U.S. stocks or thinly traded stocks, but this varies from one broker to the next.



The purchase of Treasury bonds typically involves no commission (but bonds traded in the secondary market may). Many brokers, including Schwab, Fidelity, and E*TRADE, offer a wide variety of mutual funds for no transaction cost as well.


  Robo-Advisor Accounts  

Robo-advisors are accounts where they, and not the account holder, select the investments using algorithms and without human participation. Moreover, those investments are usually restricted to mutual funds or ETFs. The cost can be around 0.25% of assets under management (AUM) per year. Required minimum amounts to open an account can range from $0 to $500 to $5,000 and up. Robo-advisors might be right for people who are new to investing as well as experienced investors who prefer a hands-off approach to portfolio management.


  Brokerage Accounts With a Regional Financial Advisor  

Those investors who prefer a personal relationship and a choice of services may also want to work with a brokerage firm that's part of their own community. They can consider a regional firm that falls between full-service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms on the cost scale. Such companies include Raymond James, Janney Montgomery Scott, and Edward Jones.



These brokerages act as broker-dealers and financial advisors. They can require a sizeable minimum account size and cater to individuals with a slightly higher net worth than other brokerages. Over time, though, their services tend to be less expensive than larger, full-size brokerages.


  Online Brokerage Accounts  

Online brokerages are a good choice for investors who prefer to select their own investments and execute their own trades via a website or mobile app. However, many also offer research and analysis tools to help investors make informed decisions. Many charge a per-transaction commission. Some charge no commissions.



Robinhood is an online broker that offers commission-free trading on stocks, ETFs, and options. The firm generates its revenue from payment for order flow (PFOF), margin interest, income from cash holdings, and more. PFOF is compensation a brokerage receives for directing trades to a specific market maker. The amount paid is usually a fraction of a penny per share.



Other zero-commission brokers include Charles Schwab, Fidelity, E*Trade, Vanguard, and TD Ameritrade.


  Cash Brokerage Accounts  

A cash brokerage account requires you to deposit cash in order to start trading. This account limits your options to the basics such as purchasing stock. For example, short-selling a stock is not possible within cash accounts. Cash accounts can be either discount or full-service accounts.


  Margin Accounts  

A margin account allows you to borrow money to start trading. The broker acts as a lender, and the borrowed funds allow for larger trades and more advanced trades, such as short-selling a stock. The investor pays interest on the loaned amount of money. The brokerage may demand an immediate deposit of funds from an investor if the value of their account drops below a specified level due to market behavior.



Margin accounts can also be discount or full-service brokerage accounts. While a margin account offers you more flexibility, there is some risk involved. If you are new to investing, it's best to stick with a cash account at first.






To choose the best brokerage for your needs, consider your investing style, your short- and long-terms goals, the types of investments you seek, and the level of service and support you want. Cost may drive the choice for some investors, whether they're novices or highly experienced.


   How to Open a Brokerage Account  

Opening a brokerage account is a simple process that takes just a few minutes. Once you've selected a firm and the type of account you want to open (taxable or tax-advantaged), get the following personal information ready:



Your Social Security number (or Tax Identification Number)Your driver’s license, passport, or other government-issued IDEmployment informationFinancial data (e.g., annual income, net worth)



The setup process will include questions about your financial needs, investment goals, investing style, and tolerance for risk.



Once you've created your profile and your account is open, you’ll need to fund your account.



Remember, to open an account, you have to have selected the brokerage that suits your needs. If you're still unsure, step back and consider, for instance, whether you're an engaged investor who follows the markets daily. Or someone who wants to leave that to others. Do you take a conservative (income-focused) or aggressive (growth-focused) approach to investing? Are you investing for short-term goals or retirement? How easy is it to use a broker's website? Understanding such topics can help you choose a firm as well as decide on whether to open a taxable brokerage account or a tax-advantaged retirement account.


   Standard Brokerage Account vs. IRA Brokerage Account  

Investors can open a standard brokerage account and an IRA brokerage account. In fact, you can open an IRA even if you already have a workplace retirement plan, such as a 401(k). That's a great idea because it gives you an additional tax-advantaged opportunity to save for retirement.



Knowing the difference between a standard brokerage account and an IRA account opened at a brokerage can help you decide whether you should open one or the other—or both.


  Standard Brokerage Account  

The standard brokerage account is a taxable account.You can deposit as much money as you wish, as often as you wish.Deposits are not tax deductible and, for the most part, earnings on your investments are taxable as capital gains.You can invest in any securities offered by your brokerage.Beyond deposits, the account's flexibility extends to withdrawing funds at any time.It's used for all kinds of purposes, e.g., to build wealth over the long-term and reach short-term financial goals, such as buying a home.


  Brokerage IRA Account  

An IRA account is a tax-advantaged account.
You're restricted to an annual contribution cap.
A traditional IRA allows for tax-deductible contributions but investors pay income taxes on withdrawals in retirement. A Roth IRA involves after-tax contributions (meaning, they are not tax deductible) but investors can withdraw tax-free money in retirement.
Earnings in an IRA grow undiminished by taxes.
You can invest in a wide range of securities offered by your brokerage.
Beyond the restriction on contribution amounts, IRAs have regulations governing when you can withdraw funds, without penalty.
It's used to invest for long-term retirement savings goals.




How Can I Open a Brokerage Account?
Opening a brokerage account online is a fairly quick and easy process. You have to register on the brokerage site and provide some required personal information such as your address, date of birth, and Social Security number. Account approvals happen fast, and the next step is to fund your new account, which also can be done online via Automated Clearing House (ACH) or wire transfer.




Is It Dangerous to Have a Margin Account?
A margin account involves more risk than a cash account where you buy shares of stock with your own money. A margin account is dangerous if you borrow too much and the market turns against you. A resulting margin call for additional money may be difficult for you to meet. Brokers can sell securities in your account to meet the call if you don't deposit the funds.




Can I Have Multiple Brokerage Accounts?
Yes, although there are pros and cons to having your assets invested in several places. You can have multiple accounts at a single broker. Or you might choose to, for example, use one broker for long-term investing and another for trading or short-term plays.




Which Brokerage Accounts Let Me Trade for Free?
Since Robinhood opened the doors to commission-free trading, dozens of online brokerage platforms have followed suit. These include major names such as Schwab, TD Ameritrade, E*TRADE, and Fidelity. Some fees other than trading commissions may apply.




How Does a Brokerage Account Differ From a Bank Account?
Brokerage accounts hold securities such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and some cash. A bank account only holds cash deposits. A bank account lets you write checks and use a debit card. Some brokerage accounts also provide a debit card and allow you to write checks. Many bank accounts are FDIC-insured for up to $250,000. Brokerage accounts usually have SIPC protection, which can help recover some value of such accounts if a brokerage goes under.


   The Bottom Line  

A brokerage account is an investment account that investors open at a brokerage firm and use to buy and sell investment securities. They can be a key to wealth-building.



Brokerage accounts can be used to purchase, hold, and sell stocks, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, and more. Investors can open a standard brokerage account and/or an IRA brokerage account, in addition to having a retirement plan at work, to maximize their saving and investing opportunities.
What Is a Brokerage Firm?  

A brokerage firm or brokerage company is a middleman who connects buyers and sellers to complete a transaction for stock shares, bonds, options, and other financial instruments.



Brokers are compensated in commissions or fees that are charged once the transaction has been completed.



Most discount brokerages now offer their customers zero-commission stock trading. The companies make up for this loss of revenue from other sources, including payments from the exchanges for large quantities of orders and trading fees for other products like mutual funds and bonds.





Key Takeaways

A brokerage company primarily acts as a middleman, connecting buyers and sellers to facilitate a transaction.Full-service brokerage companies are compensated via a flat annual fee or fees per transaction.Online brokers offer a set amount of free stock trading but charge fees for other services.The lines are blurring, with full-service brokers launching phone apps and online discount brokers adding fee-based services.






Brokers may work for brokerage companies or operate as independent agents.


   Understanding Brokerage Firms  

In a perfect market in which every party had all of the necessary information, there would be no need for brokerage firms. That is impossible in a market that has a huge number of participants making transactions at split-second intervals. The Nasdaq alone has in excess of 30 million trades per day.



Brokerage companies exist to help their clients match two sides for a trade, bringing together buyers and sellers at the best price possible for each and extracting a commission for their service. Full-service brokerages offer additional services, including advice and research on a wide range of financial products.


   Types of Brokerages  

The amount you pay a broker depends on the level of service you receive, how personalized the services are, and whether they involve direct contact with human beings rather than computer algorithms.


  Full-Service Brokerage  

Full-service brokerages, also known as traditional brokerages, offer a range of products and services including money management, estate planning, tax advice, and financial consultation.



These companies also offer stock quotes, research on economic conditions, and market analysis. Highly trained and credentialed professional brokers and financial advisers are available to advise their clients on money matters.



Traditional brokerages charge a fee, a commission, or both. For regular stock orders, full-service brokers may charge up to $10 to $20 per trade. However, many are switching to a wrap-fee business model in which all services, including stock trades, are covered by an all-inclusive annual fee. The fee averages 1% to 3% of assets under management (AUM).



Many full-service brokers seek out affluent clients and establish minimum account balances that are required to obtain their services, often starting at six figures or more.



Some full-service brokerages offer a lower-cost discount brokerage option as well.



Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, Morgan Stanley, and Edward Jones are among the big names in full-service brokerages.


  Discount Brokerage  

A discount brokerage is an online brokerage. The online broker's automated network is the middleman, handling buy and sell orders that are input directly by the investor.



The introduction of the first discount brokerage is often attributed to Charles Schwab Corp., which launched its first website in 1995. Competitors soon appeared.



As they have evolved, the brokerages have added tiered services at premium prices. Fierce competition on the web and, later, on phone apps, have led most competitors to drop their fees to zero for basic stock trading services.



Charles Schwab remains one of the biggest names in online brokerages, along with others including Fidelity Investments, TD Ameritrade,



The same names pop up for mobile brokerage apps, along with newer competitors such as Robinhood and Acorns.


  Robo-Advisors  

A robo-advisor is an online investment platform that uses algorithms to implement trading strategies on behalf of its clients in an automated process.



It's not quite as insane as it sounds. Most robo-advisors are programmed to follow long-term passive index strategies, although several robo-advisors allow clients to modify their investment strategy somewhat if they want more active management. Some even have human advisors waiting in the wings.



Robo-advisors have their appeal, not the least of which is very low entry fees and account balance requirements. Most charge no annual fee, zero commissions, and set their account requirements to a few dollars.



Access to an advisor comes with a fee, typically 0.25% to 0.50% of AUM per year. That's still far less than the cost of a traditional broker.


   Independent vs. Captive Brokerage  

If you're buying or selling certain financial products, including mutual funds and insurance, it's important to know whether your broker is affiliated with certain companies and sells only its products or can sell you the full range of choices.



You should also find out whether that broker holds to the fiduciary standard or the suitability standard. The suitability standard requires the broker to recommend actions that are suitable to your personal and financial circumstances. The higher fiduciary standard requires the broker to act in your best interests.


  Independent Brokerage  

Registered investment advisors (RIAs) are the most common type of independent broker found today.



Independent brokerages are not affiliated with a mutual fund company. They may be able to recommend and sell products that are better for the client.



They are required to hold to the fiduciary standard, meaning that they must recommend the investments most in the client's best interest.


  Captive Brokerage  

A captive brokerage is affiliated with or employed by a mutual fund company or insurance company and can sell only their products. These brokers are employed to recommend and sell the range of products that the mutual or insurance company owns.



The products they recommend may not be the best choice available to the client.




Is It Worth It to Use a Full-Service Broker?
People who use full-service brokers want the advice and attention of an expert to guide their financial affairs. These are usually complex, as these clients tend to be high-net-worth individuals with complex financial affairs. They are willing and able to pay an average of 1% to 3% of their assets per year for the service.People who use an online discount broker may feel confident in their ability to handle their own finances and make their own decisions.




How Does a Brokerage Firm Work?
A broker is essentially a middleman. Brokers match buyers with sellers, complete the transaction between the two parties, and pocket a fee for their service.If you use an online brokerage to buy stock, there's no human standing between you and the transaction. The brokerage software makes the match.If you use a full-service brokerage, the process is much the same, except that someone else is pressing the keys on the keyboard. However, the full-service brokerage may have identified a good investment opportunity, discussed it with the client, and acted in the client's behalf in making the transaction.




How Does a Brokerage Firm Make Money?
Generally, brokerages make fees for every transaction. The online broker who offers free stock trades receives fees for other services, plus fees from the exchanges.Full-service brokerages increasingly charge a so-called wrap fee, an all-in-one charge for all or most services, This is usually 1% to 3% of the amount in the client's account per year and covers advisory services and investment research as well as trading fees.
What Is a Brokerage Fee?  

A brokerage fee is a fee or commission a broker charges to execute transactions or provide specialized services on behalf of clients. Brokers charge brokerage fees for services such as purchases, sales, consultations, negotiations, and delivery.



There are many instances of brokerage fees charged in various industries such as financial services, insurance, real estate, and delivery services, among others.





Key Takeaways

A broker or agent charges a brokerage fee to execute transactions or provide specialized services.Brokerage fees are based on a percentage of the transaction, as a flat fee, or as a hybrid of the two, and vary according to the industry and type of broker.The three main types of financial securities industry brokers that charge brokerage fees are full-service, discount, and online.Today, many online brokerage platforms offer $0 brokerage fees for listed stocks and ETFs.


   Understanding Brokerage Fees  

Brokerage fees, also known as broker fees, are based on a percentage of the transaction, as a flat fee, or as a hybrid of the two. Brokerage fees vary according to the industry and type of broker.



In the real estate industry, a brokerage fee is typically a flat fee or a standard percentage charged to the buyer, the seller, or both. Mortgage brokers help potential borrowers find and secure mortgage loans; their associated fees are between 1% and 2% of the loan amount.



In the insurance industry, a broker, unlike an agent, represents the interests of the customer and not the insurer. Brokers find the best insurance policies to meet customers' needs and will charge fees for their services. In rare instances, brokers may collect fees from both the insurer and the individual buying the insurance policy.



In the financial securities industry, a brokerage fee is charged to facilitate trading or to administer investment or other accounts. The three main types of brokers that charge brokerage fees are full-service, discount, and online.


   Stock Brokerage Fee Breakdown  
  Full-Service Brokerage Fees  

Full-service brokers offer a wide range of products and services such as estate planning, tax consultation and preparation, and other financial services. As a result, they earn the largest brokerage fees. Not so long ago, it was not uncommon for a full-service broker to charge upward of $100 per trade for orders placed with a human broker.



The standard commission for full-service brokers today is between 1% to 2% of a client’s managed assets. For example, Tim wants to purchase 100 shares of Company A at $40 per share. Tim's broker earns a commission of $80 for facilitating the transaction ($40/share x 100 shares = $4,000, $4,000 x .02 commission = $80). When the commission is added, the total cost of the trade is $4,000 + $80 = $4,080.



A 12B-1 fee is a recurring fee that a broker receives for selling a mutual fund. The fees range from 0.25% to 1.00% of the total value of the trade. Annual maintenance fees range from 0.25% to 1.5% of the assets.


  Discount Brokerage Fees  

Because discount brokers offer a narrower selection of products and provide no investment advice, they charge lower fees than full-service brokers do. Discount brokers charge a flat fee for each trade transaction. The per-trade flat fee ranges from less than $5 to more than $30 per trade. Account maintenance fees are usually around 0.5% per year based on assets held.


  Online Brokerage Fees  

Online brokers have the least expensive brokerage fees. Their primary role is to allow investors to conduct online trading. Customer service is limited. Many online brokers have removed a specific commission fee for trades on stock shares, but commission fees for options or futures trades still apply. The fees vary and may be based on a per-contract or per-share charge. Account maintenance fees vary between $0 to $50 per account per year.


   Reduction of Brokerage Fees to Zero  

Investors can reduce account maintenance fees by comparing brokers, their provided services, and their fees. Buying no-load mutual funds or fee-free investments can help avoid per-trade fees. It is important to read the fine print or fee schedule and ask questions about any fees charged.



Today, many online platforms like Robinhood offer $0 trading in many stocks and ETFs (as well as many others that have since joined the commission-free movement). The disappearance of outright brokerage fees for trades has been the result of intense competition resulting in fee compression. These services instead make money by selling your order flow or loaning your stock positions to short sellers.



Fees for money management have also been compressed through online services called roboadvisors, which use algorithms to automatically establish and maintain an optimal investment portfolio. These services charge far less than a human advisor, generally between 0.25% and 0.50% per year based on assets held, with some even lower.




Is It Normal to Pay a Brokerage Fee?
Traditionally, most investors and traders had to pay fees to their brokers to execute trades and maintain their accounts. With the advent of Internet-based trading, online account management, and fierce competition among brokerage firms, today's fees on most stock and ETF trades have dropped to zero at several platforms.




Which Brokers Charge $0 Fees on Stock Trades?
Robinhood was the first large online broker to offer free trading in stocks and ETFs in 2015 when its app officially launched. Since then, many brokerages have followed suit, including Charles Schwab, Fidelity, Merrill Edge, E*TRADE, Interactive Brokers, TD Ameritrade, Webull, J.P. Morgan, Vanguard, SoFi, and Ally Invest (among others).Note that many of these platforms still charge commissions for trading in OTC stocks, options, futures, or other non-stock securities.




What Is a Typical Commission for Options Trades?
Many brokers charge a fixed commission plus a per-contract fee for options trades. This could be something like $5.95 + $1.00 per contract (so, the total fee on a 10-lot trade would be $5.95 + $10 = $15.95). The exact commission structure will vary based on your broker and the level of trading that you do with them. For example, E•TRADE charges $0.65 per contract but reduces it to $0.50 per contract for accounts with more than 30 trades in a month.




What Is the Typical Brokerage Fee for a Real Estate Deal?
Realtors and real estate brokers typically charge around 5% to 6% of the selling price of a house. This is often split between the seller's agent and the buyer's agent. Some discount real estate brokerages may charge a lower rate or instead offer a fixed-fee service.


   The Bottom Line  

Brokerage fees are the cost of doing business with a broker and can take away from the returns of your portfolio. When choosing a broker, take the time to assess the services you're receiving and whether the cost of those services benefit you. Additionally, consider if any other fees are necessary or just in the interest of the broker. Today, through online brokers, brokerage fees for simple stock investing are very low or nonexistent, allowing you to keep larger portions of your investment returns.
What Is a Brown Bag Meeting?  

A brown bag meeting is an informal meeting or training that generally occurs in the workplace around lunchtime. This type of meeting is referred to as a brown bag meeting or a brown bag seminar because participants typically bring their lunches, which are associated with being packed in brown paper bags.



Meetings of this kind don't necessarily have to occur during the lunch hour and can take place at any time during the workday or after hours. They usually are held in conference rooms.





Key Takeaways

A brown bag meeting is an informal meeting that takes place in the workplace, generally around lunchtime.Brown bag meetings are typically informal training and learning sessions offered by employers.Topics for brown bag meetings can be work-related or geared to help employees with their lives outside of work.The seminar, small group meeting, hybrid meeting, and social meeting are the four most common types of brown bag meetings.Brown bag meetings foster the sharing of information and teamwork and help ensure a consistent message is delivered.


   Understanding Brown Bag Meetings  

Brown bag meetings are informal training and learning sessions offered by employers to their staff. These meetings are also called lunch and learn sessions.



The brown bag meeting is an efficient and straightforward way for corporations to save money while training or informing staff. The underlying assumption is that employees will bring their own lunch to the meeting. Formal meetings are usually catered or held offsite, with the company assuming all dining costs. Depending on the number of attendees, these costs can be significant. 



Other organizations, such as nonprofits and academic institutions, also offer brown bag meetings. These meetings are usually informative, range from one to four hours, and have a small number of participants.


   Types of Brown Bag Meetings  

There are four primary types of brown bag meetings.



A seminar meeting is the most common and usually includes a guest speaker or expert who transfers their knowledge and experience about a specific topic to the gathering. This format often includes a short question-and-answer period at the end of the session.



In a small group meeting, each participant answers a single question or a set of pre-defined questions. Other attendees may comment, ask for more information or clarity, and discuss the responses. The process continues until all participants answer the topic questions. This format allows for the maximum transfer of knowledge and experience and reinforces group dynamics. Small group meetings are frequently referred to as workshops.






Brown bag meetings promote accuracy and consistency as the audience receives the same message or training.



A combination meeting is a hybrid of a seminar and a small group meeting. The meeting starts with a speaker presenting a key topic for the meeting. The remaining time is spent operating in a small group format. The small group format is useful for problem-solving, brainstorming, and team-building. The attendees will frequently reconvene, and each small group will present its findings to the group at large.



The social meeting type allows participants the opportunity to get to know each other in a relaxed setting. Participants may learn each person’s role and career objectives. This format builds trust and promotes cohesiveness.



These meetings can also help disseminate topics not specifically related to work but that can be useful for employees. These include healthy living, investing, retirement options, technology-related topics, and safety outside the workplace.



Simply put, there is no limit to what employers can cover during these informal meetings.


   The Benefits of Brown Bag Meetings  

Brown bag meetings promote dialogue and information sharing among participants. Sharing among participants enhances training and ensures consistent dissemination of information.



They also promote teamwork, reinforce company values and missions, and increase employee morale. They can also help employees learn about and develop important skills they can use outside the workplace.



The sessions can be structured or unstructured and are often used to transfer knowledge, solve problems, brainstorm, and build trust among attendees.



Meetings may include presentations. They may also be led by speakers who provide expert advice, discuss policy changes, or talk about innovative products and services. Brown bag meetings are useful for cross-training, project management initiatives, and cross-functional team meetings.






Most brown bag meetings take place to inform employees about important work-related issues, including human resources training and policy changes.


   Brown Bag Meeting FAQs  
  How Do You Run a Brown Bag Session?  

Brown bag sessions are informal business meetings or training usually held in an office setting during lunchtime. Participants are allowed or even encouraged to bring their own lunch since the organizer will not cater food. To keep the session organized, consider appointing a moderator. They help facilitate discussions between participants and the speaker or trainer and ensure that the schedule is adhered to.


  What Does Brown Bag Mean?  

A brown bag meeting is an informal business meeting or training, occurring around lunchtime. The term brown bag refers to the practice of employees bringing brown-bagged lunches to these meetings.


  What Is the Purpose of a Seminar?  

A seminar is a meeting or training in which a guest or expert speaker presents a specific topic relevant to their audience and allows participants to engage in discussion.


  Where Does the Term “Brown Bag” Come From?  

The term brown bag refers to the brown bag lunches that employees would bring to informal business meetings and training.
What Is a Brownfield Investment?  

A brownfield (also known as "brown-field") investment is when a company or government entity purchases or leases existing production facilities to launch a new production activity. This is one strategy used in foreign direct investment.



The alternative to this is a greenfield investment, in which a new plant is constructed. The clear advantage of a brownfield investment strategy is that the buildings are already constructed. The costs and time of starting up may thus be greatly reduced and the buildings already up to code.



Brownfield land, however, may have been abandoned or left unused for good cause, such as pollution, soil contamination, or the presence of hazardous materials.





Key Takeaways

When a company or government entity purchases or leases existing production facilities to launch a new production activity, it is called a brownfield investment.Greenfield investments, unlike brownfields, undertake new construction of property, plant, and equipment.A brownfield investment is a common form of foreign direct investment (FDI).Brownfield investments come with many advantages, such as buildings already having been constructed, reduced time of startup, reduced costs, and buildings that are up to code.Brownfield land could also be contaminated from prior use from pollution, hazardous material, or other contaminants.When a property owner has no intention of allowing further use of vacant brownfield property, it is referred to as a mothballed brownfield.


   Understanding a Brownfield Investment  

Brownfield investing covers both the purchase and the lease of existing facilities. At times, this approach may be preferable, as the structure already stands. Not only can it result in cost savings for the investing business, but it can also avoid certain steps that are required to build new facilities on empty lots, such as building permits and connecting utilities.






Brownfield sites may be found in unattractive locations, making it harder to develop for the public or employees. So if investors can’t be attracted, it won’t be able to sustain itself.



The term brownfield refers to the fact that the land itself may be contaminated by the prior activities that have taken place on the site, a side effect of which may be the lack of vegetation on the property. When a property owner has no intention of allowing further use of vacant brownfield property, it is referred to as a mothballed brownfield. Sites that are significantly contaminated, such as by extreme hazardous waste, are not considered to be brownfield properties.


   Brownfield Investment and Foreign Direct Investment  

Brownfield investing is common when a company looks toward a foreign direct investment (FDI) option. Often, a company considers facilities that are either no longer in use or are not running at full capacity as options for new or additional production.






The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has a program known as the "Brownfields and Land Revitalization Program" that seeks to revitalize land by providing grants and technical assistance.



While additional equipment may be required, or existing equipment may need to be modified, this can often be more cost-effective than building a new facility from the ground up. This is especially true in cases where the previous use is similar in nature to the new intended use.



The addition of new equipment is still considered part of a brownfield investment, while the addition of any new facilities to complete production do not qualify as brownfield. Instead, new facilities are considered greenfield investing.


   Brownfield vs. Greenfield Investing  

While brownfield investing involves the use of previously constructed facilities that were once in use for another purpose, greenfield investing covers any situation in which new facilities are added to previously vacant land. The term greenfield relates to the idea that, before the construction of a new facility, the land may have literally been a green field, such as an empty pasture, covered in green foliage prior to use.


   The Disadvantages of Brownfield Investments  

Brownfield investments can run the risk of leading to buyer's remorse. Even if the premises had been previously used for a similar operation, it is rare that a company looking finds a facility with the type of capital equipment and technology to suit its purposes completely. If the property is leased, there may be limitations on what kinds of improvements can be made.
What Is a Bubble?  

A bubble is an economic cycle that is characterized by the rapid escalation of market value, particularly in the price of assets. This fast inflation is followed by a quick decrease in value, or a contraction, that is sometimes referred to as a "crash" or a "bubble burst."



Typically, a bubble is created by a surge in asset prices that is driven by exuberant market behavior. During a bubble, assets typically trade at a price, or within a price range, that greatly exceeds the asset's intrinsic value (the price does not align with the fundamentals of the asset).



The cause of bubbles is disputed by economists; some economists even disagree that bubbles occur at all (on the basis that asset prices frequently deviate from their intrinsic value). However, bubbles are usually only identified and studied in retrospect, after a massive drop in prices occurs.


   How a Bubble Works  

An economic bubble occurs any time that the price of a good rises far above the item's real value. Bubbles are typically attributed to a change in investor behavior, although what causes this change in behavior is debated.



Bubbles in equities markets and economies cause resources to be transferred to areas of rapid growth. At the end of a bubble, resources are moved again, causing prices to deflate.



The Japanese economy experienced a bubble in the 1980s after the country's banks were partially deregulated. This caused a huge surge in the prices of real estate and stock prices. The dot-com boom, also called the dot-com bubble, was a stock market bubble in the late 1990s. It was characterized by excessive speculation in Internet-related companies. During the dot-com boom, people bought technology stocks at high prices—believing they could sell them at a higher price—until confidence was lost and a large market correction occurred.





Key Takeaways

A bubble is an economic cycle that is characterized by the rapid escalation of market value, particularly in the price of assets.This fast inflation is followed by a quick decrease in value, or a contraction, that is sometimes referred to as a "crash" or a "bubble burst."Bubbles are typically attributed to a change in investor behavior, although what causes this change in behavior is debated.



The research of American economist Hyman P. Minsky helps to explain the development of financial instability and provides one explanation of the characteristics of financial crises. Through his research, Minsky identified five stages in a typical credit cycle. While his theories went largely under-the-radar for many decades, the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008 renewed interest in his formulations, which also help to explain some of the patterns of a bubble.


  Displacement  

This stage takes place when investors start to notice a new paradigm, like a new product or technology, or historically low interest rates. This can be basically anything that gets their attention. 


  Boom  

Prices start to rise. Then, they get even more momentum as more investors enter the market. This sets up the stage for the boom. There is an overall sense of failing to jump in, causing even more people to start buying assets. 


  Euphoria  

When euphoria hits and asset prices skyrocket, it could be said that caution on the part of investors is mostly thrown out the window. 


  Profit-Taking  

Figuring out when the bubble will burst isn’t easy; once a bubble has burst, it will not inflate again. But anyone who can identify the early warning signs will make money by selling off positions. 


  Panic  

Asset prices change course and drop (sometimes as rapidly as they rose). Investors want to liquidate them at any price. Asset prices decline as supply outshines demand. 


   Examples of Bubbles  

Recent history includes two very consequential bubbles: the dot-com bubble of the 1990s and the housing bubble between 2007 and 2008. However, the first recorded speculative bubble, which occurred in Holland from 1634 to 1637, provides an illustrative lesson that applies to the modern-day.


  Tulip Mania  

While it may seem absurd to suggest that a flower could bring down a whole economy, that is exactly what happened in Holland in the early 1600s. The tulip bulb trade initially started by accident. A botanist brought tulip bulbs from Constantinople and planted them for his own scientific research. Neighbors then stole the bulbs and began selling them. The wealthy began to collect some of the rarer varieties as a luxury good. As their demand increased, the prices of bulbs surged. Some rare varieties of tulips commanded astronomical prices.



Bulbs were traded for anything with a store of value, including homes and acreage. At its peak, tulip mania had created such a frenzy that fortunes were made overnight. The creation of a futures exchange, where tulips were bought and sold through contracts with no actual delivery, fueled the speculative pricing.



The bubble burst when a seller arranged a big purchase with a buyer, and the buyer failed to show. At this point, it was clear that price increases were unsustainable. This created a panic that spiraled throughout Europe, driving the worth of any tulip bulb down to a tiny fraction of its recent price. Dutch authorities stepped in to calm the panic by allowing contract holders to be freed from their contracts for 10% of the contract value. In the end, fortunes were lost by noblemen and laymen alike.


  Dot-Com Bubble  

The dot-com bubble was characterized by a rise in equity markets that was fueled by investments in internet and technology-based companies. It grew out of a combination of speculative investing and the overabundance of venture capital going into startup companies. Investors started to pour money into internet startups in the 1990s, with the express hope that they would be profitable. 



As technology advanced and the internet started to be commercialized, startup companies in the Internet and technology sector helped fuel the surge in the stock market that began in 1995. The subsequent bubble was formed by cheap money and easy capital. Many of these companies barely generated any profits or even a significant product. Regardless, they were able to offer initial public offerings (IPOs). Their stock prices saw incredible highs, creating a frenzy among interested investors. 



But as the market peaked, panic among investors ensued. This led to about a 10% loss in the stock market. The capital that was once easy to obtain started to dry up; companies with millions in market capitalization became worthless in a very short amount of time. As the year 2001 ended, a good portion of the public dot-com companies had folded.


  U.S. Housing Bubble   

The U.S. housing bubble was a real estate bubble that affected more than half of the United States in the mid-2000s. It was partially the result of the dot-com bubble. As the markets began to crash, values in real estate started to rise. At the same time, the demand for homeownership started to grow at almost alarming levels. Interest rates started to decline. A concurrent force was a lenient approach on the part of lenders; this meant that almost anyone could become a homeowner.



Banks reduced their requirements to borrow and started to lower their interest rates. Adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) became a favorite, with low introductory rates and refinancing options within three to five years. Many people started to buy homes, and some people flipped them for profits. But when the stock market began to rise again, interest rates also started to rise. For homeowners with ARMs, their mortgages started to refinance at higher rates. The value of these homes took a nosedive, which triggered a sell-off in mortgage-backed securities (MBSs). This eventually led to an environment that resulted in millions of dollars in mortgage defaults.
What Is a Budget?  

The term budget refers to an estimation of revenue and expenses over a specified future period of time and is usually compiled and re-evaluated on a periodic basis. Budgets can be made for any entity that wants to spend money, including governments and businesses, along with people and households at any income level.



To manage your monthly expenses, prepare for life's unpredictable events, and be able to afford big-ticket items without going into debt, budgeting is important. Keeping track of how much you earn and spend doesn't have to be drudgery, doesn't require you to be good at math, and doesn't mean you can't buy the things you want. It just means that you'll know where your money goes, and you'll have greater control over your finances.





Key Takeaways

A budget is an estimation of revenue and expenses over a specified future period of time and is utilized by governments, businesses, and individuals at any income level.A budget is basically a financial plan for a defined period, normally a year that is known to greatly enhance the success of any financial undertaking.Corporate budgets are essential for operating at peak efficiency.Aside from earmarking resources, a budget can also aid in setting goals, measuring outcomes, and planning contingencies.Personal budgets are extremely useful in managing an individual's or family's finances over both the short and long-term horizon.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Budgeting  

A budget is a microeconomic concept that shows the trade-off made when one good is exchanged for another. In terms of the bottom line—or the end result of this trade-off—a surplus budget means profits are anticipated, a balanced budget means revenues are expected to equal expenses, and a deficit budget means expenses will exceed revenues.


   How to Budget in 7 Steps  

The specifics of your budget will depend on your personal financial situation and goals. In most cases, though, the steps for creating a budget are the same. You can make a budget by following seven simple steps.



Add up your total income. This should include all sources, such as a paycheck, tips, Social Security, disability, alimony, or investment income.
Track your spending. Spend a month keeping track of everything you spend, whether you pay with a credit card or cash, to find what your real expenses are. Be sure to include automatic payments, subscriptions, and utilities.
Set financial goals. Do you want to save money? Pay off debt? Stop overspending? Decide on realistic goals. Remember, you can adjust these over time. Pick the most pressing goals, such as paying off debt or creating an emergency fund, first.
Calculate mandatory expenses. These are expenses you must pay each month, such as rent, insurance premiums, taxes, childcare, or your cell phone bill. Subtract these from your total income.
Identify debt payments. If you are paying off debt, such as student loans or a credit card bill, find the minimum payment for each debt. Subtract that from your income as well.
Make a spending plan. The amount of income you have left is what you can spend on discretionary expenses. These can include your goals, such as debt payment or savings. It should also include things like groceries, entertainment, gas, or surprise expenses. Give every dollar a job, based on your goals and what you discovered when you tracked your spending.
Adjust each month. Each month, look at your spending and goals, Reevaluate and adjust where you assign your discretionary spending. A flexible budget will help you avoid overspending.


   Corporate Budgets  

Budgets are an integral part of running any business efficiently and effectively.


  Budget Development Process  

The process begins by establishing assumptions for the upcoming budget period. These assumptions are related to projected sales trends, cost trends, and the overall economic outlook of the market, industry, or sector. Specific factors affecting potential expenses are addressed and monitored.



The budget is published in a packet that outlines the standards and procedures used to develop it, including the assumptions about the markets, key relationships with vendors that provide discounts, and explanations of how certain calculations were made.



The sales budget is often the first to be developed, as subsequent expense budgets cannot be established without knowing future cash flows. Budgets are developed for all the different subsidiaries, divisions, and departments within an organization. For a manufacturer, a separate budget is often developed for direct materials, labor, and overhead.



All budgets get rolled up into the master budget, which also includes budgeted financial statements, forecasts of cash inflows and outflows, and an overall financing plan. At a corporation, the top management reviews the budget and submits it for approval to the board of directors.


  Static vs. Flexible Budgets  

There are two major types of budgets: static budgets and flexible budgets. A static budget remains unchanged over the life of the budget. Regardless of changes that occur during the budgeting period, all accounts and figures originally calculated remain the same.



A flexible budget has a relational value to certain variables. The dollar amounts listed on a flexible budget change based on sales levels, production levels, or other external economic factors.



Both types of budgets are useful for management. A static budget evaluates the effectiveness of the original budgeting process, while a flexible budget provides deeper insight into business operations.





Advisor Insight

Derek Notman, CFP®, ChFC, CLUIntrepid Wealth Partners, LLC, Madison, WI
The importance of budgeting cannot be understated. A budget, also known as cash flow, is arguably more important than the actual cash that you have in your bank and investment accounts. Your cash flow is what allows you to pay for everything (or not).
Without knowing your cash flow, you could be putting yourself into a bad financial situation and not even know it. You can only get by without knowing your cash flow for so long before you get into financial trouble, so make the time you know the flow of your cash. Budgeting should be something that everyone does, regardless of their financial situation.


   Personal Budgets  

Individuals and families can have budgets, too. Creating and using a budget is not just for those who need to closely monitor their cash flows from month to month because money is tight. Almost everyone can benefit from budgeting—even people with large paychecks and plenty of money in the bank.



Budgeting is a wonderful tool for managing your finances, but many people think it's not for them. Below is a list of budget myths—the erroneous logic that stops people from keeping track of their finances and allocating money in the best way.


  1. I Don't Need to Budget  

Having a handle on your monthly income and expenses allows you to make sure your hard-earned money is being put to its highest and best purpose. For those who enjoy an income that covers all bills with money left over, a budget can help maximize savings and investments.



If one's monthly expenses typically consume the lion's share of net income, any budget should focus on identifying and classifying all the expenses that occur during the month, quarter, and year. And for people whose cash flow is tight, it can be crucial for identifying expenses that could be reduced or cut, and minimizing any wasteful interest being paid on credit cards or other debt.


  2. I'm Not Good at Math  

Thanks to budgeting software, you don't have to be good at math; you simply have to be able to follow instructions. Many of these programs are free and legitimate. If you know how to use spreadsheet software, you can make your own ledger. It's as simple as creating one column for your income, another column for your expenses, and then keeping a running tab on the difference between the two.


  3. My Job Is Secure  

No one's job is truly safe. If you work for a corporation, being laid off due to downsizing or a takeover always is a possibility. If you work for a small company, it could die with its owner, be bought out, or just fold.



You should always be prepared for a job loss by having at least three months' worth of living expenses in the bank. It's easier to accumulate this financial cushion if you know the amount you're bringing in and spending each month, which can be monitored with a budget.


  4. Unemployment Insurance Will Tide Me Over  

Unemployment compensation is not a sure thing. Let's say a bad situation at work leaves you with no choice but to quit your job. Unless you can prove constructive discharge (that is, you were virtually forced to resign), your departure will be considered voluntary, making you ineligible for unemployment insurance. Besides, the benefits may fall well short of the wages you're used to: for most states, they average between $300 and $500 per week.


  5. I Don't Want to Deprive Myself  

Budgeting is not synonymous with spending as little money as possible or making yourself feel guilty about every purchase. The aim of budgeting is to make sure you're able to save a little each month, ideally at least 10% of your income, or at the very least, to make sure that you aren't spending more than you earn.



Unless you're on a very tight budget, you should be able to buy baseball tickets and go out to eat. Tracking your expenses does not change the amount of money you have available to spend every month; it just tells you where that money is going.


  6. I Don't Want Anything Big  

If you don't have any major savings goals (upsizing your living situation, starting your own business, etc.), it's hard to drum up the motivation to stash away extra cash each month. However, your situation and your attitudes likely will change over time.



Let's say you and your partner live in New York City in a small one-bedroom apartment and things are going fine for the both of you until your family dynamic changes. For instance, you may have a child or an in-law who comes to stay with you indefinitely, which means you'll probably need (and want) more room to accommodate the new addition. If you don't save up for anything big, you may not be able to afford this change in your living situation later on down the road.


  7. I Won't Qualify for Student Financial Aid  

Yes, the catch-22 of student financial aid is that the more money you have, the less aid you'll be eligible for. That's enough to make anyone wonder if it isn't better to just spend it all and have no savings in order to qualify for the maximum amount of grants and loans.



But that catch mainly applies to earned income. Whether you are an adult student going back to school or the parent of a student headed to college, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form (used for Stafford Loans, Perkins Loans, or Pell Grants), does not require you to report the value of your primary residence (if you own a home) or the value of your retirement accounts.



So if you want to save money without compromising your financial aid eligibility, you can do so by using your savings to buy a house, prepay your mortgage, or contribute more money to your retirement accounts. The savings you put into these assets can still be accessed if you face an emergency, but you won't be penalized for it.



Even if you employ all the available legal strategies to maximize your financial aid eligibility, you still won't always qualify for as much aid as you need, so it's not a bad idea to have your own source of funds to make up for any shortfall.


  8. I'm Debt-Free  

Good for you! But being debt-free without any savings won't pay your bills in an emergency. A zero balance can quickly become a negative balance if you don't have a safety net.


  9. I Always Get a Raise or Tax Refund  

It's never a good idea to count on unpredictable sources of income. This may be the year your company may not have enough money to give you a raise or as much of a raise as you'd hoped for. The same is true of bonus money. Tax refunds are more reliable, but this depends in part on how good you are at calculating your own tax liability.



Some people know how to figure how much they'll get in a refund (or how much they will owe) as well as how to adjust this figure through changes in payroll withholding throughout the year. However, changes in tax deductions, IRS regulations, or other life events can mean a nasty surprise on your tax return.


  10. I Just Don't Have the Discipline  

If you're still not convinced that budgeting is for you, here's a way to protect yourself from your own spending habits. Set up an automatic transfer from your checking account to a savings account you won't see (i.e., at a different bank), scheduled to happen right after you get paid.



If you are saving for retirement, you may have the option of contributing a set amount regularly to a 401(k) or other retirement savings plan. This way, you can pay yourself first, have enough money for the transfer, and pay yourself the same predetermined amount that you know will help you meet your savings goals. 


  11. It's a Luxury When I Barely Have Enough for the Essentials  

Sometimes budgeting just isn't a priority because you may have too many other things on your plate. But there are certain government programs that can help you manage your household expenses. For instance, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) helps recipients of all income levels work with their food budgets to make their benefits go further.


   First Steps in Building a Budget  

In general, traditional budgeting starts with tracking expenses, eliminating debt, and once the budget is balanced, building an emergency fund. But to speed up the process, you could start by building a partial emergency fund. This emergency fund acts as a buffer as the rest of the budget is put in place and should replace the use of credit cards for emergency situations.



The key is to build the fund at regular intervals, consistently devoting a certain percentage of each paycheck toward it, and if possible, putting in whatever you can spare on top. This will get you to think about your spending, too.


  What's an Emergency?  

You should only use the emergency money for true emergencies. For instance, if you lose your job and need to pay for expenses, you could tap into your rainy day fund until you join the workforce again. You can also use this money if you have an unexpected medical emergency that arises.



You would save money if you used your emergency fund to eliminate credit card debt, but the purpose of the fund is to prevent you from having to use your credit card for paying for unexpected expenses. With a proper emergency fund, you will not need your credit card to keep you afloat when something goes wrong.


  Downsize and Substitute  

Now that you have a buffer between you and high-interest debt, it is time to start the process of downsizing. The more space you can create between your expenses and your income, the more income you will have to pay down debt and invest.



This can be a process of substitution as much as elimination. For example, cancel any recurring subscriptions that you don't regularly use or need. Use half of the money you save to invest or pay off outstanding debts, and save the other half to begin building a home gym in your basement.



Although eliminating expenses entirely is the fastest way to a solid budget, substitution tends to have more lasting effects. So:



Consider shopping with friends and family so you can split the cost, especially if you buy in bulk.Carpooling or taking public transport is another great way to cut down on your transportation costs.



People often cut too deep and end up making a budget that they can't keep because it feels like they are giving up everything. Substitution, in contrast, keeps the basics while cutting down costs.


  Find New Sources of Income  

Why isn't this the first step? If you simply increase your income without a budget to handle the extra cash properly, the gains tend to slip through the cracks and vanish. Once you have your budget in place and have more money coming in than going out (along with the buffer of an emergency fund), you can start investing to create more income.



It is better to have no debt before you begin investing. If you are young, however, the rewards of investing in higher-risk, high-return vehicles like stocks can outweigh most low-interest debt over time.


   How to Build a Complete Budget  

Now that you know the steps it takes to build a budget, you'll need to know how to build it. We've outlined the basics of how to craft a comprehensive budget below. Some of the information listed here has already been discussed. But it helps to reiterate it.



Calculate your total monthly income. This includes any wages, salaries, tips, benefits, and any other money that you get on a regular, monthly basis.
Determine your normal monthly expenses. Some of these are predictable, which makes them easier to work, especially if they don't change every month. Think of your mortgage or rent, utility payments, transportation costs, and other similar expenses. Some may fluctuate each month like your food or clothing costs. In these cases, it's always a good idea to err. onside the caution and budget a little higher. Be sure to include your debt, as well, such as loans and credit card payments.
Plan for any extras, including spending money in case you want to dine out, order takeout, see a movie, or do any other activity.
Note down any amount that you'll set aside for savings if that's in your plan.



Now that you have these figures, calculate your plan and write it out. A budget doesn't (and can't) work if you don't put it in writing. If you see it, you'll have more incentive to stick to it. You may have to do some juggling, especially in the initial few months. This means adjusting here and there so you stay within your planned budget. But once you've passed this hurdle, it should be fairly problem-free going forward.






If you can, though, keep your receipts and average out how much you spend each month when you build your monthly budget. This can help you determine how much to budget for any expenses that may change from month to month.


   Sticking to a Budget  

Now you understand the finer points of budgeting. You've accomplished all of the above, even putting together a nice spreadsheet that lays out your budget for the next 15 years. The only problem is that sticking to that budget isn't as easy as you thought. That credit card still calls your name, your clothes category seems awfully small and you feel deprived. Budgets, you decide, are no fun.



The good news is you don't have to throw it all out the window just because you've messed up once or twice.


  Remember the Big Picture  

The point of the budget is to keep you out of overwhelming debt and help you build a financial future that will give you more freedom, not less. So think about how you want your future to be and remember that keeping to your budget will help you get there. Adding to your debt load, on the other hand, will mean that your future could be even tighter.


  Remove the Options That Allow You to Cheat on Your Budget  

Make it more difficult for yourself to make impulse purchases. In other words, set up barriers so you have time to stop and think: "Is this purchase necessary?" Take yourself off retailer email lists. Remove your stored payment information on your favorite online shops so you can't just click to order.


  Find Some Support  

If you feel like you're the only one in your group who is on a budget, search and find some like-minded folks. It could be an online forum, a monthly meeting, or even just a couple of friends traveling the same budgetary road. You need to know you're not the only person setting sane financial limits for yourself. You can also have accountability with your frugal buddies, talking things over and each other out of temptation.


  Go Old School  

There's something powerful about handing over a stack of $20 bills for purchase: It causes you to really think about the amount of money you're about to spend. Swiping a debit card, on the other hand, may not feel nearly as real. Similarly, paying bills by writing checks and promptly entering the sums into your register keeps you up-to-date on how your account is affected in a way that autopay doesn't.



You don't have to use cash exclusively or completely forgo online payments, but handling transactions in old-fashioned ways can make you realize how much you're spending and enhance the power of self-regulation.


  Reward Yourself  

If you constantly look at what you have to cut and give up, the very act of budgeting becomes distasteful. A mixture of long- and short-term gifts to yourself will help keep you motivated.



When you've been faithful to your budget for a month, give yourself a reward. Even small ones can help, such as a night out with friends, a concert or a little extra cash for spending.



Keep visual reminders of these rewards or the things you're saving up for. Start building associations in your brain—that sticking to your budget has a pleasurable result.


  Schedule a Periodic Budget Evaluation  

It's difficult to predict how much money you'll need in every category of life; a new job may necessitate a wardrobe change and your clothing budget may not cut it. That's why it's important to have a regular check on how you've created your budget. If it isn't working, tweak it. It is your budget, after all—just make sure you keep your long-term financial goals in the picture.


  Educate Yourself  

Instead of taking the more common road of instant gratification, which leads so easily to overspending and endless debt, learn all you can about finances, money management, and how you can best invest in yourself. Talk to your financially savvy friends and get real-world tips and advice from people who are doing well with their money.



The more you learn about handling money wisely and its rewards, the more concrete the reasons for budgeting will be, and the better you will be at not only creating a budget that works for you, but also sticking to it.


   Ways to Budget When You're Broke  

Budgeting strategies sound fine, but if you're in dire straits financially or suffering from mounting bills and a lack of funds, there are some other possible steps to take.


  1. Avoid Immediate Disaster  

Don't be afraid to request bill extensions or payment plans from creditors. Skipping or delaying payments only worsens your debt—and besides, late fees ding your credit score. 


  2. Prioritize Bills  

Go over all your bills to see what must be paid first and then set up a payment schedule based on your paydays. You will want to leave yourself some catch-up time if some of your bills are already late.



If this is the case, call the bill companies to see how much you can pay now to get back on track toward positive status. Tell them you are taking strict measures to catch up. Be honest about the amount you can afford to pay; don't just promise to pay the full amount later.


  3. Ignore the 10% Savings Rule  

Stashing 10% of your income into your savings account is daunting when you're living paycheck to paycheck. It doesn't make sense to have $100 in a savings plan if you are fending off debt collectors. Your piggy bank will have to starve until you can find financial stability.


  4. Review Spending  

To fix your finances, you need to get a handle on your outlay first. Online banking and online budgeting software can help you categorize spending so you can make adjustments. Many people find that just by looking at aggregate figures for discretionary expenses, they are spurred to change their patterns and reduce excessive spending.


  5. Eliminate Unnecessary Expenses  

Once you've got a sense of where the money goes, it's time to tighten up. All cutbacks should start with items you wouldn't miss or habits you should change anyway—like reducing your fresh food purchases if you find ingredients spoiling before you can eat them. Or preparing meals at home more instead of going to restaurants or getting takeout.



Some expenses you shouldn't drop but might be able to adjust could include reducing your auto insurance rate by switching carriers.


  6. Negotiate Credit Card Interest Rates  

There are other proactive ways to reduce expenses. Those killer interest rates on your credit cards aren't fixed in stone, for example. Call the card company and ask for a reduction in the annual percentage rates (APR). So if you have a good record, your request might be approved. This won't lower your outstanding balance, but it will keep it from mushrooming as fast.


  7. Keep a Budget Journal  

Once you've gone through these steps, monitor your progress for a few months. You can do this by writing everything you spend in a notebook, via budgeting apps on your phone, or with the software you used in step 4 to review your spending.



How you track your money isn't as important as how much you are tracking. Focus on ensuring that every cent is accounted for by dividing your expenses into categories. Fine-tune and adjust the spending as needed after each month.


  8. Seek New Income  

For the time being, saving and investing money is out. But consider ways to increase earnings: working overtime, getting a second job, or picking up some freelance work.



A budget isn't a prison cell to keep you away from your money. Rather, it's a tool you use to make sure your future is better—and yes, richer, than your present.




How Do You Create a Budget?
Creating a budget takes some work. You'll need to calculate every type of income you receive each month. Next, track your spending and tabulate all your monthly expenses, including your rent or mortgage, utility payments, debt, transportation costs, food, spending money, and others. And write it down. The only way to reinforce your budget is to see it in writing. You may have to make some adjustments initially just to stay within your budget. But once you've gone through the first few months, it should become easier to stick to it.




What Is the 50-20-30 Budget Rule?
The 50-20-30 budget rule was popularized by Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) in her book All Your Worth: The Ultimate Lifetime Money Plan. The plan entails dividing all of your after-tax income into 50% on your actual needs, 30% on anything you want, and 20% on savings.




How Does Budgeting Help a Business?
Just like budgets help people, corporate budgeting helps businesses stay on track. This way, they don't stray very far from what they've projected. They also help business leaders make very important (investment) decisions, manage and meet goals and objectives, and identify any hurdles that come their way.


   The Bottom Line  

The word budget often conjures up images of complicated financial documents. But it's a tool that can be used by various entities, including governments, businesses, and individuals/households of every income level. The key is to learn how to craft one and how to stick to it. Once you have these key points under your belt, you'll be better prepared at securing your financial future.
What Is a Budget Deficit?  

A budget deficit occurs when government expenses exceed revenue. Many people use it as an indicator of the financial health of a country. It is a term more commonly used to refer to government spending and receipts rather than businesses or individuals.



Budget deficits affect the national debt, the sum of annual budget deficits, and the cumulative total a country owes to creditors. 





Key Takeaways

A budget deficit occurs when expenses exceed revenue.Certain unanticipated events and policies may cause budget deficits.Countries can counter budget deficits by raising taxes or cutting spending.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Budget Deficits  

When a budget deficit is identified, current expenses exceed the income received through standard operations. To correct its nation's budget deficit, often referred to as a fiscal deficit, a government may cut back on certain expenditures or increase revenue-generating activities.



A budget deficit can lead to higher levels of borrowing, higher interest payments, and low reinvestment, which will result in lower revenue during the following year.



The opposite of a budget deficit is a budget surplus. When a surplus occurs, revenue exceeds current expenses, resulting in excess funds that can be further allocated. When the inflows equal the outflows, the budget is considered balanced.



In the early 20th century, few industrialized countries had large fiscal deficits; however, during the First World War, deficits grew as governments borrowed heavily and depleted financial reserves to finance the war and their growth. These wartime and growth deficits continued until the 1960s and 1970s, when world economic growth rates dropped.


   What Causes a Budget Deficit?  

Both levels of taxation and spending affect a government's budget deficit. Common scenarios that create deficits by reducing revenue and increasing spending include:



A tax structure that undertaxes high-wage earners but overtaxes low-wage earners.Increased spending on programs like Social Security, Medicare, or military spending.Increased government subsidies to targeted industries.Tax cuts that decrease revenue but provide corporations with funds to increase employment.Low GDP, or gross domestic product, results in lower tax revenue.



Budget deficits may occur as a way to respond to certain unanticipated events and policies, such as the increase in defense spending after the September 11 terrorist attacks.


   Effects of a Budget Deficit  

Budget deficits affect individuals, businesses, and the overall economy. As the government takes steps to improve the deficit, spending for programs such as Medicare or Social Security may be curtailed. Improvements to infrastructure may also be affected.



To increase revenue, tax hikes may occur for high-income earners or large corporations, which may affect their ability to invest in new business ventures or hire new employees.


   Strategies Used to Reduce Budget Deficits  

Countries counter budget deficits by promoting economic growth through fiscal policies, such as reducing government spending and increasing taxes. Determining the best strategies regarding which spending to cut or whose taxes to raise are often widely debated.



To pay for government programs while operating under a deficit, the federal government borrows money by selling U.S. Treasury bonds, bills, and other securities.








What Is the Difference Between the Federal Budget Deficit and the Federal Government Debt?
A federal budget deficit occurs when government spending outpaces revenue or income from taxes, fees, and investments. Deficits add to the national debt or federal government debt. If government debt grows faster than gross domestic product (GDP), the debt-to-GDP ratio may balloon, possibly indicating a destabilizing economy.




When Was the Last Federal Budget Surplus?
The last time the U.S. government had a federal budget surplus was in 2001. In every year since there has been a federal budget deficit.




What Can the Government Do About a Budget Deficit?
The government can work to cut back the budget deficit by using its fiscal policy toolbox to promote economic growth, such as scaling back government spending and raising taxes.




What Causes a Budget Deficit to Improve?
Budget deficits, reflected as a percentage of GDP, may decrease in times of economic prosperity, as increased tax revenue, lower unemployment rates, and increased economic growth reduce the need for government-funded programs such as unemployment insurance.


   The Bottom Line  

Budget deficits are a negative balance between a government's spending and revenues. When a government spends more than it collects in tax revenues, there is a deficit. Conversely, if there is more collected than spent, there is a surplus.
What Is a Budget Surplus?  

The term budget surplus refers to a situation that occurs when income exceeds expenditures. The term is often used to describe a corporation or government's financial state, unlike individuals who have savings instead of budget surpluses. A surplus indicates that a government's finances are being effectively managed. The opposite of a budget surplus is a budget deficit, which commonly occurs when spending exceeds income.





Key Takeaways


A budget surplus is when income or revenue exceeds expenditures.
Governments and companies with surpluses have additional money that can be reinvested or used to pay off debts.
The opposite of a surplus is a deficit, which occurs when spending exceeds revenues.
The last time the U.S. ran a budget surplus was in 2001 under President Bill Clinton.
The U.S. budget had a deficit of more than $421 billion as of January 2023.













Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   How a Budget Surplus Impacts the Economy  

As noted above, the term budget surplus is often used to define the financial situation of a company or government. These entities often run in surpluses when income or revenue exceeds spending or when there are shifts in the economic climate or the way governments spend taxpayers' money. An increase in taxes can also result in a budget surplus. Individuals can also run surpluses, but their surpluses are commonly called savings.



A surplus implies the government has extra funds, which can be used for many different purposes, including making purchases, paying off debts, or saving for future generations. The following are some of the ways surpluses may be used:



A company can apply its budget surplus to the research and development (R&D) of a new product line.
A municipal government may use its budget surplus to make improvements like revitalizing a decaying park or downtown area.
State surpluses can be used to reduce taxes, start new programs, or fund existing programs such as healthcare.
A country's federal government may allocate its surplus toward public debt, which can reduce interest rates and help the economy.



A budget surplus can often be an indicator of a healthy economy. But it is not necessary for a government to maintain a surplus. The U.S. has rarely run a budget surplus and experienced long periods of economic growth while running a budget deficit, which is the opposite of a surplus. A budget deficit occurs when expenditures exceed income. Money is borrowed and interest is paid when a deficit occurs.






A balanced budget, on the other hand, exists when expenditures equal income.


   Risks of a Budget Surplus  

Having funds in the coffers can be a sign of prudent spending. But it doesn't mean that running a surplus is always beneficial. As such, it can sometimes come with its own problems.



The main risks of running a budget surplus are the decline in investment revenue and higher taxation. When companies or governments run a surplus, they're not spending or investing as much. When investment drops, returns aren't generated. Similarly, when there's a drop in revenue, there isn't enough money going through the economy. In order to compensate and prevent deflation, governments may have to raise taxes and companies may need to raise prices.



Keynesian economics theory suggests that entities should run a surplus during times of prosperity and a deficit during a downcycle or depression. This allows the company or government to save money when it is well off and to spend money on economic stimulus when the economy is less well off.





$421 billion

The size of the national deficit in the United States as of January 2023.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Budget Surplus  

There is no simple answer as to whether a budget surplus is good or bad. Running a surplus has its advantages, the same way running a deficit does. The best action depends on the entity's specific economic situation and priorities. Having said that, we've highlighted some of the most common pros and cons of running a budget surplus.


  Advantages  

Running a budget surplus means there is additional money to spend at the end of the accounting period, which is generally a fiscal year. This extra cash can be used to pay off debts or be reinvested in other projects. It can even be returned to the public in the form of price or tax cuts.



A large surplus also reduces the need for borrowing through corporate or government bond issues. This will reduce interest rates in that country, allowing people and businesses to borrow money at a lower cost.


  Disadvantages  

Running a surplus is not always an unmixed blessing. Although it may seem wise for a government to save money, those savings mean that the wider economy will not benefit from the multiplier effect of government spending. In addition, those savings could mean less spending on public services.



A budget surplus can also affect a company's economic standing or a country's inflation levels and gross domestic product (GDP). In the case of governments, spending is one of the four components of GDP, meaning that a government that struggles to reduce its spending will ultimately reduce its GDP. Since lower spending reduces the amount of money circulating in an economy, deflation can occur.





Pros

Facilitates the saving of money
Increases credit ratings and reduces borrowing costs
Lowers interest rates and encourages economic activity



Cons

Can lead to price hikes or excessive taxation
Less economic stimulus from spending
Reduces the amount of money circulating in an economy, potentially causing deflation





   U.S. Budget Surpluses  

The U.S. Treasury releases government budget information on a monthly basis. Budget surplus or deficit data appears in the statements, which summarize whether the government is spending or collecting more money than expected. In addition, the data records future collections or changes to the budget.



As noted above, the U.S. government eliminated a large budget deficit while Bill Clinton was president. This resulted in a budget surplus. In the 2000 fiscal year, revenue came in at $2.025 trillion, while the total spending bill for the year ended up at $1.788 trillion. This resulted in a budget surplus of about $236 billion.



This surplus ended just after the September 11 attacks in 2001. The federal government has been running at a deficit since then, although the size of the deficit rose and fell in accordance with economic circumstances. For instance, the deficit grew to $1.41 trillion in 2009 in the aftermath of the Great Recession, before slowly declining as the economy recovered. This was the highest deficit of the 21st century—at least until the COVID-19 pandemic when the deficit again ballooned to more than $3 trillion.




Is a Budget Surplus a Good Thing?
A budget surplus is generally considered a good thing, because it means that the government has money left over that can be reinvested or spent to pay off debts. However, it depends on how wisely the government is spending money: if the government has a surplus because of high taxes or reduced public services, that can result in a net loss for the economy as a whole.




What Is a Budget Surplus vs. a Budget Deficit?
A budget surplus is when a body (such as the U.S. government) spends less money during an accounting period than it takes in through revenue. A deficit is when spending is higher than revenue, requiring the government to borrow money in order to finance its activities.




What Is the Current U.S. Budget Deficit?
The U.S. budget is running a deficit of over $421 billion as of January 2023.




Has the U.S. Ever Had a Budget Surplus?
Yes. During the Clinton presidency, the federal government was able to reduce spending and increase revenues, turning a large deficit into a small surplus. The last year where the government ran a budget surplus was in 2001.


   The Bottom Line  

Budget surpluses occur whenever an entity has more income than it spends. This includes companies and governments. Individuals can also have surpluses, although they're normally called savings. Having a surplus can be beneficial because those funds can be used to pay off debt or fund new investments. But there are risks to running a surplus, which include increased taxation or pricing and a loss of revenue. So whether an entity runs a surplus or a deficit can often be a double-edged sword.
What Is a Budget Variance?  

A budget variance is a periodic measure used by governments, corporations, or individuals to quantify the difference between budgeted and actual figures for a particular accounting category. A favorable budget variance refers to positive variances or gains; an unfavorable budget variance describes negative variance, indicating losses or shortfalls. Budget variances occur because forecasters are unable to predict future costs and revenue with complete accuracy.



Budget variances can occur broadly due to either controlled or uncontrollable factors. For instance, a poorly planned budget and labor costs are controllable factors. Uncontrollable factors are often external and arise from occurrences outside the company, such as a natural disaster.





Key Takeaways

A budget variance is an accounting term that describes instances where actual costs are either higher or lower than the standard or projected costs.An unfavorable, or negative, budget variance is indicative of a budget shortfall, which may occur because revenues miss or costs come in higher than anticipated.Variances may occur for internal or external reasons and include human error, poor expectations, and changing business or economic conditions.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Budget Variances  

There are three primary causes of budget variance: errors, changing business conditions, and unmet expectations.



Errors by the creators of the budget can occur when the budget is being compiled. There are a number of reasons for this, including faulty math, using the wrong assumptions, or relying on stale or bad data.Changing business conditions, including changes in the overall economy or global trade, can cause budget variances. There could be an increase in the cost of raw materials or a new competitor may have entered the market to create pricing pressure. Political and regulatory changes that were not accurately forecast are also included in this category.Budget variances will also occur when the management team exceeds or underperforms expectations. Expectations are always based on estimates and projects, which also rely on the values of inputs and assumptions built into the budget. As a result, variances are more common than company managers would like them to be.


   Significance of a Budget Variance  

A variance should be indicated appropriately as "favorable" or "unfavorable." A favorable variance is one where revenue comes in higher than budgeted, or when expenses are lower than predicted. The result could be greater income than originally forecast. Conversely, an unfavorable variance occurs when revenue falls short of the budgeted amount or expenses are higher than predicted. As a result of the variance, net income may be below what management originally expected.



If the variances are considered material, they will be investigated to determine the cause. Then, management will be tasked to see if it can remedy the situation. The definition of material is subjective and different depending on the company and relative size of the variance. However, if a material variance persists over an extended period of time, management likely needs to evaluate its budgeting process.


   Budget Variance in a Flexible Budget Versus a Static Budget  

A flexible budget allows for changes and updates to be made when assumptions used to devise the budget are altered. A static budget remains the same, however, even if the assumptions change. The flexible budget thus allows for greater adaptability to changing circumstances and should result in less of a budget variance, both positive and negative.



For instance, assuming production is cut, variable costs are also going to be lower. Under a flexible budget, this is reflected, and results can be evaluated at this lower level of production. Under a static budget, the original level of production stays the same, and the resulting variance is not as revealing. It is worth noting that most companies use a flexible budget for this very reason.


   Example of Unfavorable Variance  

As an example, let's say that a company's sales were budgeted to be $250,000 for the first quarter of the year. However, the company only generated $200,000 in sales because demand fell among consumers. The unfavorable variance would be $50,000, or 20%.



Similarly, if expenses were projected to be $200,000 for the period but were actually $250,000, there would be an unfavorable variance of $50,000, or 25%.
What Are Build America Bonds?  

Build America Bonds (BABs) were taxable municipal bonds that featured federal tax credits or subsidies for bondholders or state and local government bond issuers. Build America Bonds (BABs) were introduced in 2009 as part of President Obama's American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) to create jobs and stimulate the economy. The Build America Bonds program expired in 2010.






The Build America Bonds program expired in 2010.


   Understanding Build America Bonds (BABs)  

Many savers were afraid to invest in anything other than federal government bonds right after the 2008 financial crisis. Investors were even staying away from municipal bonds. The federal government introduced Build America Bonds (BABs) to ensure that local municipalities and counties were able to raise much-needed capital during the recession.



BABs were introduced to encourage investment in local areas. BABs were debt securities issued by a state, municipality, or county to finance capital expenditures. The interest rates on these bonds were subsidized by the federal government, which made the cost of borrowing for infrastructure projects lower for state and local governments.



In addition, investors at that time were more likely to opt for a bond issued by a government body. Corporate bonds had a high perceived default risk immediately following the 2008 financial crisis.


   Types of Build America Bonds (BABs)  

In general, there were two distinct types of BABs: tax credit BABs and direct payment BABs. Tax credit BABs offered bondholders and lenders a 35% federal subsidy of the interest paid through refundable tax credits, reducing the bondholder’s tax liability. If the bondholder's tax liability was insufficient to use the entire credit, it could be carried forward to future years.



The direct payment BABs offered a similar subsidy, but it was paid to the bond issuer. The U.S. Treasury made a direct payment to Build America Bond issuers in the form of a 35% subsidy of the interest they owed to investors. Since the effective cost of borrowing fell for issuers, they were able to offer the bonds to investors at competitive rates in the markets. California's $5.2 billion BAB issue in early 2009, for example, offered an interest rate of 7.4% to investors. The state only had to pay 4.8% of that interest, and the federal government paid for the rest.


   Restrictions on Build America Bonds (BABs)  

Some traditionally tax-exempt issuers, such as private party issuers and 501(c)(3) organizations, were not eligible to use the BAB program. Also, the program was only open to new issue capital expenditure bonds issued before Jan. 1, 2011. BABs could not be issued for refinancing old debts.





KEY TAKEAWAYS

Build America Bonds (BABs) were taxable municipal bonds that featured federal tax credits or subsidies for bondholders or state and local government bond issuers.The Build America Bonds program expired in 2010.The federal government introduced Build America Bonds (BABs) to ensure that local municipalities and counties were able to raise much-needed capital during the recession.In general, there were two distinct types of BABs: tax credit BABs and direct payment BABs.


   Build America Bonds vs. Traditional Muni Bonds  

The difference between Build America Bonds and traditional municipal bonds is that income generated from regular muni bonds is exempt from federal and some state taxes. With BABs, the interest income was subject to tax at the federal level.
What Is a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) Contract?  

A build-operate-transfer (BOT) contract is a model used to finance large projects, typically infrastructure projects developed through public-private partnerships.



The BOT scheme refers to the initial concession by a public entity such as a local government to a private firm to both build and operate the project in question. After a set time frame, typically two or three decades, control of the project is returned to the public entity.





Key Takeaways

A build-operate-transfer (BOT) contract is a model used to finance large projects, typically infrastructure projects developed through public-private partnerships. BOT projects are normally large-scale, greenfield infrastructure projects that would otherwise be financed, built, and operated solely by the government.Under a build-operate-transfer (BOT) contract, an entity—usually a government—grants a concession to a private company to finance, build, and operate a project for a period of 20 to 30 years, hoping to earn a profit.After that period, the project is returned to the public entity that originally granted the concession.


   How Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) Contracts Work  

Under a build-operate-transfer (BOT) contract, an entity—usually a government—grants a concession to a private company to finance, build, and operate a project. The company operates the project for a period of time (typically 20 or 30 years) with the goal of recouping its investment, then transfers control of the project back to the public entity.



BOT projects are normally large-scale, greenfield infrastructure projects that would otherwise be financed, built, and operated solely by the government. Examples include a highway in Pakistan, a wastewater treatment facility in China, and a power plant in the Philippines.



In general, BOT contractors are special-purpose companies formed specifically for a given project. During the project period—when the contractor is operating the project it has built—revenues usually come from a single source, an offtake purchaser with a binding agreement. This may be a government or state-owned enterprise.



Power purchase agreements, in which a government utility acts as offtaker and purchases electricity from a privately owned plant, are an example of this arrangement. Under a traditional concession, the company would sell directly to consumers without a government intermediary.






BOT agreements often stipulate minimum prices the offtaker must pay.


   Variations on the Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) Contract  

A number of variations on the basic BOT model exist.



Under build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) contracts, the contractor owns the project during the project period. Meanwhile, under build-lease-transfer (BLT) contracts, the government leases the project from the contractor during the project period and takes charge of the operation.



Other variations have the contractor design as well as build the project. One example is a design-build-operate-transfer (DBOT) contract.






The BOT approach was developed in the late 1970s against a backdrop of constrained budgets in developing countries and a downturn in work for international construction firms.


   Example of a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) Contract  

The elevated train system in Bangkok, Thailand, known as the Bangkok Mass Transit System (BTS) or BTS Skytrain, was created from a 30-year BOT concession agreement between the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, the government entity that owns the line, and Thai transport firm Bangkok Mass Transit System (BMTS) Public Company Limited.



Under the terms of the agreement, BMTS was given the job of designing, financing, building, and operating the transit system out of its own pocket in exchange for collecting all fares and advertising revenue when the train line went live.



Based on its projections, BMTS figured it would recoup its costs within a decade, with at least a 16% rate of return. However, it didn’t pan out that way. BTSC ran into financial trouble after the number of people using the service fell way below its original prediction.






BOT contracts are generally more prevalent in developing economies, helping cash-strapped local governments to finance large, complicated infrastructure projects that they might otherwise be unable to manage and afford.




What Is the Basic Framework of a BOT Contract?
A BOT can be broken down into three distinct phases:Build: A private company agrees to build a public infrastructure project for the government.Operate: It then proceeds to operate and manage the facility for an agreed-upon period, during which it should recoup its outlay and start making money.Transfer: After the concessionary period, the company transfers ownership back to the public entity.




What Are the Risks of BOT Contracts?
One of the biggest risks is that the contract ends up losing money. To be a success for all parties, the project should provide a sufficient return on investment for the private entity, while also benefiting the public entity financially and beating other available alternative options. Unfortunately, this doesn’t always happen. Big projects come with great risk and the finances can be under or overestimated.




What Is the Difference Between BOT and PPP?
A public-private partnership (PPP) is when a private entity takes over, finances, and operates large-scale government projects, such as public transportation networks, parks, and hospitals. A BOT contract is just one of a series of potential PPP agreements.


   The Bottom Line  

BOT contracts can make a lot of sense. In theory, they enable governments to transfer the cost and risk of big, important infrastructure projects to a specialist private entity, which has the potential to make lots of money from it if it turns into a success before handing it back. Sounds like a win-win, right? In theory, yes, though sadly there are lots of variables that can turn what appears to be a dream arrangement into a complete nightmare, especially for the risk-bearing private company.
What Is a Bull?  

A bull is an investor who thinks the market, a specific security, or an industry is poised to rise. Investors who adopt a bull approach purchase securities under the assumption that they can sell them later at a higher price.



Bulls are optimistic investors who are attempting to profit from the upward movement of stocks, with certain strategies suited to that theory.





Key Takeaways

A bull believes that the market will increase in value over time.Bears are the opposite of bulls; they believe that the general direction of prices in the market trends toward a decline.A bullish investor can fall prey to a bull trap, when they believe a sudden increase in the value of a particular security is the beginning of a trend, resulting in the investor going long.Some of the more common bullish patterns used by traders and investors include the Cup and Handle, Bull Flag, Bull Pennant, and Ascending Triangle.


   Understanding Bulls  

Bullish investors identify securities that are likely to increase in value and direct available funds toward those investments.



Opportunities to assume the position of a bull investor exist even when an overall market or sector is in a bearish trend. Bull investors look for growth opportunities within the down market and may look to capitalize should market conditions reverse.


   Bullish Characteristics  

Characteristics of a bull market include:



A prolonged period of rising stock prices (usually by at least 20% or more over a minimum of two months)A strong or strengthening economyHigh investor confidenceHigh investor optimismA general expectation that things will be positive for an extended period


   Bulls and Risk Mitigation  

To limit the risk of losses, a bull may employ the use of stop-loss orders.



This allows the investor to specify a price at which to sell the associated security should prices begin to move downward. Additionally, these investors may purchase puts to help compensate for any risk present in a portfolio.



Bulls can also use diversification to mitigate risk. By spreading investments across different asset classes, sectors, styles, and geographic regions, investors can still remain bullish without putting too many eggs in one basket.


   Bull Traps  

Bull investors must be mindful of what is commonly known as bull traps.



A bull trap exists when an investor believes a sudden increase in the value of a particular security is the beginning of a trend resulting in the investor going long. This can lead to a buying frenzy where, as more investors purchase the security, the price continues to inflate. Once those interested in purchasing the security have completed the trades, demand may decline and lower associated security prices.



As the price declines, bull investors must choose whether to hold or sell the security.



If investors begin to sell, the price may experience further decline. This may prompt a new round of investors to sell their holdings and drive the price down even further. In cases where a bull trap existed, the associated stock price often does not recover.


   Bull vs. Bear  

A bear is the opposite of a bull. Bear investors believe that the value of a specific security or industry is likely to decline in the future. A bear market occurs when the market experiences prolong price declines—typically when securities prices fall by 20% or more and there is negative investor sentiment.



If you are bullish on the S&P 500, you attempt to profit from a rise in the index by going long. Bears, however, are pessimistic and believe that a particular security, commodity, or entity is set to suffer a decline in price.



Bullishness and bearishness do not necessarily apply only to the stock market. People can be bullish or bearish on any investment opportunity, including real estate and commodities, such as soybeans, crude oil, or even peanuts.


   Examples of a Bull  
  Dotcom Bubble  

One of the best examples of a bull market was the sharp rise in US technology stocks during the late 1990s. Between 1995 and its highest point in March 2000, the Nasdaq Index gained a whopping 400%.



Unfortunately, the Nasdaq crashed nearly 80% over the following several months, essentially giving back all of the gains made during the bull run.


  Housing Bubble  

Another famous example of a bull market was the extreme run-up in U.S. housing prices in the mid-2000s. It was fueled by easy-money policies, relaxed lending standards, rampant speculation, unregulated derivatives, and irrational exuberance.



The housing bubble was directly related to and possibly the root cause of the 2007–2008 financial crisis.






Always be on the lookout for early signs that a bull run may be coming to an end. For instance, U.S. homeownership had peaked at 69.2% in 2004. And in 2006, home prices began to fall. Yet the risks only became apparent to most investors in August 2007.


   Bullish FAQs  
  How Do I find Bullish Stocks?  

Bullish stocks are typically defined as stocks that display a bullish price pattern. In order to identify bullish stocks, there's no substitute for learning the ins and outs of technical analysis.



Of course, traders should also familiarize themselves with technical indicators such as overlays and oscillators.


  What Is a Bullish Pattern in a Stock Chart?  

Some of the more common bullish patterns used by traders and investors include:



Cup and handle: This pattern resembles a cup with a handle, where the cup is in a "U" shape and the handle has a slight downward drift.
Bullish flag: This pattern resembles a flag on a pole, where the pole represents a sharp rise in the stock and the flag comes from a period of consolidation.
Bull pennant: This is a bullish continuation pattern where the flagpole is formed by a big move in the stock and the pennant is a consolidation period with converging trend lines.
Ascending triangle: This continuation pattern is formed by trend lines that run along at least two swing highs and two swing lows.


  What Are Some Bullish and Bearish Indicators?  

Four of the most commonly used technical analysis indicators are:



Moving averages: If the moving average line is angled up (down), a bullish (bearish) trend is occurring.Moving average convergence divergence (MACD): If the MACD lines are above (below) zero for a prolonged period of time, the stock is in a bullish (bearish) trend.Relative strength index (RSI): When the histogram reading is above 70, the stock can be viewed as "overbought" and due for a correction. When it is below 30, it can be viewed as "oversold" and ready to bounce back.On-balance-volume (OBV): OBV is a tool used to confirm trends; a price that's rising should be accompanied by increasing OBV and a falling price should be accompanied by declining OBV.


  What Is a Bullish Reversal?  

A bullish reversal is a pattern that represents a price decline, followed by a rebound. Common types of bullish reversal patterns include:



Double bottom: Pattern that looks like a "W" which describes a price decline, rebound, yet another price decline, and another final rebound.
Inverse head and shoulders: As the complete opposite of a "head and shoulders bottom," the inverse head and shoulders pattern is characterized by a series of three bottoms, with the second one being the biggest.
What Is a Bull Call Spread?  

A bull call spread is an options trading strategy designed to benefit from a stock's limited increase in price. The strategy uses two call options to create a range consisting of a lower strike price and an upper strike price. The bullish call spread helps to limit losses of owning stock, but it also caps the gains.





Key Takeaways

A bull call spread is an options strategy used when a trader is betting that a stock will have a limited increase in its price. The strategy uses two call options to create a range consisting of a lower strike price and an upper strike price.The bullish call spread can limit the losses of owning stock, but it also caps the gains.







How To Manage A Bull Call Spread


   Understanding a Bull Call Spread  

The bull call spread consists of the following steps involving two call options.



Choose the asset you believe will experience a slight appreciation over a set period of time (days, weeks, or months).Buy a call option for a strike price above the current market with a specific expiration date and pay the premium.Simultaneously, sell a call option at a higher strike price that has the same expiration date as the first call option, and collect the premium.



The premium received by selling the call option partially offsets the premium the investor paid for buying the call. In practice, investor debt is the net difference between the two call options, which is the cost of the strategy.



The bull call spread reduces the cost of the call option, but it comes with a trade-off. The gains in the stock's price are also capped, creating a limited range where the investor can make a profit. Traders will use the bull call spread if they believe an asset will moderately rise in value. Most often, during times of high volatility, they will use this strategy.



The losses and gains from the bull call spread are limited due to the lower and upper strike prices. If at expiry, the stock price declines below the lower strike price—the first, purchased call option—the investor does not exercise the option. The option strategy expires worthlessly, and the investor loses the net premium paid at the onset. If they exercise the option, they would have to pay more—the selected strike price—for an asset that is currently trading for less.



If at expiry, the stock price has risen and is trading above the upper strike price—the second, sold call option—the investor exercises their first option with the lower strike price. Now, they may purchase the shares for less than the current market value.



However, the second, sold call option is still active. The options marketplace will automatically exercise or assign this call option. The investor will sell the shares bought with the first, lower strike option for the higher, second strike price. As a result, the gains earned from buying with the first call option are capped at the strike price of the sold option. The profit is the difference between the lower strike price and upper strike price minus, of course, the net cost or premium paid at the onset.



With a bull call spread, the losses are limited reducing the risk involved since the investor can only lose the net cost to create the spread. However, the downside to the strategy is that the gains are limited as well.





Pros

Investors can realize limited gains from an upward move in a stock's price
A bull call spread is cheaper than buying an individual call option by itself
The bullish call spread limits the maximum loss of owning a stock to the net cost of the strategy



Cons

The investor forfeits any gains in the stock's price above the strike of the sold call option
Gains are limited given the net cost of the premiums for the two call options





   Call Option Explained  

Commodities, bonds, stocks, currencies, and other assets form the underlying holdings for call options. Call options can be used by investors to benefit from upward moves in an asset's price. If exercised before the expiration date, these options allow the investor to buy the asset at a stated price—the strike price. The option does not require the holder to purchase the asset if they choose not to. For example, traders who believe a particular stock is favorable for an upward price movement will use call options.



The bullish investor would pay an upfront fee—the premium—for the call option. Premiums base their price on the spread between the stock's current market price and the strike price. If the option's strike price is near the stock's current market price, the premium will likely be expensive. The strike price is the price at which the option gets converted to the stock at expiry.



Should the underlying asset fall to less than the strike price, the holder will not buy the stock but will lose the value of the premium at expiration. If the share price moves above the strike price the holder may decide to purchase shares at that price but are under no obligation to do so. Again, in this scenario, the holder would be out the price of the premium.



An expensive premium might make a call option not worth buying since the stock's price would have to move significantly higher to offset the premium paid. Called the break-even point (BEP), this is the price equal to the strike price plus the premium fee.



The broker will charge a fee for placing an options trade and this expense factors into the overall cost of the trade. Also, options contracts are priced by lots of 100 shares. So, buying one contract equates to 100 shares of the underlying asset.






A bull call spread can limit your losses, but also caps your gains.






   Bull Call Spread Example  

An options trader buys 1 Citigroup (C) June 21 call at the $50 strike price and pays $2 per contract when Citigroup is trading at $49 per share.



At the same time, the trader sells 1 Citi June 21 call at the $60 strike price and receives $1 per contract. Because the trader paid $2 and received $1, the trader’s net cost to create the spread is $1.00 per contract or $100. ($2 long call premium minus $1 short call profit = $1 multiplied by 100 contract size = $100 net cost plus, your broker's commission fee)



If the stock falls below $50, both options expire worthlessly, and the trader loses the premium paid of $100 or the net cost of $1 per contract.



Should the stock increase to $61, the value of the $50 call would rise to $10, and the value of the $60 call would remain at $1. However, any further gains in the $50 call are forfeited, and the trader’s profit on the two call options would be $9 ($10 gain - $1 net cost). The total profit would be $900 (or $9 x 100 shares).



To put it another way, if the stock fell to $30, the maximum loss would be only $1.00, but if the stock soared to $100, the maximum gain would be $9 for the strategy.




How Is a Bull Call Spread Implemented?
To implement a bull call spread involves choosing the asset that is likely to experience a slight appreciation over a set period of time (days, weeks, or months). The next step is to buy a call option for a strike price above the current market with a specific expiration date while simultaneously selling a call option at a higher strike price that has the same expiration date as the first call option. The net difference between the premium received for selling the call and the premium paid for buying the call is the cost of the strategy.




How Can a Bull Call Spread Benefit You?
With a bull call spread, the losses are limited, reducing the risk involved, since the investor can only lose the net cost to create the spread. The net cost is also lower as the premium collected from selling the call helps to defray the cost of the premium paid to buy the call. Traders will use the bull call spread if they believe an asset will rise in value just enough to justify exercising the long call but not enough to where the short call can be exercised.




How Does the Underlying Asset Affect a Bull Call Spread's Premium?
Since the bull call spread is implemented on the premise of a modest appreciation in the underlying asset's price, it stands to reason that its premium will mirror that of the asset's price, up to a certain point. Essentially, a bull call spread's delta, which compares the change in the underlying asset's price to the change in the option's premium, is net positive. However, its gamma, which measures the rate of change of delta, is very close to zero which means that there is very little change in the bull call spread's premiums as the underlying asset's price changes.
What Is a Bull Market?  

A bull market is the condition of a financial market in which prices are rising or are expected to rise. The term "bull market" is most often used to refer to the stock market but can be applied to anything that is traded, such as bonds, real estate, currencies, and commodities.



Because prices of securities rise and fall essentially continuously during trading, the term "bull market" is typically reserved for extended periods in which a large portion of security prices are rising. Bull markets tend to last for months or even years.





Key Takeaways

A bull market is a period of time in financial markets when the price of an asset or security rises continuously.The commonly accepted definition of a bull market is when stock prices rise by 20%.Traders employ a variety of strategies, such as increased buy and hold and retracement, to profit off bull markets.The opposite of a bull market is a bear market, when prices trend downward.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Bull Markets  

Bull markets are characterized by optimism, investor confidence, and expectations that strong results should continue for an extended period of time. It is difficult to predict consistently when the trends in the market might change. Part of the difficulty is that psychological effects and speculation may sometimes play a large role in the markets.



There is no specific and universal metric used to identify a bull market. Nonetheless, perhaps the most common definition of a bull market is a situation in which stock prices rise by 20% or more from recent lows.



Since bull markets are difficult to predict, analysts can typically only recognize this phenomenon after it has happened. A notable bull market in recent history was the period between 2003 and 2007. During this time, the S&P 500 increased by a significant margin after a previous decline; as the 2008 financial crisis took effect, major declines occurred again after the bull market run.


  What Causes Bull Markets  

Bull markets generally take place when the economy is strengthening or when it is already strong. They tend to happen in line with strong gross domestic product (GDP) and a drop in unemployment and will often coincide with a rise in corporate profits. Investor confidence will also tend to climb throughout a bull market period. The overall demand for stocks will be positive, along with the overall tone of the market. In addition, there will be a general increase in the amount of IPO activity during bull markets.



Notably, some of the factors above are more easily quantifiable than others. While corporate profits and unemployment are quantifiable, it can be more difficult to gauge the general tone of market commentary, for instance. Supply and demand for securities will seesaw: supply will be weak while demand will be strong. Investors will be eager to buy securities, while few will be willing to sell. In a bull market, investors are more willing to take part in the (stock) market in order to gain profits.


  Characteristics of Bull Markets  

During a bull market, there are several characteristics that can be observed. These include an increase in trading volume, as more investors are willing to buy and hold onto securities in the hopes of realizing capital gains. Securities in a bull market also tend to receive higher valuations, as investors are willing to pay more for them due to the perceived potential for price appreciation.



In addition, a bull market is often characterized by greater liquidity in the market, as there is more demand for securities and fewer sellers, making it easier for investors to buy and sell quickly at a reasonable price. Companies that are performing well in a bull market may also choose to reward their shareholders by increasing dividends, which can be attractive for income-focused investors. Finally, there may be an increase in the number of companies going public and raising capital through initial public offerings (IPOs) during a bull market, providing investors with the opportunity to participate in the growth of new, promising companies.


   Bull vs. Bear Markets  

The opposite of a bull market is a bear market, which is characterized by falling prices and typically shrouded in pessimism. The commonly held belief about the origin of these terms suggests that the use of "bull" and "bear" to describe markets comes from the way the animals attack their opponents. A bull thrusts its horns up into the air, while a bear swipes its paws downward. These actions are metaphors for the movement of a market. If the trend is up, it's a bull market. If the trend is down, it's a bear market.



Bull and bear markets often coincide with the economic cycle, which consists of four phases: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough. The onset of a bull market is often a leading indicator of economic expansion. Because public sentiment about future economic conditions drives stock prices, the market frequently rises even before broader economic measures, such as gross domestic product (GDP) growth, begin to tick up. Likewise, bear markets usually set in before economic contraction takes hold. A look back at a typical U.S. recession reveals a falling stock market usually comes several months ahead of GDP decline.







Market Mentalities: Bulls Vs. Bears


   How to Take Advantage of a Bull Market  

Investors who want to benefit from a bull market should buy early in order to take advantage of rising prices and sell them when they’ve reached their peak. Although it is hard to determine when the bottom and peak will take place, most losses will be minimal and are usually temporary. Below, we'll explore several prominent strategies investors utilize during bull markets. However, because it is difficult to assess the state of the market as it exists currently, these strategies involve at least some degree of risk.


  Buy and Hold  

One of the most basic strategies in investing is the process of buying a particular security and holding onto it, potentially to sell it at a later date. This strategy necessarily involves confidence on the part of the investor: why hold onto a security unless you expect its price to rise? For this reason, the optimism that comes along with bull markets helps to fuel the buy and hold approach.


  Increased Buy and Hold  

Increased buy and hold is a variation of the straightforward buy and hold strategy, and it involves additional risk. The premise behind the increased buy and hold approach is that an investor will continue to add to their holdings in a particular security so long as it continues to increase in price. One common method for increasing holdings suggests that an investor will buy an additional fixed quantity of shares for every increase in the stock price of a pre-set amount.


  Retracement Additions  

A retracement is a brief period in which the general trend in a security's price is reversed. Even during a bull market, it's unlikely that stock prices will only ascend. Rather, there are likely to be shorter periods of time in which small dips occur as well, even as the general trend continues upward.



Some investors watch for retracements within a bull market and buy the dip during these periods. The thinking behind this strategy is that, presuming that the bull market continues, the price of the security in question will quickly move back up, retroactively providing the investor with a discounted purchase price.


  Full Swing Trading  

Perhaps the most aggressive way of attempting to capitalize on a bull market is the process known as full swing trading. Investors utilizing this strategy will take very active roles, using short-selling and other techniques to attempt to squeeze out maximum gains as shifts occur within the context of a larger bull market.


   Examples of Historic Bull Markets  

There have been several significant bull markets throughout history, each with its own unique characteristics and drivers. Here are a few examples of some of the biggest bull markets:



The Roaring Twenties: This bull market, which took place in the 1920s, was fueled by speculation and lasted until the stock market crash of 1929. It was characterized by rapid economic growth, rising asset prices, and increased consumer spending.The Japanese Bull Market of the 1980s: This bull market, which took place in Japan in the 1980s, was characterized by rapid economic growth and rising asset prices. It ultimately ended with the bursting of the Japanese asset price bubble in the 1990s.The Reagan Bull Market of the 1980s: In the 1980s, the stock market experienced a bull market that was driven by the economic policies of the Reagan administration and the strong performance of the technology sector. This bull market lasted from 1982 to August 1987 and saw the S&P 500 index gain over 100%. It ended with the Black Monday stock market crash in October 1987, which saw the S&P 500 index decline by over 20% in a single day.The 1990s Bull Market: This bull market, also known as the dot-com bubble, was driven by the rapid growth of the internet and technology sectors. It lasted from the early 1990s until the early 2000s, and saw the S&P 500 index gain over 200%.The 2009 Bull Market: This bull market began in March 2009 and lasted until February 2020, making it the longest bull market in history. It was driven by strong earnings growth, low interest rates, and investor optimism, and saw the S&P 500 index gain over 300%.



These are just a few examples of some of the biggest bull markets in history. There have been many others, each with its own unique set of circumstances and drivers.






The longest bull market in the history of the S&P 500 index lasted from March 2009 to February 2020 and saw the index gain over 300%. This bull market was characterized by strong earnings growth, low interest rates, and investor optimism. Despite its length, the bull market was relatively volatile, with several corrections and pullbacks along the way. The technology sector significantly outperformed the broader market during this bull market.




Why Is It Called a "Bull" Market When Prices Go Up?
The actual origin of the term "bull" is subject to debate. The terms "bear" (for down markets) and "bull" (for up markets) are thought by some to derive from the way in which each animal attacks its opponents. That is, a bull will thrust its horns up into the air, while a bear will swipe down. These actions were then related metaphorically to the movement of a market. If the trend was up, it was considered a bull market. If the trend was down, it was a bear market.Others point to Shakespeare's plays, which make reference to battles involving bulls and bears. In "Macbeth," the ill-fated titular character says his enemies have tethered him to a stake but "bear-like, I must fight the course." In "Much Ado About Nothing," the bull is a savage but noble beast. Several other explanations also exist.




Are We in a Bull Market As of 2023?
The S&P 500 entered a bull market on June 8, 2023, after rising 20% from its October 2022 lows. The index had been in a bear market since June 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and Nasdaq had been in bull markets since Nov. 30 and May 8, respectively.




What Makes Stock Prices Rise in a Bull Market?
Bull markets often exist alongside a strong and growing economy. Stock prices are informed by future expectations of profits and the ability of firms to generate cash flows. A strong production economy, high employment, and rising GDP all suggest profits will continue to grow, and this is reflected in rising stock prices. Low interest rates and low corporate tax rates also are positive for corporate profitability.




Why Do Bull Markets Sometimes Falter and Become Bear Markets?
When the economy hits a rough patch, for instance in the face of recession or spike in unemployment, it becomes difficult to sustain rising stock prices. Moreover, recessions are often accompanied by a negative turn in investor and consumer sentiment, where market psychology becomes more concerned with fear or reducing risk than greed or risk-taking.


   The Bottom Line  

A bull market is a financial market characterized by rising prices and investor optimism. It is most commonly used to refer to the stock market, but can also refer to the bond, real estate, currency, and commodity markets. Bull markets tend to last for extended periods of time and are marked by increased demand for securities, rising corporate profits and GDP, and declining unemployment. The opposite of a bull market is a bear market, which is characterized by falling prices and investor pessimism. The terms "bull" and "bear" are believed to come from the way these animals attack their opponents.
What Is a Bull Put Spread?  

A bull put spread is an options strategy that an investor uses when they expect a moderate rise in the price of the underlying asset. The strategy employs two put options to form a range, consisting of a high strike price and a low strike price. The investor receives a net credit from the difference between the premiums of the two options.





Key Takeaways

A bull put spread is an options strategy that is used when the investor expects a moderate rise in the price of the underlying asset.An investor executes a bull put spread by buying a put option on a security and selling another put option for the same date but a higher strike price.The maximum loss is equal to the difference between the strike prices and the net credit received.The maximum profit is the difference in the premium costs of the two put options. This only occurs if the stock's price closes above the higher strike price at expiry.


   Understanding a Bull Put Spread  

Investors typically use put options to profit from declines in a stock's price, since a put option gives them the ability—though not the obligation—to sell a stock at or before the expiration date of the contract. Each put option has a strike price, which is the price at which the option converts to the underlying stock. Investors pay a premium to purchase a put option.


   Profits and Loss From Put Options  

Investors typically buy put options when they are bearish on a stock, meaning they hope the stock will fall below the option's strike price. However, the bull put spread is designed to benefit from a stock's rise. If the stock trades above the strike at expiry, the put option expires worthless, because no one would sell the stock at a strike lower than the market price. As a result, the investor who bought the put loses the value of the premium they paid.



On the other hand, an investor who sells a put option is hoping the stock doesn't decrease but instead rises above the strike so the put option expires worthless. A put option seller—the option writer—receives the premium for selling the option initially and wants to keep that sum. However, if the stock declines below the strike, the put seller is on the hook. The option holder has a profit and will exercise their rights, selling their shares at the higher strike price. In other words, the put option is exercised against the seller.



The premium received by the seller would be reduced depending on how far the stock price falls below the put option's strike. The bull put spread is designed to allow the seller to keep the premium earned from selling the put option even if the stock's price declines.


   Construction of the Bull Put Spread  

A bull put spread consists of two put options. First, an investor buys one put option and pays a premium. At the same time, the investor sells a second put option with a strike price that is higher than the one they purchased, receiving a premium for that sale. Note that both options will have the same expiration date. Since puts lose value as the underlying increases, both options would expire worthless if the underlying price finishes higher than the highest strike. Therefore, the maximum profit would be the premium received from writing the spread.



Those who are bullish on an underlying stock could thus use a bull put spread to generate income with limited downside. However, there is a risk of loss with this strategy.















Credit Spread, using Puts.
Google Images


   Bull Put Profit and Loss  

The maximum profit for a bull put spread is equal to the difference between the amount received from the sold put and the amount paid for the purchased put. In other words, the net credit received initially is the maximum profit, which only happens if the stock's price closes above the higher strike price at expiry.



The goal of the bull put spread strategy is realized when the price of the underlying moves or stays above the higher strike price. The result is the sold option expires worthless. The reason it expires worthless is that no one would want to exercise it and sell their shares at the strike price if it's lower than the market price.



A drawback to the strategy is that it limits the profit earned if the stock rises well above the upper strike price of the sold put option. The investor would pocket the initial credit but miss out on any future gains.



If the stock is below the upper strike in the strategy, the investor will begin to lose money since the put option will likely be exercised. Someone in the market would want to sell their shares at this, more attractive, strike price.



However, the investor received a net credit for the strategy at the outset. This credit provides some cushion for the losses. Once the stock declines far enough to wipe out the credit received, the investor begins losing money on the trade.



If the stock price falls below the lower strike put option—the purchased put—both put options would have lost money, and maximum loss for the strategy is realized. The maximum loss is equal to the difference between the strike prices and the net credit received.





Pros

Investors can earn income from the net credit paid at the onset of the strategy.
The maximum loss on the strategy is capped and known upfront.



Cons

The risk of loss, at its maximum, is the difference between the strike prices and the net credit paid.
The strategy has limited profit potential and misses out on future gains if the stock price rises above the upper strike price.





   Example of a Bull Put Spread  

Let's say an investor is bullish on Apple (AAPL) over the next month. Imagine the stock currently trades at $275 per share. To implement a bull put spread, the investor:



Sells for $8.50 one put option with a strike of $280 expiring in one monthBuys for $2 one put option with a strike of $270 expiring in one month



The investor earns a net credit of $6.50 for the two options, or $8.50 credit - $2 premium paid. Because one options contract equals 100 shares of the underlying asset, the total credit received is $650.


  Scenario 1 Maximum Profit  

Let's say Apple rises and trades at $300 at expiry. The maximum profit is achieved and equals $650, or $8.50 - $2 = $6.50 x 100 shares = $650. Once the stock rises above the upper strike price, the strategy ceases to earn any additional profit.


  Scenario 2 Maximum Loss  

If Apple trades at $270 per share or below the low strike, the maximum loss is realized. However, the loss is capped at $350, or $280 put - $270 put - ($8.50 - $2) x 100 shares.



Ideally, the investor is looking for the stock to close above $280 per share on expiration, which would be the point at which maximum profit is achieved.



Correction—Dec. 24, 2021: A video in this article incorrectly labeled the graphs for Bull Put Spreads and Bear Put Spreads.
What Is a Bull Spread?  

A bull spread is an optimistic options strategy designed to profit from a moderate rise in the price of a security or asset. A variety of vertical spread, a bull spread involves the simultaneous purchase and sale of either call options or put options with different strike prices but with the same underlying asset and expiration date. Whether a put or a call, the option with the lower strike price is bought and the one with the higher strike price is sold.



A bull call spread is also called a debit call spread because the trade generates a net debt to the account when it is opened. The option purchased costs more than the option sold.


   The Basics of a Bull Spread  

If the strategy uses call options, it is called a bull call spread. If it uses put options, it is called a bull put spread. The practical difference between the two lies in the timing of the cash flows. For the bull call spread, you pay upfront and seek profit later when it expires. For the bull put spread, you collect money upfront and seek to hold on to as much of it as possible when it expires.



Both strategies involve collecting a premium on the sale of the options, so the initial cash investment is less than it would be by purchasing options alone.





Key Takeaways

A bull spread is an optimistic options strategy used when the investor expects a moderate rise in the price of the underlying asset.Bull spreads come in two types: bull call spreads, which use call options, and bull put spreads, which use put options.Bull spreads involve simultaneously buying and selling options with the same expiration date on the same asset, but at different strike prices.Bull spreads achieve maximum profit if the underlying asset closes at or above the higher strike price.


   How the Bull Call Spread Works  

Since a bull call spread involves writing a call option for a higher strike price than that of the current market in long calls, the trade typically requires an initial cash outlay. The investor simultaneously sells a call option, aka a short call, with the same expiration date; in so doing, he gets a premium, which offsets the cost of the first, long call he wrote to some extent.



The maximum profit in this strategy is the difference between the strike prices of the long and short options less the net cost of the options—in other words, the debit. The maximum loss is only limited to the net premium (debit) paid for the options.



A bull call spread's profit increases as the underlying security's price increases up to the strike price of the short call option. Thereafter, the profit remains stagnant if the underlying security's price increases beyond the short call's strike price.



Conversely, the position would have losses as the underlying security's price falls, but the losses remain stagnant if the underlying security's price falls below the long call option's strike price.


   How the Bull Put Spread Works  

A bull put spread is also called a credit put spread because the trade generates a net credit to the account when it is opened. The option purchased costs less than the option sold.



Since a bull put spread involves writing a put option that has a higher strike price than that of the long call options, the trade typically generates a credit at the start. The investor pays a premium for buying the put option but also gets paid a premium for selling a put option at a higher strike price than that of the one he purchased.



The maximum profit using this strategy is equal to the difference between the amount received from the sold put and the amount paid for the purchased put—the credit between the two, in effect. The maximum loss a trader can incur when using this strategy is equal to the difference between the strike prices minus the net credit received.


   Benefits and Disadvantages of Bull Spreads  

Bull spreads are not suited for every market condition. They work best in markets where the underlying asset is rising moderately and not making large price jumps. 



As mentioned above, the bull call limits its maximum loss to the net premium (debit) paid for the options. The bull call also caps profits up to the strike price of the short option.



The bull put, on the other hand, limits profits to the difference between what the trader paid for the two puts—one sold and one bought. Losses are capped at the difference between strike prices less the total credit received at the creation of the put spread.



By simultaneously selling and buying options of the same asset and expiration but with different strike prices the trader can reduce the cost of writing the option.





Pros

Limits losses
Reduces costs of option-writing
Works in moderately rising markets



Cons

Limits gains
Risk of short-call buyer exercising option (bull call spread)





   Calculating Bull Spread Profits and Losses  

Both strategies achieve maximum profit if the underlying asset closes at or above the higher strike price. Both strategies result in a maximum loss if the underlying asset closes at or below the lower strike price.



Breakeven, before commissions, in a bull call spread occurs at (lower strike price + net premium paid).



Breakeven, before commissions, in a bull put spread occurs at (upper strike price - net premium received).


   Real-World Example of a Bull Spread  

Let's say a moderately optimistic trader wants to try doing a bull call spread on the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (SPX). The Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) offers options on the index.



Assume the S&P 500 is at 4402. The trader purchases one two-month SPX 4400 call for a price of $33.75, and at the same time sells one two-month SPX 4405 call and receives $30.50. The total net debit for the spread is $33.50 – $30.75 = $2.75 x 100 contract multiplier = $275.00.



By purchasing the bull call spread the investor is saying that by the expiration he anticipates the SPX index to have risen moderately to a level above the break-even point: 4400 strike price + $2.75 (the net debit paid), or an SPX level of 4402.75. The investor’s maximum profit potential is limited: 4405 (higher strike) – 4400 (lower strike) = $5.00 – $2.75 (net debit paid) = $2.25 x $100 multiplier = $225 total.



This profit would be seen no matter how high the SPX index has risen by expiration. The downside risk for the bull call spread purchase is limited entirely to the total $275 premium paid for the spread no matter how low the SPX index declines.



Before expiration, if the call spread purchase becomes profitable the investor is free to sell the spread in the marketplace to realize this gain. On the other hand, if the investor’s moderately bullish outlook proves incorrect and the SPX index declines in price, the call spread might be sold to realize a loss less than the maximum.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Bull Trap?  

A bull trap is a false signal, referring to a declining trend in a stock, index, or other security that reverses after a convincing rally and breaks a prior support level. The move "traps" traders or investors that acted on the buy signal and generates losses on resulting long positions. A bull trap may also refer to a whipsaw pattern.



The opposite of a bull trap is a bear trap, which occurs when sellers fail to press a decline below a breakdown level.





Key Takeaways

A bull trap denotes a reversal that forces market participants on the wrong side of price action to exit positions with unexpected losses.Bull traps occur when buyers fail to support a rally above a breakout level.Traders and investors can lower the frequency of bull traps by seeking confirmation following a breakout through technical indicators and/or pattern divergences.


   Understanding a Bull Trap  

A bull trap occurs when a trader or investor buys a security that breaks out above a resistance level—a common technical analysis-based strategy. While many breakouts are followed by strong moves higher, the security may quickly reverse direction. These are known as "bull traps" because traders and investors who bought the breakout are "trapped" in the trade.



Traders and investors can avoid bull traps by looking for confirmations following a breakout. For example, a trader may look for higher than average volume and bullish candlesticks following a breakout to confirm that price is likely to move higher. A breakout that generates low volume and indecisive candlesticks—such as a doji star—could be a sign of a bull trap.



From a psychological standpoint, bull traps occur when bulls fail to support a rally above a breakout level, which could be due to a lack of momentum and/or profit-taking. Bears may jump on the opportunity to sell the security if they see divergences, dropping prices below resistance levels, which can then trigger stop-loss orders.



The best way to handle bull traps is to recognize warning signs ahead of time, such as low volume breakouts, and exit the trade as quickly as possible if a bull trap is suspected. Stop-loss orders can be helpful in these circumstances, especially if the market is moving quickly, to avoid letting emotion drive decision-making.


   Example of a Bull Trap  

In this example, the security sells off and hits a new 52-week low before rebounding sharply on high volume and lifting into trendline resistance. Many traders and investors jump on to the move, anticipating a breakout above trendline resistance but the security reverses at resistance and turns sharply lower from these levels. New bulls get trapped in long trades and incur rapid losses, unless aggressive risk management techniques are undertaken.



The trader or investor could have avoided the bull trap by waiting for a breakout to unfold before purchasing the security, or at least mitigated losses by setting a tight stop-loss order just below the breakout level.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020
What Is a Bullet Bond?  

A bullet bond is a debt investment whose entire principal value is paid in one lump sum on its maturity date, rather than amortized over its lifetime. Bullet bonds cannot be redeemed early by their issuer, which means they are non-callable.



Bullet bonds issued by stable governments typically pay a relatively low rate of interest due to the negligible risk that the lender will default on that lump sum payment. A corporate bullet bond may have to pay a higher interest rate if the corporation has a less-than-stellar credit rating.



In any case, bullet bonds generally pay less than comparable callable bonds because the bullet bond does not give the lender the option of buying it back if interest rates change.





Key Takeaways

A bullet bond is a non-callable bond in which the principal is repaid as a lump sum when the bond matures.Both governments and corporations issue bullet bonds in a variety of maturities.The issuer of a bullet bond accepts the risk that interest rates during the life of the bond will decrease, rendering its rate of return relatively costly.


   Understanding Bullet Bonds  

Both corporations and governments issue bullet bonds in a variety of maturities, from short- to long-term. A portfolio made up of bullet bonds is generally referred to as a bullet portfolio.



A bullet bond is generally considered riskier to its issuer than an amortizing bond because it obliges the issuer to repay the entire amount on a single date rather than in a series of smaller repayments over time.



As a result, issuers who are relatively new to the market or who have less than excellent credit ratings may attract more investors with an amortizing bond than with a bullet bond.



Typically, bullet bonds are more expensive for the investor to purchase compared to an equivalent callable bond since the investor is protected against a bond call if interest rates fall.






A "bullet" is a one-time lump-sum repayment of an outstanding loan made by the borrower. 


   Bullet Bonds vs. Amortizing Bonds  

Bullet bonds differ from amortizing bonds in their method of payment.



Amortized bonds are repaid in regular, scheduled payments that include both interest and part of the principal. In this way, the loan is entirely repaid at its maturity date.



In contrast, bullet bonds may require small, interest-only payments, or no payments at all, until the maturity date. On that date, the entire loan plus any remaining accrued interest must be repaid.


   Example of a Bullet Bond  

Pricing a bullet bond is straightforward. First, the total payments for each period must be calculated and then discounted to a present value using the following formula:



Present Value (PV) = Pmt / (1 + (r / 2)) ^ (p)



Where:



Pmt = total payment for the periodr = bond yieldp = payment period



For example, imagine a bond with a par value of $1,000. Its yield is 5%, its coupon rate is 3%, and the bond pays the coupon twice per year over a period of five years.



Given this information, there are nine periods for which a $15 coupon payment is made, and one period (the last one) for which a $15 coupon payment is made and the $1,000 principal is repaid.



Using the formula, the payments will be as follows:



Period 1: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (1) = $14.63Period 2: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (2) = $14.28Period 3: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (3) = $13.93Period 4: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (4) = $13.59Period 5: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (5) = $13.26Period 6: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (6) = $12.93Period 7: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (7) = $12.62Period 8: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (8) = $12.31Period 9: PV = $15 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (9) = $12.01Period 10: PV = $1,015 / (1 + (5% / 2)) ^ (10) = $792.92



These 10 present values equal $912.48, which is the price of the bond.
What Is a Bullet Repayment?  

A bullet repayment is a lump sum payment made for the entirety of an outstanding loan amount, usually at maturity. It can also be a single payment of principal on a bond.



In terms of banking and real estate, loans with bullet repayments are also referred to as balloon loans. These types of loans are commonly used in mortgage and business loans to reduce monthly payments during the term of the loans.






A bullet repayment due at a loan’s maturity often necessitates advanced planning to have a refinancing facility in place, unless borrowers have the cash to pay off the large lump sum.


   How Bullet Repayments Work  

Bullet repayments and balloon loans are not normally amortized over the duration of the loan. The final balloon payment is often the only principal payment made, but the balance might occasionally be amortized through other smaller, incremental payments before the balloon payment comes due. The final payment is nonetheless significantly larger than the others, and it retires the loan.



The deferral of principal payments until the loan matures results in lower monthly payments during the life of the loan because these payments usually represent only interest. But this presents a significant risk to borrowers who aren't prepared to make the large lump sum payment or who don't have other arrangements in place to deal with the bullet repayment.



Bullet repayments have also been integrated with fixed-income based exchange-traded-funds (ETFs), giving them bond-like predictability for investors.


   Bullet Repayment vs. Amortization  

The difference between interest-only payments on a loan with a bullet repayment and amortizing mortgage payments can be quite significant. For example, the yearly interest would be $9,600 and monthly payments would be $800 on a 15-year interest-only mortgage of $320,000 with a 3% interest rate. That same loan with amortization would have a monthly payment of $2,210.



The monthly payment schedule clearly favors the interest-only loan, but the interest-only borrower faces a bullet repayment of $320,000.





Key Takeaways

Loans with bullet repayments are commonly used to reduce monthly payments to interest-only payments during the term of the loans, but a large, final payment of principal eventually comes due.Balloon lenders sometimes offer borrowers an option to convert loans to traditional amortizing loans rather than face a huge one-time payment.Bullet repayments have also been integrated with fixed-income based exchange-traded-funds (ETFs), giving them bond-like predictability for investors.


   Example of ETF Bullet Payments  

The investors assume the role of lenders in ETFs with bullet repayment dates, while the funds act as the borrowers.



Funds with bullet repayments are usually composed of bonds, notes, and fixed-income vehicles with maturities preceding the bullet repayment date. Investors receive regular interest payments on their shares during the term of the fund, and they're repaid the principal from the matured portfolio holdings on the bullet repayment date.



The key benefit of the bullet repayment for investors is the predictability of the return of principal on a specified date, much like the maturity of a bond.


   Special Considerations  

A borrower basically has two options if money is not available to pay a loan in full as the bullet repayment date approaches. The property can be sold, with the proceeds used to pay the loan principal, or the loan can be refinanced, taking out a new loan to cover the bullet repayment.



Under certain circumstances, balloon lenders might offer borrowers the option to convert loans to traditional amortizing loans rather than face a huge one-time payment.
What Is a Bullish Abandoned Baby?  

The bullish abandoned baby is a type of candlestick pattern that is used by traders to signal a reversal of a downtrend. It forms in a downtrend and is composed of three price bars. The first is a large down candle, followed by a doji candle that gaps below the first candle. The next candle opens higher than the doji and moves aggressively to the upside.



The expectation is that the price will continue to move higher as the pattern shows that selling has been at least temporarily exhausted. The bullish abandoned baby can be contrasted with a bearish abandoned baby pattern, which marks the possible end of an uptrend.





Key Takeaways

The bullish abandoned baby is a three-bar pattern following a downtrend. It consists of a strong down candle, a gapped down doji, and then a strong bullish candle that gaps up.This pattern signals the potential end of a downtrend and the start of a price move higher.Some traders allow for slight variation. There may be more than one doji, or gaps may not be present after the first or second candle. But the overall psychology of the pattern should still be present.


   Understanding the Bullish Abandoned Baby  

Traders watch for bullish abandoned baby patterns to signal the potential end of a downtrend. The pattern is fairly rare as the price movements need to meet specific criteria in order to create the pattern.



The first bar is a large down candlestick located within a defined downtrend.
The second bar is a doji candle (open is approximately equal to the close) that gaps below the close of the first bar.
The third bar is a large white candle that opens above the second bar.



The psychology or idea behind the pattern is that the price has been dropping aggressively and just had a big sell-off again (first down candle). The price then forms a doji, which shows selling is leveling off as the open and close prices of the doji are nearly the same.



Dojis are commonly associated with indecision. In this case, the doji means that sellers may be losing momentum and buyers are starting to step in. The doji, or dojis, are followed by a strong advancing candle that typically gaps higher from the doji. This shows that buyers have regained control and that the selling has at least temporarily been exhausted.



Traders may manually search for the bullish abandoned baby, or trade it when they see it, but they can also scan for the pattern using trading software.















Bullish Abandoned Baby Pattern.


   Special Considerations  

Some traders will allow for slight variations. For example, the doji may not gap below the close of the first candle, instead opening near the prior close and staying there.



Sometimes there are two or three dojis before the price makes its upward move. This would be acceptable to some traders since the pattern is still showing a drop, a leveling off, and then a sharp rise.


   Trading the Bullish Abandoned Baby  

While there are multiple ways to trade the bullish abandoned baby pattern, here are some general ideas on how to do it.



Entry: Some traders enter on a break above the third bar in the pattern using a stop-limit order. The expectation is that the price will continue to move higher, so if it does, by moving above the high of the third bar, this could be used as a buying opportunity.                                             
Stop-Loss Order: To avoid getting stopped out prematurely, traders could place a stop-loss order below the lower shadow of the bullish abandoned baby bar (doji). Traders who would like to risk less could place a stop-loss order just below the low of the third bar in the pattern. Increased volatility often accompanies trend reversals. Keep this in mind when selecting a stop-loss location.
Profit Target: The pattern does not have a profit target. Some other exit method will need to be used to realize any profit that may occur.



A profit target at a Fibonacci retracement level could be used. For example, traders might set a profit target at a 50% retracement of the downtrend that preceded the bullish abandoned baby pattern.



Other options may include setting a target at a fixed risk/reward ratio. For instance, if risking $500, set a profit target at a $1,000 or $1,500 gain. A trader could also use technical indicators, or exit when the price drops below a chosen moving average.


   Example of a Bullish Abandoned Baby  

The bullish abandoned baby is fairly rare since its pattern has strict requirements. Some traders allow the restrictions to be relaxed slightly, which means more patterns will be found, and the results can still be quite good.



A few variations of the pattern formed in Macy's Inc. After the price declined, on a number of occasions it formed a bullish abandoned baby bottom. These patterns were followed by strong moves to the upside.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Pattern one is a slight variation of the traditional pattern, as the doji doesn't gap below the prior close, and there are two dojis. Yet the sentiment of the pattern still shows a bullish shift. The pattern has a strong drop, indecision and leveling off, and then a strong surge higher after the dojis.



Pattern two is more traditional, except there are once again two dojis. This is acceptable, and the price shot higher following the pattern.



Pattern three is also a slight variation, as the doji didn't gap below the prior candle's close. The price moved higher following the doji, though, and an uptrend commenced.


   Similar Patterns  

Both the bullish and bearish abandoned baby patterns are similar to the evening star and morning star formations. The difference that makes the abandoned baby patterns so rare is the occurrence of the doji candle with a gap on either side. The evening star and morning star formations do not require the middle candle to be a doji, or to have gaps on either side.



The name "doji", like many of the names of candlestick patterns, comes from a traditional usage among rice traders in Japan. Steve Nison is credited with first publishing this name in the popular press in 1991, though the name has been around in Japanese trading for centuries. This pattern is also similar to the bar-chart pattern known as an island reversal but with only a single candle.
What Is a Bullish Engulfing Pattern?  

A bullish engulfing pattern is a white candlestick that closes higher than the previous day's opening after opening lower than the previous day's close. It can be identified when a small black candlestick, showing a bearish trend, is followed the next day by a large white candlestick, showing a bullish trend, the body of which completely overlaps or engulfs the body of the previous day’s candlestick.



A bullish engulfing pattern may be contrasted with a bearish engulfing pattern.





Key Takeaways

A bullish engulfing pattern is a candlestick pattern that forms when a small black candlestick is followed the next day by a large white candlestick, the body of which completely overlaps or engulfs the body of the previous day’s candlestick.Bullish engulfing patterns are more likely to signal reversals when they are preceded by four or more black candlesticks.Investors should look not only to the two candlesticks which form the bullish engulfing pattern but also to the preceding candlesticks.






   Understanding a Bullish Engulfing Pattern  

The bullish engulfing pattern is a two-candle reversal pattern. The second candle completely ‘engulfs’ the real body of the first one, without regard to the length of the tail shadows.



This pattern appears in a downtrend and is a combination of one dark candle followed by a larger hollow candle. On the second day of the pattern, the price opens lower than the previous low, yet buying pressure pushes the price up to a higher level than the previous high, culminating in an obvious win for the buyers.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 






It is advisable to enter a long position when the price moves higher than the high of the second engulfing candle—in other words when the downtrend reversal is confirmed.


   What Does a Bullish Engulfing Pattern Tell You?  

A bullish engulfing pattern is not to be interpreted as simply a white candlestick, representing upward price movement, following a black candlestick, representing downward price movement. For a bullish engulfing pattern to form, the stock must open at a lower price on Day 2 than it closed at on Day 1. If the price did not gap down, the body of the white candlestick would not have a chance to engulf the body of the previous day’s black candlestick.



Because the stock both opens lower than it closed on Day 1 and closes higher than it opened on Day 1, the white candlestick in a bullish engulfing pattern represents a day in which bears controlled the price of the stock in the morning only to have bulls decisively take over by the end of the day.



The white candlestick of a bullish engulfing pattern typically has a small upper wick, if any. That means the stock closed at or near its highest price, suggesting that the day ended while the price was still surging upward.



This lack of an upper wick makes it more likely that the next day will produce another white candlestick that will close higher than the bullish engulfing pattern closed, though it’s also possible that the next day will produce a black candlestick after gapping up at the opening. Because bullish engulfing patterns tend to signify trend reversals, analysts pay particular attention to them.


   Bullish Engulfing Pattern vs. Bearish Engulfing Pattern  

These two patterns are opposites of one another. A bearish engulfing pattern occurs after a price moves higher and indicates lower prices to come. Here, the first candle, in the two-candle pattern, is an up candle. The second candle is a larger down candle, with a real body that fully engulfs the smaller up candle.


   Example of a Bullish Engulfing Pattern  

As a historical example, let's consider Philip Morris (PM) stock. The company's shares were a great long in 2011 and remained in an uptrend. In 2012, though, the stock was retreating.



On January 13, 2012, a bullish engulfing pattern occurred; the price jumped from an open of $76.22 to close out the day at $77.32. This bullish day dwarfed the prior day's intraday range where the stock finished down marginally. The move showed that the bulls were still alive and another wave in the uptrend could occur.















Bullish Engulfing Pattern Example.


   Bullish Engulfing Candle Reversals  

Investors should look not only to the two candlesticks which form the bullish engulfing pattern but also to the preceding candlesticks. This larger context will give a clearer picture of whether the bullish engulfing pattern marks a true trend reversal.



Bullish engulfing patterns are more likely to signal reversals when they are preceded by four or more black candlesticks. The more preceding black candlesticks the bullish engulfing candle engulfs, the greater the chance a trend reversal is forming, confirmed by a second white candlestick closing higher than the bullish engulfing candle.


   Acting on a Bullish Engulfing Pattern  

Ultimately, traders want to know whether a bullish engulfing pattern represents a change of sentiment, which means it may be a good time to buy. If volume increases along with price, aggressive traders may choose to buy near the end of the day of the bullish engulfing candle, anticipating continuing upward movement the following day. More conservative traders may wait until the following day, trading potential gains for greater certainty that a trend reversal has begun.


   Limitations of Using Engulfing Patterns  

A bullish engulfing pattern can be a powerful signal, especially when combined with the current trend; however, they are not bullet-proof. Engulfing patterns are most useful following a clean downward price move as the pattern clearly shows the shift in momentum to the upside. If the price action is choppy, even if the price is rising overall, the significance of the engulfing pattern is diminished since it is a fairly common signal.



The engulfing or second candle may also be huge. This can leave a trader with a very large stop loss if they opt to trade the pattern. The potential reward from the trade may not justify the risk.



Establishing the potential reward can also be difficult with engulfing patterns, as candlesticks don't provide a price target. Instead, traders will need to use other methods, such as indicators or trend analysis, for selecting a price target or determining when to get out of a profitable trade.
What Is a Bullish Harami?  

A bullish harami is a basic candlestick chart pattern indicating that a bearish trend in an asset or market may be reversing.





Key Takeaways

A bullish harami is a candlestick chart indicator used for spotting reversals in a bear trend.It is generally indicated by a small increase in price (signified by a white candle) that can be contained within the given equity's downward price movement (signified by black candles) from the past couple of days.


   Understanding a Bullish Harami  

A bullish harami is a candlestick chart indicator suggesting that a bearish trend may be coming to end. Some investors may look at a bullish harami as a good sign that they should enter a long position on an asset.



A candlestick chart is a type of chart used to track the performance of a security, named for the rectangular shape depicted in the chart, with lines protruding from the top and bottom, which resembles a candle and wicks. A candlestick chart typically represents the price data of stock on a single day, including opening price, closing price, high price, and low price.



Investors looking to identify harami patterns must first look for daily market performance reported in candlestick charts. Harami patterns emerge over two or more days of trading, and a bullish harami relies on initial candles to indicate that a downward price trend is continuing, and that a bearish market looks to be pushing the price lower.



The bullish harami indicator is charted as a long candlestick followed by a smaller body, referred to as a doji, that is completely contained within the vertical range of the previous body. To some, a line drawn around this pattern resembles a pregnant woman. The word harami comes from an old Japanese word meaning pregnant.



For a bullish harami to appear, a smaller body on the subsequent doji will close higher within the body of the previous day’s candle, signaling a greater likelihood that a reversal will occur. 












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart above depicts a bullish harami. The first two black candles indicate a two-day downward trend in the asset, and the white candle represents a slightly upward trend on the third day, which is completely contained by the body of the previous candle. Investors seeing this bullish harami may be encouraged by this diagram, as it can signal a reversal in the market.


   Bullish Harami, Bearish Harami, and Advanced Candlestick Patterns  

Analysts looking for fast ways to analyze daily market performance data will rely on patterns in candlestick charts to expedite understanding and decision-making.



While the bullish harami and its counterpart, the bearish harami, serve to predict upcoming reversals in the trending direction of prices, candlestick chart analysis offers a wide range of patterns to predict future trends. Bullish and bearish haramis are among a handful of basic candlestick patterns, including bullish and bearish crosses, evening stars, rising threes, and engulfing patterns. A deeper analysis provides insight using more advanced candlestick patterns, including island reversal, hook reversal, and san-ku or three gaps patterns.
What Is a Bundle of Rights?  

A bundle of rights is a term for the set of legal privileges that is generally afforded to a real estate buyer with the transfer of the title. The bundle includes the following:



The right of possessionThe right of controlThe right of exclusionThe right of enjoymentThe right of disposition






The average homebuyer can expect the whole traditional bundle of rights once the deal is done.



Real estate ownership carries with it a complex set of rights, and the bundle of rights concept traditionally has been how those rights are described and summarized. It is a feature of many real estate license tests and first-year law classes.





Key Takeaways

A buyer of property gets a bundle of rights along with the title.These rights generally give the buyer the freedom to use the property within the limits of the law.Commercial property investors may share some of these rights with other parties.


   Understanding a Bundle of Rights  

The average homebuyer can expect the whole traditional bundle of rights once the deal is done. That is, homebuyers expect to have the right of possession, of control, of exclusion, of enjoyment, and of disposition.



However, these rights can be broken up and assigned to different parties. This usually applies to commercial and investment property purchases. For example, the buyer of a rental property may have rights that are limited by local landlord-tenant laws and regulations, or the owner of a storefront property may share certain rights with the tenant who runs a business there.



In any case, a real estate owner’s bundle of rights can be exercised only with the boundaries of many other laws. For example, a homeowner’s right of enjoyment may not be exercised beyond the limits of local noise control laws.


  Right of Possession  

The right of possession simply states that the titleholder is the legal owner of the property.


  Right of Control  

The titleholder can use the property in any way that is not illegal. In practice, a homeowner association (HOA) can place additional restrictions on anything from garden ornaments to pet ownership, though these rules are not laws.


  Right of Exclusion  

The right of exclusion allows the titleholder to limit who may enter the property. This one has few real limits. Easements may be in place permitting access to utility lines that override this right. A warrant authorizing a search of the property trumps the right of exclusion. Additionally, an owner of a rental property may not have right of exclusion for who their tenant lets on the property depending on the terms of the lease and local laws.


  Right of Enjoyment  

The right to enjoyment asserts the titleholder’s right to participate in any activities that they find pleasurable while on the property. This assumes, once again, that those activities are lawful.


  Right of Disposition  

The right of disposition protects the titleholder’s right to transfer ownership, permanently or temporarily, to another party. This right is fully realized only when the property is owned outright and not mortgaged. An exclusion also applies if the property is subject to a lien.




Does Homeowner Association (HOA) Authority Supersede My Rights as Property Owner?
This depends on the state where you live and the covenants, convictions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) that you signed and agreed to when you purchased the property. The homeowner association (HOA) may have the right to impose certain penalties on you if you do not follow their rules, which can effectively restrict your rights as a property owner.




Who Has More Rights, Landlord or Tenant?
That depends on your local laws and how tenant-friendly or landlord-friendly they are. In some states, landlords have very few restrictions on entering property, selling property, evicting tenants, and so on. In other states, tenants have more rights and, for example, must grant permission before a landlord can enter a property and must be given certain periods of notice before a landlord can sell the property. In addition to local statutes, each judiciary has purview to decide which cases to hear and when, which puts some statutes in effect regardless of laws on the books.




How Does the Bundle of Rights Work with Multiple Owners?
If there are multiple owners on a property, then the bundle of rights belongs to both equally—which is both a protection and a hindrance, depending on circumstances. For example, if a home is owned by a married couple and that couple gets divorced, then one spouse would need permission from the other to sell the house.


   The Bottom Line  

As a property owner, you get the rights of possession, control, exclusion, enjoyment, and disposition once you close on the property. This bundle of rights gives you all of the rights that you would expect once you own a property. However, there are exclusions, depending on the type of property you own and if you are renting it out to tenants.
What Is a Bungalow?  

A bungalow is a one-story house, cottage, or cabin. Bungalows are generally small in terms of square footage, but it is not uncommon to see very large bungalows. Bungalows were originally designed to provide affordable, modern housing for the working class.





Key Takeaways

A bungalow is a style of house or cottage that is typically either a single story or has a second, half, or partial story, that is built into a sloped roof.Bungalows are typically small in terms of size and square footage and often are distinguished by the presence of dormer windows and verandas.Bungalows are cost-efficient, easy to maintain, and due to increased square footage versus multi-story homes, relatively easy to modify.On the downside, Bungalows have smaller and fewer rooms than multi-story houses, and are more vulnerable to break-ins, due to how low they sit on the ground.


   Understanding Bungalows  

Bungalows are most often one-story houses, although they often also include an additional half story, usually with a sloped roof. There are various types of bungalows, including raised bungalows that have basements partially above ground to let in additional sunlight. There are also some bungalows that branch away from the original definition by adding additional levels such as lofts and half levels. Common features of the bungalow include a dormer window and a veranda.


   Bungalow Characteristics  

Bungalows are small and easy to maintain and are therefore great homes for aging adults or people with disabilities. They are also cost-efficient; heating and cooling costs tend to be lower, and the property value tends to remain relatively high. Because bungalows occupy more square footage than multi-story homes, they tend to allow more space for modifications and additions. They also afford more privacy than most traditional homes, as they're low to the ground and the windows can easily be blocked by trees, shrubs, and fences. 



On the other hand, bungalows tend to occupy a larger area of land than their multi-story counterparts; since they don't extend upwards, they take up more square footage on the first floor. This means that the initial costs are higher since they cost more per square foot, and they also require more material for roofing. 



Bungalows also tend to have smaller and fewer rooms extending off a larger living room, as opposed to large bedrooms or an open floor plan. Also, because they're low to the ground, they're more susceptible to break-ins; therefore, it's a good idea to invest in a home security system if you purchase a bungalow.






Currently-popular Bungalow styles include California, Chicago, and the chalet. 


   History of Bungalows  

Bungalows were first built in the South Asian region of Bengal. Bungalows, which derive their name from Hindi, were first identified as such by British sailors of the East India Company in the 18th century. As time progressed, a bungalow came to refer to a large dwelling, often representing high social status in both Britain and America.



The term bungalow as we now know it – a small dwelling, typically one story – developed in the 20th century, although its definition varies in different areas of the world. For example, in India today, the term generally refers to any single-family dwelling, regardless of how many stories it has.



In Canada and the United Kingdom, a bungalow almost exclusively refers to one-story units. Australia tends toward the California bungalow, a type of bungalow that was popular in the United States from about 1908 to 1940 and expanded abroad as Hollywood became popular and increased the desirability of American-made products.



The California bungalow is one to one-and-a-half stories and features a large porch, sloping roof, and Spanish-inspired details. Other types of now-popular bungalow styles include the Chicago bungalow, which has Chicago roots circa the 1910s and is typically made of brick, and the chalet bungalow, which deviates from the one-story norm by having a second-story loft.
What Is the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)?  

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is a federal agency that collects and disseminates various data about the U.S. economy and labor market. Its reports include the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the Producer Price Index (PPI), both of which are considered to be important measures of inflation.





Key Takeaways

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is an American government agency tasked with collecting and disseminating a range of economic and employment data.The BLS is responsible for two key inflation indicators: the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Producer Price Index (PPI).In addition, the BLS produces national and regional figures on employment, labor force participation, productivity, and wages.


   Understanding the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)  

The primary purpose of the BLS, an arm of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), is to research, assemble, and publish a range of statistical data on the labor market, prices, and productivity. This government agency goes to great lengths to ensure the accuracy, impartiality, and accessibility of its reports and the statistics it produces are among the most influential economic indicators for the American economy.



BLS data is frequently cited by the media and relied on by businesses, academics, and policymakers to inform their decision making. It's also closely watched by economists and market participants, who consult the bureau's releases to generate better and more accurate predictions for how the economy and markets will perform in the future.






Throughout its history, the BLS has been relied upon for empirical evidence to inform economic policy, including to justify raising the minimum wage.


  Most Important Data Releases  

Some of the most important statistical releases published by the BLS include:



The Consumer Price Index (CPI): An aggregate of the prices of a relatively fixed basket of goods, which is used as a standard gauge of inflation and the cost of living.
The Producer Price Index (PPI): A measure of the average prices American producers receive for their goods and services.
Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS): A range of localized data about labor efficiency and unemployment.
The National Compensation Survey (NCS): Produces comprehensive aggregates of workers' earnings across a variety of sectors.
Current Population Survey (CPS): Sponsored jointly with the Census Bureau, this is a monthly survey that seeks to determine the demographic characteristics and employment status of all individuals of a household who are of working age.﻿﻿ Also known as the "household survey," the CPS includes the national unemployment rate and is the primary source for U.S. labor force statistics.


   History of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)  

The BLS was first established as a branch of the Department of the Interior in 1884 with a mandate to research and compile information about economics and labor. For nearly 15 years, it subsequently operated as an independent department, before being incorporated into the short-lived Department of Commerce and Labor in 1903.



That move only lasted a decade. When the Department of Commerce and Labor was renamed the Department of Commerce (DOC) in 1913, the BLS, along with other bureaus and agencies concerned with labor, was then transferred into the newly-created DOL, a US cabinet-level agency responsible for enforcing federal labor standards and promoting workers' wellbeing.
What Is a Bureaucracy?  

The term bureaucracy refers to a complex organization that has multilayered systems and processes. The systems and processes that are put in place effectively make decision-making slow. They are designed to maintain uniformity and control within the organization.



A bureaucracy describes the methods that are commonly established in governments and large organizations, such as corporations. A bureaucracy is pivotal in the administration of the entity's rules and regulations.





Key Takeaways

The word bureaucracy implies a complex structure with multiple layers and procedures. The systems that are put in place under a bureaucracy make decision-making slow.Bureaucracies can render systems formal and rigid, which is needed when following safety procedures is critical.The term bureaucracy is often criticized and deemed negative because of the implication that procedures are more important than efficiency.The Glass-Steagall Act is a good example of effective bureaucracy in place in the United States. 


   How a Bureaucracy Works  

The bureaucratic process lends itself to criticism and is synonymous with redundancy, arbitrariness, and inefficiency. People often use terms like bureaucrat, bureaucratic, and bureaucracy in a negative context. For instance, calling someone a bureaucrat implies they're a government official while the term bureaucratic implies that procedures are more important than efficiency. One common use of the word bureaucracy is the ability to make impossibilities a reality.



But there is a more balanced way to look at a bureaucracy. From a structural standpoint, it stems from the effort to lead organizations through closed systems. These systems are meant to be formal and rigid in order to maintain order. Perhaps the single most identifiable characteristic of a bureaucracy is the use of hierarchical procedures to simplify or replace autonomous decisions.



A bureaucrat makes implicit assumptions about an organization and how it operates. One assumption is that the entity cannot rely on an open system of operations, which is either too complex or too uncertain to survive. Instead, a closed and rationally reviewed system should be implemented and followed.






Procedural correctness is paramount within a bureaucracy.


   Bureaucracy vs. Governance vs. Administration  

Bureaucracy is not the same as governance or administration. Some administrative structures are not bureaucratic, and many bureaucracies are not part of administrative structures. So what's the difference? The distinction lies in the objectives of each system.



Bureaucracies ensure procedural correctness irrespective of the circumstances or goals. Governance includes processes, procedures, and systems that are implemented by an organization to:



Make decisionsAssign individuals who make those decisionsProvide oversightCollect data and report performance results



An administration, on the other hand, directs organizational resources toward an objective goal such as generating profits or administering a service.



In modern industrial societies, dual bureaucracies often exist between private companies and government regulatory agencies. Whenever a regulatory bureaucracy exists to impose rules on business activity, the private company may create a bureaucracy to avoid violating such regulations.






Bureaucracies are all around us. For instance, an oil company may establish a bureaucracy to compel its employees to complete safety checks when operating on an oil rig.


   Criticisms of a Bureaucracy  

Bureaucratic structures tend to be backward-looking, identifying procedures that worked well in the past. This backward perspective creates a conflict with entrepreneurs and innovators who prefer forward-looking concepts and attempt to identify ways in which processes could be improved.



For example, agile processes that make improvements through an iterative process characterized by self-organization and accountability. Over time, a rigid bureaucracy reduces operational efficiency, particularly compared to rival organizations without large bureaucracies. Losses in efficiency are most pronounced in circumstances where bureaucracy is also used to insulate established power structures from the competition.



Classic bureaucratic rigidity and protectionism are prevalent in the U.S. government. For example, firing poor performers is difficult because there is an arduous termination process that has been put in place.


   Examples of Bureaucracy  

Examples of bureaucracy are all around us. Workplaces, schools, governments, all typically have hierarchical structures with individuals filling positions based on skill or merit (real or perceived).



In a Harvard Business Review article, James L. Heskett questioned whether bureaucracy is a good thing in government or private businesses. The article describes bureaucracies as entities that focus on decision rights rather than decision making and states that "they are not created to deliberate or think.” According to comments from contributors to the article, "Bureaucracies are far too often about themselves and expanding the power and influence of the people who head them.”



Some of the article's contributors who served in government agencies defend the role of bureaucracy while recognizing that reforming bureaucracies could provide greater autonomy to decision-makers. Another comment noted that the bureaucracy of the U.S. government was effective in its creation of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which established the provisions for separating commercial and investment banking, and the social programs created through the New Deal. The New Deal was an initiative of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, also in 1933, whereby many social programs helped the United States to recover from the Great Depression.


   Origins of Bureaucracy  

The concept of bureaucracy is fairly old, going back to the Han dynasty in China. But the modern interpretation of the idea dates back to 18th century France.



The term bureaucracy is a hybrid word whose roots go back to French and Greek. It's made up of the French word bureau, which means desk or office, and the Greek term kratein, which means to rule. The use of these two words together combine to loosely mean ruling by or from a desk or office. The word was first officially in France used after the French Revolution. From there, the word and concept spread throughout the rest of the world.



19th-century German sociologist Max Weber was one of the first scholars to use the term and expand its influence. He described the concept of bureaucracy in a positive (idealized) sense and considered the ideal bureaucracy to be both efficient and rational. He believed that bureaucracy clearly defined the roles of the individuals involved and helped narrow the focus of administrative goals. For Weber, bureaucracy was key to capitalism, since it allowed organizations to persist even as individuals come and go.




What Is a Bureaucrat?
The term bureaucrat refers to someone who is a member of a bureaucracy. This can allude to someone who is a government official or someone in a position of power, such as a chief executive officer or board member of a company or another organization.




What’s Good About a Bureaucracy?
Bureaucracies can help organizations run smoothly and efficiently. This allows large organizations to streamline processes and bring order to systems and procedures. Management becomes easier and processes become less chaotic. Bureaucracies tend to include a division of labor with clearly defined roles. They also ensure that everyone is treated equally and fairly, which means there is no bias toward any one entity. For instance, the government makes everyone fill out the same (often cumbersome) paperwork for benefits like student loans.




What’s Bad About a Bureaucracy?
Bureaucracies are often looked down upon because people view them as valuing procedures over efficiency. Many people feel that rules and paperwork can pile up under bureaucracies. This is often referred to as the red tape people and companies need to overcome in order to achieve certain goals like establishing a business. Rules and regulations can often be difficult to navigate and may even favor some people over others, such as the wealthy.




What Are the Most Common Characteristics of a Bureaucracy?
Some of the most common characteristics of a bureaucracy include a hierarchy, rules and regulations, and specialization. The hierarchy establishes scales of power—those with the most power are at the top while individuals who have the least fall at the bottom. Rules and regulations are typically formal and indicate how processes and functions are to be conducted. Specialization entails the use of training to allow people to do their jobs properly under the structure.


   The Bottom Line  

Bureaucracies are all around us from the companies for which we work to the governments that rule our world's countries. They are in place to ensure that things run efficiently and by the book—that is, that people follow the rules, whether that's to conduct health and safety checks while on the job, to get a permit for a building project, or to access government benefits.



As much as they're supposed to help keep everyone on track, bureaucracies are often criticized for being cumbersome and for putting the emphasis on procedure and policy rather than efficiency. Regardless of how you feel about them—whether it's positive or negative—bureaucracies aren't going away. They are, in fact, a part of the structure of many organizations.
What Is Burn Rate?  

The burn rate represents the speed at which an unprofitable company consumes its cash reserves. In the case of a startup company, it is the rate at which a new company is spending its venture capital to finance overhead before generating positive cash flow from operations. Thus, it is a measure of negative cash flow.



Burn rate is most often a consideration for young life sciences or technology companies without profits and, in some cases, without revenue. It is usually quoted in terms of cash spent per month. For example, if a company is said to have a burn rate of $1 million, it would mean that the company is spending $1 million per month.





Key Takeaways

The burn rate is the pace at which a new company not yet generating profits consumes its cash reserves.The burn rate is typically calculated in terms of the amount of cash that the company is spending per month.Gross burn is the total amount of operating costs that a company racks up each month, while net burn is the total amount of money that a company loses monthly.The burn rate affects a company’s financial “runway,” which is how long the company has before its operating capital is exhausted; a higher rate means a shorter runway.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding the Burn Rate  

The burn rate is used by startup companies and investors to track the amount of monthly cash that a company spends before it starts generating its own income. A company’s burn rate is also used as a measuring stick for what is termed its “runway”—the amount of time that the company has before it runs out of money.



If a company has $1 million in the bank and spends $100,000 a month, its runway would be 10 months, derived as:


Total Capital ÷ Monthly Operating Expenses = Runway



In this case, that would be:


$1,000,000 ÷ $100,000 = 10 months






A company can reduce its gross burn rate by producing revenue and/or cutting costs, such as reducing staff or seeking cheaper means of production.


   How to Calculate the Burn Rate  

There are two types of burn rates: net burn and gross burn. A company’s gross burn rate is simply the total amount of operating costs that it incurs in expenses each month, expressed as:


Total Monthly Operating Costs = Gross Burn Rate



A company’s net burn rate, however, is the total amount of money that a company loses each month. This can’t be greater than the gross burn rate, but it can be less.



For example, if a technology startup spends $5,000 monthly on office space, $10,000 on monthly server costs, and $15,000 on salaries and wages for its engineers, its gross burn rate would be $30,000. However, if the company is also producing revenue, its net burn rate would be different, calculated as follows:


(Monthly Revenue - Cost of Goods Sold) - Gross Burn Rate = Net Burn Rate



Let’s say that the above company with a gross burn rate of $30,000 also has revenues of $20,000 a month from selling goods, and let’s put the costs of those goods to the company at $10,000 a month. The company’s net burn rate would be $20,000, derived as:


($20,000 - $10,000) - $30,000 = -$20,000



Even if the company is spending $30,000 every month, the actual amount it is losing per month is only $20,000. This is an important distinction, because it alters the financial runway. If the company had $100,000 in the bank, its runway would be five months rather than three months. The longer stretch of time will affect both how the managers outline the company’s strategy and the amount of money that an investor might be willing to put into the company.



If the burn rate begins to exceed its forecast, or if revenue fails to meet expectations, the usual recourse is to reduce the burn rate, regardless of how much money is in the bank. This requires rethinking the startup’s cost structure and usually means reducing staff and/or other major cost drivers, such as office lease, technology, and marketing.




What is a good burn rate?
The general recommendation is for a startup business to have six to 12 months of expenses on hand. If the company has $100,000 in the bank, a good burn rate would fall between $16,667 (six months) and $8,333 (12 months).




How do you calculate the burn rate?
There are two kinds of burn rates: gross and net. The gross burn rate is simply the total amount of money spent each month. The net burn rate is the amount of money lost each month and takes into account any possible company revenue. It is calculated using the following formula: (Monthly Revenue - Cost of Goods Sold) - Gross Burn Rate = Net Burn Rate.




Is burn rate the same as expenses?
Yes, if you are calculating the gross burn rate. However, if you want the net burn rate, you must also factor in whatever revenue the company may be generating.


   The Bottom Line  

The burn rate is an important metric for any company, but it is particularly important for startups that are not yet generating any revenue. It tells managers and investors how fast the company is spending its capital. The burn rate is used to pinpoint when a company will begin going into debt, expressed as the company’s financial runway. If a burn rate is too high, a company has no choice but to lower its structural costs by reducing what it is spending on staff, housing, marketing, and/or technology.
What Is a Business?  

The term business refers to an organization or enterprising entity engaged in commercial, industrial, or professional activities. The purpose of a business is to organize some sort of economic production of goods or services. Businesses can be for-profit entities or non-profit organizations fulfilling a charitable mission or furthering a social cause. Businesses range in scale and scope from sole proprietorships to large, international corporations.



The term business also refers to the efforts and activities undertaken by individuals to produce and sell goods and services for profit.





Key Takeaways

A business is defined as an organization or enterprising entity engaged in commercial, industrial, or professional activities.Businesses can be for-profit entities or non-profit organizations.Business types range from limited liability companies to sole proprietorships, corporations, and partnerships.Some businesses run as small operations in a single industry while others are large operations that spread across many industries around the world.Apple and Walmart are two examples of well-known, successful businesses.












Alex Dos Diaz / Investopedia


   Understanding a Business  

The term business often refers to an entity that operates for commercial, industrial, or professional reasons. The concept begins with an idea and a name, and extensive market research may be required to determine how feasible it is to turn the idea into a business.



Businesses often require business plans before operations begin. A business plan is a formal document that outlines the company's goals and objectives and lists the strategies and plans to achieve these goals and objectives. Business plans are essential when you want to borrow capital to begin operations.



Determining the legal structure of the business is an important factor to consider, since business owners may need to secure permits and licenses and follow registration requirements to begin legal operations. Corporations are considered to be juridical persons in many countries, meaning that the business can own property, take on debt, and be sued in court.






A good name is often one of the most valuable assets of a business, so it's important that business owners choose their name wisely.



Most businesses operate to generate a profit, commonly called for-profit. However, some businesses that have a goal to advance a certain cause without profit are referred to as not-for-profit or nonprofit. These entities may operate as charities, arts, culture, educational, and recreational enterprises, political and advocacy groups, or social services organizations.



Business activities often include the sale and purchase of goods and services. Business activity can take place anywhere, whether that's in a physical storefront, online, or on the roadside. Anyone who conducts business activity with financial earnings must report this income to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



A company often defines its business by the industry in which it operates. For example, the real estate business, advertising business, or mattress production business are examples of industries. Business is a term often used to indicate transactions regarding an underlying product or service. For example, ExxonMobil conducts its business by providing oil.


   Types of Businesses  

There are many ways to organize a business, and there are various legal and tax structures that correspond with each. Businesses are commonly classified and generally structured as:



Sole Proprietorship: As the name suggests, a sole proprietorship is owned and operated by a single person. There is no legal separation between the business and the owner, which means the tax and legal liabilities of the business are the responsibility of the owner.
Partnership: A partnership is a business relationship between two or more people who together conduct business. Each partner contributes resources and money to the business and shares in the profits and losses of the business. The shared profits and losses are recorded on each partner's tax return.
Corporation: A corporation is a business in which a group of people acts as a single entity. Owners are commonly referred to as shareholders who exchange consideration for the corporation's common stock. Incorporating a business releases owners of the financial liability of business obligations. A corporation comes with unfavorable taxation rules for the owners of the business.
Limited Liability Company (LLC): This is a relatively new business structure and was first available in Wyoming in 1977 and in other states in the 1990s. A limited liability company combines the pass-through taxation benefits of a partnership with the limited liability benefits of a corporation.


   Business Sizes  
  Small Businesses  

Small owner-operated companies are called small businesses. Commonly managed by one person or a small group of people with less than 100 employees, these companies include family restaurants, home-based companies, clothing, books, and publishing companies, and small manufacturers. As of 2021, 33.2 million small businesses in the United States with 61.7 million employees were operating.



The Small Business Administration (SBA) uses the number of employees working at a company and its annual revenue to formally define a small business. For 229 industry sectors, from engineering and manufacturing to food service and real estate, the SBA sets sizing standards every five years.



Businesses that meet the standards of the SBA can qualify for loans, grants, and "small business set-asides," contracts where the federal government limits competition to help small businesses compete for and win federal contracts.


  Mid-Sized Enterprises  

There is no definitive specification in the U.S. to define a mid-sized or medium-sized company. However, when large U.S. cities such as Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Boston evaluate the landscape of operating businesses, a medium-sized company is defined as one with 100 to 249 employees or $10 million to less than $1 billion in annual gross sales.


  Large Businesses  

Large businesses commonly have 250 or more employees and garner more than $1 billion in gross receipts. They may issue corporate stock to finance operations as a publicly-traded company.



Large enterprises may be based in one country with international operations. They are often organized by departments, such as human resources, finance, marketing, sales, and research and development.



Unlike small and mid-sized enterprises, owned by a person or group of people, large organizations often separate their tax burden from their owners, who usually do not manage their companies but instead, an elected board of directors enacts most business decisions.


   Examples of Well-Known Businesses  
  Apple  

Apple (AAPL) is known for its innovative products, including its personal computers, smart devices, and music and video streaming services. Founded in 1977 by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, Apple became the first publicly-traded company whose value hit $1 trillion. The company's stock ended the trading day at about $172 on May 23, 2023. Its market cap was almost $2.7 billion.



The company employs more than two million people, including 80,000 individuals who work as direct Apple employees. The remaining jobs include suppliers, manufacturers, and others who are supported through the Apple store. The company reported net sales of $394.33 billion for the 12 months ending Sept. 24, 2022.



Apple's key to success lies in its family of products and its ability to innovate. The company focuses on design and quality—two key elements that were a key part of Jobs' corporate vision. The products that Apple creates and markets can be used under the same operating system, which allows consumers to sync them together, thus lowering corporate costs. Apple's ability to create, develop, and market new products and services also put it ahead of its competition.


  Walmart  

Walmart (WMT) is one of the world's largest retailers and operates as a multinational corporation. The company was founded in 1962 by Sam Walton in Arkansas. It has more than 10,500 locations in more than 20 different countries and employs over 2.1 million people.



The company went public in 1970 and trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Walmart stock traded above $148 with a market cap of $399.79 billion on May 23, 2023. The company earned $611.3 billion in revenue for the full year of 2022, which is an increase of 6.7% from the previous fiscal year.



Walmart's success can be attributed to several factors, including its brand name, pricing, diversification (especially with the addition of its online marketplace), efficient supply chain management, and its financial strength.




How Do You Start a Business?
There are several steps you need to hurdle to start a business. This includes conducting market research, developing a business plan, seeking capital or other forms of funding, choosing a location and business structure, picking the right name, submitting registration paperwork, obtaining tax documents (employer and taxpayer IDs), and pulling permits and licenses. It's also a good idea to set up a bank account with a financial institution to facilitate your everyday banking needs.




How Do You Launch an Online Business?
Starting an online business involves some of the same steps as a traditional business, with a few exceptions.You still need to do your market research and develop a business plan before anything else. Once that's done, choose a name and structure for your business, then file any paperwork to register your organization.Rather than finding a physical location, choose a platform and design your website. Before launching your business, you should find a way to build up your target market, whether that's through traditional marketing means or more creative ways like social media.




How Do You Come Up With a Business Name?
Your business name should fit the type of organization you plan to run and it should be catchy—something that people will gravitate toward and remember, not to mention associate with you as well as the products and services you plan to sell. Originality is key. And most importantly, it should be a name that isn't already in use by someone else. Go online and do a business name search to see if it's available or already registered.




How Do You Write a Business Plan?
Business plans are essential to running your business and can help you secure the funding you need to start your operations. You can choose between a traditional or lean plan.A traditional business plan has a lot of details, including a summary of the company, how it plans to succeed, market information, management, products and services, marketing, and sales projections.Lean formats are concise with very useful information such as partnership details, outlines of the business activities and customer relationships, cost structures, and revenue streams.Templates are available online or you can design your own business plan.




How Do You Get a Business Loan?
Necessary funding for a business often comes via a loan. A traditional lender or a government-backed loan, such as those offered through the Small Business Administration are two options. Prospective lenders want to see business details, especially for new start-ups. Make sure you have your business plan ready, including outlines of costs and revenue streams, and ensure you have a good credit score. You may need to put down some collateral to secure the loan if you're approved.


   The Bottom Line  

Businesses are the backbone of an economy. They provide products and services that can be purchased by individuals and other companies.



Businesses range in size from small to large and operate in many different industries. Business structures also vary from sole partnerships to major corporations that provide shareholder equity to their owners.



When starting a business, do your research and develop a business plan. This allows you to raise the money you need to start your operation.
What Are Business Activities?  

Business activities include any activity a business engages in for the primary purpose of making a profit. This is a general term that encompasses all the economic activities carried out by a company during the course of business. Business activities, including operating, investing, and financing activities, are ongoing and focused on creating value for shareholders.





Key Takeaways


Business activities are any events that are undertaken by a corporation for the purpose of earning a profit.
Operating activities relate directly to the business providing its goods to the market, including manufacturing, distributing, marketing, and selling; they provide most of the company's cash flow and hugely influence its profitability.
Investing activities relate to the long-term use of cash, such as buying or selling a property or piece of equipment, or gains and losses from investments in financial markets and operating subsidiaries.
Financing activities include sources of cash from investors or banks, and the uses of cash paid to shareholders, such as payment of dividends or stock repurchases, and the repayment of loans.













Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Business Activities  

There are three main types of business activities: operating, investing, and financing. The cash flows used and created by each of these activities are listed in the cash flow statement. The cash flow statement is meant to be a reconciliation of net income on an accrual basis to cash flow. Net income is taken from the bottom of the income statement, and the cash impact of balance sheet changes are identified to reconcile back to actual cash inflows and outflows.



Non-cash items previously deducted from net income are added back to determine cash flow; non-cash items previously added to net income are deducted to determine cash flows. The result is a report that gives the investor a summary of business activities within the company on a cash basis, segregated by the specific types of activity.


  Operating Business Activities  

The first section of the cash flow statement is cash flow from operating activities. These activities include many items from the income statement and the current portion of the balance sheet. The cash flow statement adds back certain non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization. Then changes in balance sheet line items, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, are either added or subtracted based on their previous impact on net income.



These line items impact the net income on the income statement but do not result in a movement of cash in or out of the company. If cash flows from operating business activities are negative, it means the company must be financing its operating activities through either investing activities or financing activities. Routinely negative operating cash flow is not common outside of nonprofits.


  Investing Business Activities  

Investing activities are in the second section of the statement of cash flows. These are business activities that are capitalized over more than one year. The purchase of long-term assets is recorded as a use of cash in this section. Likewise, the sale of real estate is shown as a source of cash. The line item "capital expenditures" is considered an investing activity and can be found in this section of the cash flow statement.


  Financing Business Activities  

The cash flow statement's final section includes financing activities. These include initial public offerings, secondary offerings, and debt financing. The section also lists the amount of cash being paid out for dividends, share repurchases, and interest. Any business activity related to financing and fundraising efforts is included in this section of the cash flow statement.




How Is the Cash Flow Statement Linked to Business Activities?
The cash flows used and created by each of the three main classifications of business activities—operating, investing, and financing—are listed in the cash flow statement. This financial statement is meant to be a reconciliation of net income on an accrual basis to cash flow.Net income is taken from the bottom of the income statement, and the cash impact of balance sheet changes are identified to reconcile back to actual cash inflows and outflows. Non-cash items previously deducted from or added to net income are added or deducted respectively to determine cash flows. The result is a report that gives the investor a summary of business activities within the company on a cash basis, segregated by the specific types of activity.




What Are Operating Business Activities?
Cash flow from operating business activities, usually the first section of the cash flow statement, includes many items from the income statement and the current portion of the balance sheet. The cash flow statement adds back certain non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization. Then changes in balance sheet line items, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, are either added or subtracted based on their previous impact on net income. These line items impact the net income on the income statement but do not result in a movement of cash in or out of the company. Routinely negative operating cash flow is not common outside of nonprofits.




What Are Investing Business Activities?
Investing business activities are those that are capitalized over more than one year and usually appear as the second section of the cash flow statement. The purchase of long-term assets is recorded as a use of cash in this section. Likewise, the sale of real estate is shown as a source of cash. The line item "capital expenditures" is considered an investing activity and can be found in this section of the cash flow statement.




What Are Financing Business Activities?
The cash flow statement's final section includes financing business activities. These include initial public offerings, secondary offerings, and debt financing. The section also lists the amount of cash being paid out for dividends, share repurchases, and interest. Any business activity related to financing and fundraising efforts is included in this section of the cash flow statement.
What is a Business Asset?  

A business asset is an item of value owned by a company. Business assets span many categories. They can be physical, tangible goods, such as vehicles, real estate, computers, office furniture, and other fixtures, or intangible items, such as intellectual property.





Key Takeaways

A business asset is a piece of property or equipment purchased exclusively or primarily for business use. They can also be intangible items, such as intellectual property.Business assets are itemized and valued on the balance sheet. They are listed at historical cost and in order of liquidity.Most business assets can be written off and either depreciated or expensed under section 179 in the year of purchase.Business assets are divided into two sections: current assets and non-current assets.﻿The value of business assets can be determined by an appraiser.


   How Business Assets Work  

Business assets are itemized and valued on the balance sheet, which can be found in the company's annual report. They are listed at historical cost, rather than market value, and appear on the balance sheet as items of ownership.



Most business assets can be written off (taken as an expense on the income statement) either as one large expense in the year of purchase, or by being depreciated, which is the process of spreading the cost of an asset over time. Some large, expensive assets may qualify to be expensed entirely in the year of purchase under section 179.



Assets are listed in order of liquidity, which is the ease in which they can be quickly bought or sold in the market without affecting their price.





Important

Business asset accounting is arguably one of the most important jobs of company management. A financial ratio called return on net assets (RONA) is used by investors to establish how effectively companies put their assets to work.


   Special Considerations  
  Current Assets Vs. Non-Current Assets  

Business assets are divided into two sections on the balance sheet: current assets and non-current assets. Current assets are business assets that will be turned into cash within one year, such as marketable securities, cash, inventory and receivables (debts owed to a company by its customers for goods or services that have been delivered or used but not yet paid for.) These assets may only have value for a short while, but they are still treated as business assets.



Non-current assets, or long-term assets, on the other hand, are less liquid assets that are expected to provide value for more than one year. In other words, the company does not intend on selling or otherwise converting these assets in the current year. Non-current assets are generally referred to as capitalized assets since the cost is capitalized and expensed over the life of the asset in a process called depreciation. This includes items such as property, buildings, and equipment.


  Depreciation and Amortization of Business Assets  

Tangible or physical business assets are depreciated, while intangible business assets are amortized, the process of spreading the cost of an intangible asset over the course of its useful life. When businesses amortize and depreciate expenses, they help tie an asset's costs to the revenues it generates. 



Depreciation is calculated by subtracting the asset's salvage value or resale value from its original cost. The difference between the cost of the asset and salvage value is divided by the useful life of the asset. If a truck has a useful life of 10 years, costs $100,000, and has a salvage value of $10,000, the depreciation expense is calculated as $100,000 minus $10,000 divided by 10, or $9,000 per year. In other words, instead of writing off the entire amount of the asset, capitalized business assets are only expensed by a fraction of the full cost each year.


  Valuing Business Assets  

The value of business assets vary and can change over time. Many current, tangible assets, such as vehicles, computers and machinery equipment tend to age and some may even become obsolete as newer, more efficient technologies are introduced.



When companies want to use an asset as collateral or to substantiate depreciation deductions they can get them valued by an appraiser.
What Is Business Banking?  

Business banking is a company's financial dealings with an institution that provides business loans, credit, savings accounts, and checking accounts, specifically designed for companies rather than for individuals.



Business banking occurs when a bank, or division of a bank, only deals with businesses. A bank that deals mainly with individuals is generally called a retail bank, while a bank that deals with capital markets is known as an investment bank. There are some banks that deal with both types of clients.





Key Takeaways

Business banking is a range of services provided by a bank to a business or corporation.Services offered under business banking include loans, credit, savings accounts, and checking accounts, all of which are tailored specifically to the business.Banks are able to offer business, retail, and investment banking services under one roof.The largest bank in the U.S. in terms of assets is JPMorgan Chase.


   Understanding Business Banking  

Business banking is also called commercial or corporate banking. Banks provide financial and advisory services to small and medium businesses as well as larger corporations. These services are tailored to the specific needs of each business. These services include deposit accounts and non-interest-bearing products, real estate loans, commercial loans, and credit card services. Banks may also offer asset management and securities underwriting to their corporate and business clients.



In the past, investment banks and retail/commercial banks were required to be separate entities under the Glass-Steagall Act—also known as the Banking Act of 1933. That changed in 1999 after parts of the act were repealed. Under the new rules, banks could offer business, retail, and investment banking services under one roof.



Demand for business banking is increasing in the United States, as the business sector continues to grow. Commercial banks have been declining since 2002, when there were 7,870 commercial banks, compared to 4,708 in 2018. This has primarily been due to mergers and acquisitions. The companies with the highest market share of corporate or business banking are Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase, and Bank of America, with JPMorgan Chase being the largest commercial bank in the U.S., with 2019 revenues of $142 billion. It's important to note these banks also operate as investment banks and retail banks, allowing them to be diversified in both clients and products offered.


   Services Offered by Business Banks  

Business banks provide a wide range of services to companies of all sizes. Aside from business checking and savings accounts, business banks offer financing options, cash management solutions, payroll services, and fraud protection.


  Bank Financing  

Bank financing is a primary source of capital for business expansion, acquisitions, and equipment purchases, or simply to meet growing operating expenses. Depending on a company's needs, business banks can offer fixed-term loans, short- and long-term loans, lines of credit, and asset-based loans. Banks provide equipment financing, either through fixed-loans or equipment leasing. Some banks cater specifically to certain industries such as agriculture, construction, and commercial real estate.


  Cash Management  

Also referred to as treasury management, cash management services help businesses achieve greater efficiency in managing their receivables, payables, cash on hand, or liquidity. Business banks set up specific processes for businesses that help streamline their cash management, resulting in lower costs and more cash on hand.



Banks provide businesses with access to Automated Clearing House (ACH) and electronic payment processing systems to accelerate money transfers. They also allow for the automatic movement of money from idle checking accounts into interest-bearing savings accounts, so the cash surplus is put to work while the business checking account has just enough for the day’s payments. Businesses have access to a customized online platform that links their cash management processes to their checking and savings accounts for a real-time view of their cash in action.


  Payroll Services  

Many banks are able to provide payroll services for small businesses. If your business is new or too small to incur the expense of a bookmaker, many banks provide software or specific services specifically geared towards payroll management. Aside from banks, there are many independent payroll service providers. It's worth comparing the costs and benefits of the two.


  Fraud Protection  

Fraud insurance is offered by banks to protect businesses from any sort of fraud that has occurred in their checking accounts. These can include problematic checks from vendors or employee fraud that can result from too many people having access to accounts, making transactions difficult to trace.
What Is a Business Continuity Plan (BCP)?   

A business continuity plan (BCP) is a system of prevention and recovery from potential threats to a company. The plan ensures that personnel and assets are protected and are able to function quickly in the event of a disaster.





Key Takeaways

Business continuity plans (BCPs) are prevention and recovery systems for potential threats, such as natural disasters or cyber-attacks.BCP is designed to protect personnel and assets and make sure they can function quickly when disaster strikes.BCPs should be tested to ensure there are no weaknesses, which can be identified and corrected.


   Understanding Business Continuity Plans (BCPs)  

BCP involves defining any and all risks that can affect the company's operations, making it an important part of the organization's risk management strategy. Risks may include natural disasters—fire, flood, or weather-related events—and cyber-attacks. Once the risks are identified, the plan should also include:



Determining how those risks will affect operationsImplementing safeguards and procedures to mitigate the risksTesting procedures to ensure they workReviewing the process to make sure that it is up to date



BCPs are an important part of any business. Threats and disruptions mean a loss of revenue and higher costs, which leads to a drop in profitability. And businesses can't rely on insurance alone because it doesn't cover all the costs and the customers who move to the competition. It is generally conceived in advance and involves input from key stakeholders and personnel.






Business impact analysis, recovery, organization, and training are all steps corporations need to follow when creating a Business Continuity Plan.


   Benefits of a Business Continuity Plan  

Businesses are prone to a host of disasters that vary in degree from minor to catastrophic. Business continuity planning is typically meant to help a company continue operating in the event of major disasters such as fires. BCPs are different from a disaster recovery plan, which focuses on the recovery of a company's IT system after a crisis.



Consider a finance company based in a major city. It may put a BCP in place by taking steps including backing up its computer and client files offsite. If something were to happen to the company's corporate office, its satellite offices would still have access to important information.



An important point to note is that BCP may not be as effective if a large portion of the population is affected, as in the case of a disease outbreak. Nonetheless, BCPs can improve risk management—preventing disruptions from spreading. They can also help mitigate downtime of networks or technology, saving the company money.


   How to Create a Business Continuity Plan  

There are several steps many companies must follow to develop a solid BCP. They include:



Business Impact Analysis: Here, the business will identify functions and related resources that are time-sensitive. (More on this below.)Recovery: In this portion, the business must identify and implement steps to recover critical business functions.Organization: A continuity team must be created. This team will devise a plan to manage the disruption.Training: The continuity team must be trained and tested. Members of the team should also complete exercises that go over the plan and strategies.



Companies may also find it useful to come up with a checklist that includes key details such as emergency contact information, a list of resources the continuity team may need, where backup data and other required information are housed or stored, and other important personnel.



Along with testing the continuity team, the company should also test the BCP itself. It should be tested several times to ensure it can be applied to many different risk scenarios. This will help identify any weaknesses in the plan which can then be identified and corrected.






In order for a business continuity plan to be successful, all employees—even those who aren't on the continuity team—must be aware of the plan.


   Business Continuity Impact Analysis  

An important part of developing a BCP is a business continuity impact analysis. It identifies the effects of disruption of business functions and processes. It also uses the information to make decisions about recovery priorities and strategies.



FEMA provides an operational and financial impact worksheet to help run a business continuity analysis. The worksheet should be completed by business function and process managers who are well acquainted with the business. These worksheets will summarize the following:



The impacts—both financial and operational—that stem from the loss of individual business functions and processIdentifying when the loss of a function or process would result in the identified business impacts



Completing the analysis can help companies identify and prioritize the processes that have the most impact on the business's financial and operational functions. The point at which they must be recovered is generally known as the “recovery time objective.”


   Business Continuity Plan vs. Disaster Recovery Plan  

BCPs and disaster recovery plans are similar in nature, the latter focuses on technology and information technology (IT) infrastructure. BCPs are more encompassing—focusing on the entire organization, such as customer service and supply chain. 



BCPs focus on reducing overall costs or losses, while disaster recovery plans look only at technology downtimes and related costs. Disaster recovery plans tend to involve only IT personnel—which create and manage the policy. However, BCPs tend to have more personnel trained on the potential processes. 


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Why Is Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Important?
Businesses are prone to a host of disasters that vary in degree from minor to catastrophic and business continuity plans (BCPs) are an important part of any business. BCP is typically meant to help a company continue operating in the event of threats and disruptions. This could result in a loss of revenue and higher costs, which leads to a drop in profitability. And businesses can't rely on insurance alone because it doesn't cover all the costs and the customers who move to the competition.




What Should a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Include?
Business continuity plans involve identifying any and all risks that can affect the company's operations. The plan should also determine how those risks will affect operations and implement safeguards and procedures to mitigate the risks. There should also be testing procedures to ensure these safeguards and procedures work. Finally, there should be a review process to make sure that the plan is up to date.




What Is Business Continuity Impact Analysis?
An important part of developing a BCP is a business continuity impact analysis which identifies the effects of disruption of business functions and processes. It also uses the information to make decisions about recovery priorities and strategies.FEMA provides an operational and financial impact worksheet to help run a business continuity analysis.These worksheets summarize the impacts—both financial and operational—that stem from the loss of individual business functions and processes. They also identify when the loss of a function or process would result in the identified business impacts.


   The Bottom Line  

Business continuity plans (BCPs) are created to help speed up the recovery of an organization filling a threat or disaster. The plan puts in place mechanisms and functions to allow personnel and assets to minimize company downtime. BCPs cover all organizational risks should a disaster happen, such as flood or fire.
What Is a Business Cycle?  

Business cycles are a type of fluctuation found in the aggregate economic activity of a nation -- a cycle that consists of expansions occurring at about the same time in many economic activities, followed by similarly general contractions (recessions). This sequence of changes is recurrent but not periodic.



The business cycle is an example of an economic cycle.





Key Takeaways

Business cycles are comprised of concerted cyclical upswings and downswings in the broad measures of economic activity—output, employment, income, and sales.The alternating phases of the business cycle are expansions and contractions (also called recessions).Recessions often start at the peak of the business cycle—when an expansion ends—and end at the trough of the business cycle, when the next expansion begins.The severity of a recession is measured by the three D’s: depth, diffusion, and duration, and the strength of an expansion by how pronounced, pervasive, and persistent it is.












Madelyn Goodnight / Investopedia


   Understanding the Business Cycle  

In essence, business cycles are marked by the alternation of the phases of expansion and contraction in aggregate economic activity, and the comovement among economic variables in each phase of the cycle. Aggregate economic activity is represented by not only real (i.e., inflation-adjusted) GDP—a measure of aggregate output—but also the aggregate measures of industrial production, employment, income, and sales, which are the key coincident economic indicators used for the official determination of U.S. business cycle peak and trough dates. 



A popular misconception is that a recession is defined simply as two consecutive quarters of decline in real GDP. Notably, the 1960–61 and 2001 recessions did not include two successive quarterly declines in real GDP. 



A recession is actually a specific sort of vicious cycle, with cascading declines in output, employment, income, and sales that feedback into a further drop in output, spreading rapidly from industry to industry and region to region. This domino effect is key to the diffusion of recessionary weakness across the economy, driving the comovement among these coincident economic indicators and the persistence of the recession.













On the flip side, a business cycle recovery begins when that recessionary vicious cycle reverses and becomes a virtuous cycle, with rising output triggering job gains, rising incomes, and increasing sales that feedback into a further rise in output. The recovery can persist and result in a sustained economic expansion only if it becomes self-feeding, which is ensured by this domino effect driving the diffusion of the revival across the economy. 













Of course, the stock market is not the economy. Therefore, the business cycle should not be confused with market cycles, which are measured using broad stock price indices.


   Measuring and Dating Business Cycles  

The severity of a recession is measured by the three D's: depth, diffusion, and duration. A recession's depth is determined by the magnitude of the peak-to-trough decline in the broad measures of output, employment, income, and sales. Its diffusion is measured by the extent of its spread across economic activities, industries, and geographical regions. Its duration is determined by the time interval between the peak and the trough.



In analogous fashion, the strength of an expansion is determined by how pronounced, pervasive, and persistent it turns out to be. These three P's correspond to the three D's of recession.



An expansion begins at the trough (or bottom) of a business cycle and continues until the next peak, while a recession starts at that peak and continues until the following trough.













The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) determines the business cycle chronology—the start and end dates of recessions and expansions for the United States. Accordingly, its Business Cycle Dating Committee considers a recession to be "a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months, normally visible in real GDP, real income, employment, industrial production, and wholesale-retail sales."



The Dating Committee typically determines recession start and end dates long after the fact. For instance, after the end of the 2007–09 recession, it "waited to make its decision until revisions in the National Income and Product Accounts [were] released on July 30 and Aug. 27, 2010," and announced the June 2009 recession end date on Sept. 20, 2010. Since the Committee's formation in 1979, the average lags in the announcement of recession start and end dates have been eight months for peaks and 15 months for troughs.



Prior to the formation of the Committee, from 1949 to 1978, recession start and end dates were determined on behalf of the NBER by Dr. Geoffrey H. Moore. He then served as the Committee's senior member from 1979 until his death in 2000. In 1996, Moore co-founded the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) which, based on the same approach used to determine the official U.S. business cycle chronology, determines business cycle chronologies for 21 other economies, including the G7 and the BRICS. In analyses requiring international recession dates as benchmarks, the most widely used procedure is to reference NBER dates for the U.S. and the ECRI dates for other economies.





11 months

The average length of recessions in the U.S. since World War II has been just around 11 months. The Great Recession was the longest one during this period, reaching 18 months.



U.S. expansions have typically lasted longer than U.S. recessions. From 1854–1899, they were almost equal in length, with recessions lasting 24 months and expansions lasting 27 months, on average. The average recession duration then fell to 18 months in the 1900–1945 period and to 11 months in the post-World War II period. Meanwhile, the average duration of expansions increased progressively, from 27 months in 1854–1899, to 32 months in 1900–1945, to 45 months in 1945–1982, and to 103 months in the 1982–2009 period. 



The depth of recessions has changed over time. They were typically very deep in the pre-World War II (WWII) period, going back to the 19th century. With cyclical volatility drastically downshifting after WWII, the depth of recessions decreased greatly. From the mid-1980s to the eve of the 2007–09 Great Recession—a period sometimes dubbed the great moderation—there was a further reduction in cyclical volatility. Also, since about the start of the great moderation, the average longevity of expansions appears to have roughly doubled.















Business Cycle Graph.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   The Varieties of Cyclical Experience  

The pre-WWII experience of most market-oriented economies included deep recessions and strong recoveries. However, the post-WWII recoveries from the devastation wreaked on many major economies by the war resulted in strong trend growth spanning decades. 



When trend growth is strong—as China has demonstrated in recent decades—it is difficult for cyclical downswings to take economic growth below zero, and into recession. For the same reason, Germany and Italy did not see their first post-WII recession until the mid-1960s, and thus experienced two-decade expansions. From the 1950s to the 1970s, France experienced a 15-year expansion, the U.K. saw a 22-year expansion, and Japan enjoyed a 19-year expansion. Canada saw a 23-year expansion from the late 1950s to the early 1980s. Even the U.S. enjoyed its longest expansion until that time in its history, spanning nearly nine years from early 1961 to the end of 1969. 



With business cycle recessions having apparently become less frequent, economists focused on growth cycles, which consist of alternating periods of above-trend and below-trend growth. But monitoring growth cycles requires a determination of the current trend, which is problematic for real-time economic cycle forecasting. As a result, Geoffrey H. Moore, at the ECRI, went on to a different cyclical concept—the growth rate cycle. 



Growth rate cycles—also called acceleration-deceleration cycles—are comprised of alternating periods of cyclical upswings and downswings in the growth rate of an economy, as measured by the growth rates of the same key coincident economic indicators used to determine business cycle peak and trough dates. In that sense, the growth rate cycle (GRC) is the first derivative of the classical business cycle (BC). But importantly, GRC analysis does not require trend estimation.



Using an approach analogous to that used to determine business cycle chronologies, the ECRI also determines GRC chronologies for 22 economies, including the U.S. Because GRCs are based on the inflection points in economic cycles, they are especially useful for investors, who are sensitive to the linkages between equity markets and economic cycles.






The researchers who pioneered classical business cycle analysis and growth cycle analysis turned to the growth rate cycle (GRC), which is comprised of alternating periods of cyclical upswings and downswings in economic growth, as measured by the growth rates of the same key coincident economic indicators used to determine business cycle peak and trough dates.


   Stock Prices and the Business Cycle  

In the post-WWII period, the biggest stock price downturns usually—but not always—occurred around business cycle downturns (i.e., recessions). Exceptions include the crash of 1987, which was part of a 35%-plus plunge in the S&P 500 that year, its 23%-plus pullback in 1966, and its 28%-plus drop in the first half of 1962. 



However, each of those major stock price declines occurred during GRC downturns. Indeed, while stock prices generally see major downturns around business cycle recessions and upturns around business cycle recoveries, a better one-to-one relationship existed between stock price downturns and GRC downturns—and between stock price upturns and GRC upturns—in the post-WWII period, in the decades leading up to the Great Recession. 



Following the Great Recession of 2007–09—while full-fledged stock price downturns, featuring over-20% declines in the major averages, did not occur until the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic—smaller 10%–20% "corrections" clustered around the four intervening GRC downturns, from May 2010 to May 2011, March 2012 to Jan. 2013, March to Aug. 2014, and April 2014 to May 2016. The 20% plunge in the S&P 500 in late 2018 also occurred within the fifth GRC downturn that began in April 2017 and culminated in the 2020 recession.



In essence, the prospect of recession usually, but not always, brings about a major stock price downturn. But the prospect of an economic slowdown—and specifically, a GRC downturn—can also trigger smaller corrections and, on occasion, much larger downdrafts in stock prices. 



For investors, therefore, it is vital to be on the lookout for not only business cycle recessions, but also the economic slowdowns designated as GRC downturns. Those interested in learning more about business cycles, stock prices, and other financial concepts may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.




What Are the Stages of the Business Cycle?
In general, the business cycle consists of four distinct phases: expansion; peak; contraction; and trough.




How Long Does the Business Cycle Last?
According to U.S. government research, the business cycle in America takes, on average, around 5 1/2 years (since WWII).




What Was the Longest Economic Expansion?
The 2009-2020 expansion was the longest on record at 128 months.
What Is a Business Development Company (BDC)?  

A business development company (BDC) is an organization that invests in small- and medium-sized companies as well as distressed companies. A BDC helps these firms grow in the initial stages of their development. With distressed businesses, the BDC helps the companies regain sound financial footing.



Similar to closed-end investment funds, many BDCs are public companies whose shares trade on major stock exchanges, such as the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), Nasdaq, and others. As investments, they are high-risk but offer higher rewards.





Key Takeaways

A business development company (BDC) is a type of closed-end fund that makes investments in developing and financially distressed firms. Many BDCs are publicly traded and are open to retail investors.BDCs offer investors high dividend yields and some capital appreciation potential.BDCs' heavy use of leverage and small or distressed company targeting makes them relatively high-risk investments.


   Understanding Business Development Companies (BDCs)  

The U.S. Congress created business development companies in 1980 to fuel job growth and assist emerging U.S. businesses in raising funds. BDCs are closely involved in mentoring and developing the companies in their portfolios because it is in a BDC's best interest to help them become successful.



BDCs invest in private companies and small public firms that have low trading volumes or are in financial distress. They raise capital through initial public offerings or by issuing corporate bonds and equities or forms of hybrid investment instruments to investors.



The raised capital is then used to provide funding for the struggling companies. BDCs can use different financial instruments to provide capital, but in general, most issue loans or purchase stocks or convertible securities from the companies.


  Qualifying as a BDC  

To qualify as a BDC, a company must be registered in compliance with Section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, it must be a domestic company whose class of securities is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



The BDC must invest at least 70% of its assets in private or public U.S. firms with market values of less than US$250 million. These companies are often young businesses seeking financing or firms suffering or emerging from financial difficulties. Also, the BDC must provide managerial assistance to the companies in its portfolio.






Business development companies avoid corporate income taxes by distributing at least 90% of their income to shareholders.


   BDCs vs. Venture Capital  

If BDCs sound similar to venture capital funds, they are. However, there are some key differences. One relates to the nature of the investors each seeks. Venture capital funds are primarily available to large institutions and wealthy individuals through private placements. In contrast, BDCs allow smaller, nonaccredited investors to invest in them, and by extension, in small growth companies.



Venture capital funds keep a limited number of investors and must meet specific asset-related tests to avoid being classified as regulated investment companies. On the other hand, BDC shares are typically traded on stock exchanges and are constantly available as investments for the public.



BDCs that decline to list on an exchange must follow the same regulations as listed BDCs. However, less stringent provisions for the amount of borrowing, related-party transactions, and equity-based compensation make the BDC an appealing form of incorporation to venture capitalists who were previously unwilling to assume the burdensome regulation of an investment company.


   Advantages and Disavantages of BDC Investment  



Pros

High dividend yields
Open to retail investors
Liquid
Diversity



Cons

High-risk
Sensitive to interest-rate spikes
Illiquid/opaque holdings
Can magnify losses
Dividends taxed as income





  Advantages Explained  

High dividend yields: Because BDCs are regulated investment companies (RICs), they must distribute over 90% of their profits to shareholders. That RIC status means they don't pay corporate income tax on profits before distributing them to shareholders. The result is above-average dividend yields.
Open to retail investors: BDCs expose investors to debt and equity investments in predominantly private companies—typically closed to retail investors.
Liquid: BDCs trade on public exchanges, giving them a fair amount of liquidity and transparency.
Diversity: BDC investments may diversify an investor's portfolio with securities that can display substantially different returns from stocks and bonds.


  Disadvantages Explained  

High risk: Although a BDC itself is liquid, many of its holdings are not. The portfolio holdings are primarily private firms or small, thinly-traded public companies. BDCs invest aggressively in companies that offer both income now and capital appreciation later; as such, they register somewhat high on the risk scale.
Sensitive to interest rate spikes: A rise in interest rates—making it more expensive to borrow funds—can impede a BDC's profit margins.
Illiquid or opaque holdings: Because most BDC holdings are typically invested in illiquid securities, a BDC's portfolio has subjective fair-value estimates and may experience sudden and quick losses. In addition, the BDC-invested target companies typically have no track records or troubling ones.
Magnify losses: Losses can be magnified because BDCs often employ leverage—that is, they borrow the money they invest or loan to their target companies. Leverage can improve the rate of return on investment (ROI), but it can also cause cash-flow problems if the leveraged asset declines in value.
Dividends taxed as income: Dividends from BDCs are taxed as income because they don't meet the criteria for qualified dividends.


   How to Invest in a BDC  

A business development company is a publicly traded firm with stocks trading on public exchanges, so you can purchase stocks through your broker.



Some BDC stocks are included in exchange-traded funds and mutual funds. For example, the VanEck BDC Income ETF is offered through many brokers and is available to retail investors.


   How Does a BDC Make Money?  

Business development companies can make money in several different ways. One of the most common is to purchase equity from the companies they provide funding for and sell it when it appreciates.



If a BDC buys convertible bonds from a company it has invested in, it can receive yields from the bonds and later convert them to equity. Once converted, the equity can be held for appreciation or sold for capital gains.



Lending is another way BDCs make money. Similar to a consumer borrowing from a bank, a BDC charges interest on the loans it makes.




What Are the Benefits of a BDC?
Business development companies provide investors with higher yields and returns.




How Does a BDC Make Money?
BDCs make money by lending capital to and purchasing equity or bonds from the companies in their portfolio.




What Is BDC Lending?
Business development company lending is when a BDC lends capital to a company it has invested in.


   The Bottom Line  

Business development companies are firms that exist to assist smaller or financially struggling businesses. BDCs use fundraising techniques to raise capital for themselves from investors and then use that money to invest in these smaller businesses.



They were created by Congress in 1980 to help small businesses grow while attempting to shield them from predatory tactics sometimes used to take over struggling businesses.



BDCs generally have higher returns than mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, but with these returns comes an equal increase in risk and volatility. If you're considering investing in BDCs, it helps to talk to a professional financial advisor to determine if they meet your investing goals and risk tolerance.
What Is Business Economics?  

Business economics is a field of applied economics that studies the financial, organizational, market-related, and environmental issues faced by corporations.



Business economics assesses certain factors impacting corporations—business organization, management, expansion, and strategy—using economic theory and quantitative methods. Research topics in the field of business economics might include how and why corporations expand, the impact of entrepreneurs, interactions among corporations, and the role of governments in regulation.





Key Takeaways

Business economics is a field of applied economics that studies the financial, organizational, market-related, and environmental issues faced by corporations. Business economics encompasses subjects such as the concept of scarcity, product factors, distribution, and consumption.Managerial economics is one important offshoot of business economics.The National Association for Business Economics (NABE) is the professional association for business economists in the U.S.


   Understanding Business Economics  

In the broadest sense, economics refers to the study of the components and functions of a particular marketplace or economy—such as supply and demand—and the impact of the concept of scarcity. Within economics, production factors, distribution methods, and consumption are important subjects of study. Business economics focuses on the elements and factors within business operations and how they relate to the economy as a whole.



The field of business economics addresses economic principles, strategies, standard business practices, the acquisition of necessary capital, profit generation, the efficiency of production, and overall management strategy. Business economics also includes the study of external economic factors and their influence on business decisions such as a change in industry regulation or a sudden price shift in raw materials.


   Types of Business Economics  
  Managerial Economics  

Managerial economics is a field of study within business economics that focuses on the microeconomic factors that influence the decision-making processes with an organization. The strategic decisions of corporations result in either a profit or a loss for the company. Managerial economic principles are intended to influence and guide corporate strategy and decisions toward the best outcomes for a company.



The study of managerial economics is applied to both the public and private sectors, as well as to for-profit and not-for-profit organizations. All of these types of organizations must effectively assess the economic climate in order to remain solvent (because all organizations require a source of funding to continue operations). Across all sectors of the business world, the main goal of managerial economics is to use all available resources within an organization, specifically maximizing production while at the same time minimizing any waste.


  Business Economics for Nonprofit Organizations  

While nonprofit organizations and for-profit organizations may have different goals, both of these types of organizations perform similar business functions and require similar expertise. In addition, they must also strive to limit waste and maximize the overall usefulness of their available resources in order to maintain their viability as enterprises.



Both nonprofit organizations and for-profit organizations have to maintain the necessary capital to continue working within the economy; this requires them to use many of the same principles. For example, all types of organizations engage in advertising, community, or customer support and need leadership to make appropriate strategic decisions.


   Special Considerations  

There are various organizations associated with the field of business economics. In the U.S., the National Association for Business Economics (NABE) is the professional association for business economists. NABE is the largest international association of applied economists, strategists, academics, and policy-makers committed to the application of economics; the mission of the organization is "to provide leadership in the use and understanding of economics."



In the United Kingdom, the equivalent organization is the Society of Business Economists (SPE). SPE is the leading organization serving professional economists in the U.K. and Europe.
What Is a Business Ecosystem?  

A business ecosystem is the network of organizations—including suppliers, distributors, customers, competitors, government agencies, and so on—involved in the delivery of a specific product or service through both competition and cooperation. The idea is that each entity in the ecosystem affects and is affected by the others, creating a constantly evolving relationship in which each entity must be flexible and adaptable in order to survive as in a biological ecosystem.





Key Takeaways

A business ecosystem is the network of organizations—including suppliers, distributors, customers, competitors, government agencies, and so on—involved in the delivery of a specific product or service through both competition and cooperation.The idea is that each entity in the ecosystem affects and is affected by the others, creating a constantly evolving relationship in which each entity must be flexible and adaptable in order to survive, as in a biological ecosystem.Ecosystems create strong barriers to entry for new competition as the ecosystem already consists of the players that allow it to function.The theory of business ecosystems was developed by business strategist James Moore in 1993.


   Understanding a Business Ecosystem  

In the 1930s, British botanist Arthur Tansley introduced the term ecosystem to describe a community of organisms interacting with each other and their environments: air, water, earth, etc. In order to thrive, these organisms compete and collaborate with each other on available resources, co-evolve, and jointly adapt to external disruptions.



Business strategist James Moore adopted this biological concept in his 1993 Harvard Business Review article "Predators and Prey: A New Ecology of Competition", in which he paralleled companies operating in the increasingly interconnected world of commerce to a community of organisms adapting and evolving to survive. Moore suggested that a company be viewed not as a single firm in an industry, but as a member of a business ecosystem with participants spanning across multiple industries.






Like natural ecosystems, the firms involved in business ecosystems compete for survival with adaptation and sometimes extinction.



Advances in technology and increasing globalization have changed ideas about the best ways to do business, and the idea of a business ecosystem is thought to help companies understand how to thrive in this rapidly changing environment. Moore defined the business ecosystem as follows:



An economic community supported by a foundation of interacting organizations and individuals—the organisms of the business world. The economic community produces goods and services of value to customers, who are themselves members of the ecosystem. The member organisms also include suppliers, lead producers, competitors, and other stakeholders. Over time, they co-evolve their capabilities and roles and tend to align themselves with the directions set by one or more central companies. Those companies holding leadership roles may change over time, but the function of ecosystem leader is valued by the community because it enables members to move toward shared visions to align their investments and to find mutually supportive roles.﻿﻿



In effect, the business ecosystem consists of a network of interlinked companies that dynamically interact with each other through competition and cooperation to grow sales and survive. An ecosystem includes suppliers, distributors, consumers, government, processes, products, and competitors. When an ecosystem thrives, it means that the participants have developed patterns of behavior that streamline the flow of ideas, talent, and capital throughout the system.


   Ecosystems and Competition  

Ecosystems create strong barriers to entry for new competition, as potential entrants not only have to duplicate or better the core product, but they must also compete against the entire system of independent complementing businesses and suppliers that form the network.



Being a part of a business ecosystem provides mechanisms to leverage technology, achieve excellence in research and business competence, and compete effectively against other companies. Some other goals of a business ecosystem include:



Driving new collaborations to address rising social and environmental challengesHarnessing creativity and innovation to lower the cost of production or allow members to reach new customersAccelerating the learning process to effectively collaborate and share insights, skills, expertise, and knowledgeCreating new ways to address fundamental human needs and desires



It is for these reasons that in today's rapidly changing business world, a company creates its own ecosystem or comes up with a way to join an existing ecosystem by providing an advantage that is currently lacking in that ecosystem.
What Is Business Ethics?  

Business ethics studies appropriate business policies and practices regarding potentially controversial subjects, including corporate governance, insider trading, bribery, discrimination, corporate social responsibility, fiduciary responsibilities, and much more. The law often guides business ethics, but at other times business ethics provide a basic guideline that businesses can follow to gain public approval.





Key Takeaways

Business ethics refers to implementing appropriate business policies and practices with regard to arguably controversial subjects.Some issues that come up in a discussion of ethics include corporate governance, insider trading, bribery, discrimination, social responsibility, and fiduciary responsibilities. The law usually sets the tone for business ethics, providing a basic guideline that businesses can choose to follow to gain public approval.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   Understanding Business Ethics  

Business ethics ensure that a certain basic level of trust exists between consumers and various forms of market participants with businesses. For example, a portfolio manager must give the same consideration to the portfolios of family members and small individual investors as they do to wealthier clients. These kinds of practices ensure the public receives fair treatment.



The concept of business ethics began in the 1960s as corporations became more aware of a rising consumer-based society that showed concerns regarding the environment, social causes, and corporate responsibility. The increased focus on "social issues" was a hallmark of the decade.



Since that time, the concept of business ethics has evolved. Business ethics goes beyond just a moral code of right and wrong; it attempts to reconcile what companies must do legally vs. maintaining a competitive advantage over other businesses. Firms display business ethics in several ways.






Business ethics ensure a certain level of trust between consumers and corporations, guaranteeing the public fair and equal treatment.


   Principles of Business Ethics  

It's essential to understand the underlying principles that drive desired ethical behavior and how a lack of these moral principles contributes to the downfall of many otherwise intelligent, talented people and the businesses they represent.



There are generally 12 business ethics principles:



Leadership: The conscious effort to adopt, integrate, and emulate the other 11 principles to guide decisions and behavior in all aspects of professional and personal life.
Accountability: Holding yourself and others responsible for their actions. Commitment to following ethical practices and ensuring others follow ethics guidelines.
Integrity: Incorporates other principles—honesty, trustworthiness, and reliability. Someone with integrity consistently does the right thing and strives to hold themselves to a higher standard.
Respect for others: To foster ethical behavior and environments in the workplace, respecting others is a critical component. Everyone deserves dignity, privacy, equality, opportunity, compassion, and empathy.
Honesty: Truth in all matters is key to fostering an ethical climate. Partial truths, omissions, and under or overstating don't help a business improve its performance. Bad news should be communicated and received in the same manner as good news so that solutions can be developed.
Respect for laws: Ethical leadership should include enforcing all local, state, and federal laws. If there is a legal grey area, leaders should err on the side of legality rather than exploiting a gap.
Responsibility: Promote ownership within an organization, allow employees to be responsible for their work, and be accountable for yours.
Transparency: Stakeholders are people with an interest in a business, such as shareholders, employees, the community a firm operates in, and the family members of the employees. Without divulging trade secrets, companies should ensure information about their financials, price changes, hiring and firing practices, wages and salaries, and promotions are available to those interested in the business's success.
Compassion: Employees, the community surrounding a business, business partners, and customers should all be treated with concern for their well-being.
Fairness: Everyone should have the same opportunities and be treated the same. If a practice or behavior would make you feel uncomfortable or place personal or corporate benefit in front of equality, common courtesy, and respect, it is likely not fair.
Loyalty: Leadership should demonstrate confidentially and commitment to their employees and the company. Inspiring loyalty in employees and management ensures that they are committed to best practices.
Environmental concern: In a world where resources are limited, ecosystems have been damaged by past practices, and the climate is changing, it is of utmost importance to be aware of and concerned about the environmental impacts a business has. All employees should be encouraged to discover and report solutions for practices that can add to damages already done.


   Why Is Business Ethics Important?  

There are several reasons business ethics are essential for success in modern business. Most importantly, defined ethics programs establish a code of conduct that drives employee behavior—from executives to middle management to the newest and youngest employees. When all employees make ethical decisions, the company establishes a reputation for ethical behavior. Its reputation grows, and it begins to experience the benefits a moral establishment reaps:



Brand recognition and growthIncreased ability to negotiateIncreased trust in products and servicesCustomer retention and growthAttracts talentAttracts investors



When combined, all these factors affect a business' revenues. Those that fail set ethical standards and enforce them are doomed to eventually find themselves alongside Enron, Arthur Andersen, Wells Fargo, Lehman Brothers, Bernie Madoff, and many others.


   Types of Business Ethics  

There are several theories regarding business ethics, and many different types can be found, but what makes a business stand out are its corporate social responsibility practices, transparency and trustworthiness, fairness, and technological practices.


  Corporate Social Responsibility  

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is the concept of meeting the needs of stakeholders while accounting for the impact meeting those needs has on employees, the environment, society, and the community in which the business operates. Of course, finances and profits are important, but they should be secondary to the welfare of society, customers, and employees—because studies have concluded that corporate governance and ethical practices increase financial performance.






Businesses should hold themselves accountable and responsible for their environmental, philanthropic, ethical, and economic impacts.


  Transparency and Trustworthiness  

It's essential for companies to ensure they are reporting their financial performance in a way that is transparent. This not only applies to required financial reports but all reports in general. For example, many corporations publish annual reports to their shareholders.



Most of these reports outline not only the submitted reports to regulators, but how and why decisions were made, if goals were met, and factors that influenced performance. CEOs write summaries of the company's annual performance and give their outlooks.



Press releases are another way companies can be transparent. Events important to investors and customers should be published, regardless of whether it is good or bad news.


  Technological Practices and Ethics  

The growing use of technology of all forms in business operations inherently comes with a need for a business to ensure the technology and information it gathers is being used ethically. Additionally, it should ensure that the technology is secured to the utmost of its ability, especially as many businesses store customer information and collect data that those with nefarious intentions can use.


  Fairness  

A workplace should be inclusive, diverse, and fair for all employees regardless of race, religion, beliefs, age, or identity. A fair work environment is where everyone can grow, be promoted, and become successful in their own way.


   How to Implement Good Business Ethics  

Fostering an environment of ethical behavior and decision-making takes time and effort—it always starts at the top. Most companies need to create a code of conduct/ethics, guiding principles, reporting procedures, and training programs to enforce ethical behavior.



Once conduct is defined and programs implemented, continuous communication with employees becomes vital. Leaders should constantly encourage employees to report concern behavior—additionally, there should be assurances that if whistle-blowers will not face adversarial actions.






A pipeline for anonymous reporting can help businesses identify questionable practices and reassure employees that they will not face any consequences for reporting an issue.


   Monitoring and Reporting Unethical Behavior  

When preventing unethical behavior and repairing its adverse side effects, companies often look to managers and employees to report any incidences they observe or experience. However, barriers within the company culture (such as fear of retaliation for reporting misconduct) can prevent this from happening.



Published by the Ethics & Compliance Initiative (ECI), the Global Business Ethics Survey of 2021 surveyed over 14,000 employees in 10 countries about different types of misconduct they observed in the workplace. 49% of the employees surveyed said they had observed misconduct and 22% said they had observed behavior they would categorize as abusive. 86% of employees said they reported the misconduct they observed. When questioned if they had experienced retaliation for reporting, 79% said they had been retaliated against.



Indeed, fear of retaliation is one of the primary reasons employees cite for not reporting unethical behavior in the workplace. ECI says companies should work toward improving their corporate culture by reinforcing the idea that reporting suspected misconduct is beneficial to the company. Additionally, they should acknowledge and reward the employee's courage in making the report.




What Is Business Ethics?
Business ethics concerns ethical dilemmas or controversial issues faced by a company. Often, business ethics involve a system of practices and procedures that help build trust with the consumer. On one level, some business ethics are embedded in the law, such as minimum wages, insider trading restrictions, and environmental regulations. On another, business ethics can be influenced by management behavior, with wide-ranging effects across the company.




What Are Business Ethics and Example?
Business ethics guide executives, managers, and employees in their daily actions and decision-making. For example, consider a company that has decided to dump chemical waste that it cannot afford to dispose of properly on a vacant lot it has purchased in the local community. This action has legal, environmental, and social repercussions that can damage a company beyond repair.




What Are the 12 Ethical Principles?
Business ethics is an evolving topic. Generally, there are about 12 ethical principles: honesty, fairness, leadership, integrity, compassion, respect, responsibility, loyalty, law-abiding, transparency, and environmental concerns.


   The Bottom Line  

Business ethics concerns employees, customers, society, the environment, shareholders, and stakeholders. Therefore, every business should develop ethical models and practices that guide employees in their actions and ensure they prioritize the interests and welfare of those the company serves.



Doing so not only increases revenues and profits, it creates a positive work environment and builds trust with consumers and business partners.
What Is a Business Exit Strategy?  

A business exit strategy is an entrepreneur's strategic plan to sell his or her ownership in a company to investors or another company. An exit strategy gives a business owner a way to reduce or liquidate his stake in a business and, if the business is successful, make a substantial profit. If the business is not successful, an exit strategy (or "exit plan") enables the entrepreneur to limit losses. An exit strategy may also be used by an investor such as a venture capitalist in order to plan for a cash-out of an investment.



Business exit strategies should not be confused with trading exit strategies used in securities markets.





Key Takeaways

A business exit strategy is a plan that a founder or owner of a business makes to sell their company, or share in a company, to other investors or other firms.Initial public offerings (IPOs), strategic acquisitions, and management buyouts are among the more common exit strategies an owner might pursue.If the business is making money, an exit strategy lets the owner of the business cut their stake or completely get out of the business while making a profit.If the business is struggling, implementing an exit strategy or "exit plan" can allow the entrepreneur to limit losses.


   Understanding Business Exit Strategy  

Ideally, an entrepreneur will develop an exit strategy in their initial business plan before actually going into business. The choice of exit plan can influence business development decisions. Common types of exit strategies include initial public offerings (IPO), strategic acquisitions, and management buyouts (MBO). Which exit strategy an entrepreneur chooses depends on many factors, such as how much control or involvement (if any) they want to retain in the business, whether they want the company to be run in the same way after their departure, or whether they're willing to see it shift, provided they are paid well to sign off.



A strategic acquisition, for example, will relieve the founder of his or her ownership responsibilities, but will also mean the founder is giving up control. IPOs are often seen as the holy grail of exit strategies since they often bring along the greatest prestige and highest payoff. On the other hand, bankruptcy is seen as the least desirable way to exit a business.



A key aspect of an exit strategy is business valuation, and there are specialists that can help business owners (and buyers) examine a company's financials to determine a fair value. There are also transition managers whose role is to assist sellers with their business exit strategies.


   Business Exit Strategy and Liquidity  

Different business exit strategies also offer business owners different levels of liquidity. Selling ownership through a strategic acquisition, for example, can offer the greatest amount of liquidity in the shortest time frame, depending on how the acquisition is structured. The appeal of a given exit strategy will depend on market conditions, as well; for example, an IPO may not be the best exit strategy during a recession, and a management buyout may not be attractive to a buyer when interest rates are high.






While an IPO will almost always be a lucrative prospect for company founders and seed investors, these shares can be extremely volatile and risky for ordinary investors who will be buying their shares from the early investors.


   Business Exit Strategy: Which Is Best?  

The best type of exit strategy also depends on business type and size. A partner in a medical office might benefit by selling to one of the other existing partners, while a sole proprietor’s ideal exit strategy might simply be to make as much money as possible, then close down the business. If the company has multiple founders, or if there are substantial shareholders in addition to the founders, these other parties’ interests must be factored into the choice of an exit strategy as well.
What Are Business Expenses?  

Business expenses are costs incurred in the ordinary course of business. Every business, from the smallest corner store to the largest corporation, tracks these expenses throughout the year for tax purposes. Business expenses are subtracted from revenue to arrive at a company’s taxable net income.



Business expenses are also referred to as deductions. These are generally divided into two major categories, capital expenditures and operational expenditures.





Key Takeaways

Business expenses are deductions from taxable income.The total of business expenses is subtracted from revenue to arrive at the business' total amount of taxable income.The IRS defines allowable business deductions as costs that are "ordinary and necessary" for the industry in which the business operates.The main deductible categories are direct expenses, indirect expenses, and interest on debt.


   Understanding Business Expenses  

Section 162 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) details the guidelines for business expenses. The IRC allows businesses to report any expense that may be ordinary and necessary.



Business expenses need not be required to be considered ordinary or necessary. Generally, ordinary means that the expense is common in the industry and most business owners in the same line of business or trade would normally expense these things. Necessary means that the expenses are appropriate and a business owner might not be able to manage without making the expenditure.



An expense that meets the definition of ordinary and necessary for business purposes can be expensed and, therefore, is tax-deductible.



Some business expenses may be fully deductible while others are only partially deductible. Below are some examples of fully deductible expenses:



Advertising and marketing expenses
Credit card processing fees
Education and training expenses for employees
Certain legal fees
License and regulatory fees
Wages paid to contract employees
Employee benefits programs
Equipment rentals
Insurance costs
Interest paid
Office expenses and supplies
Maintenance and repair costs
Office lease costs
Utility expenses


   Income Statement Reporting  

The income statement is the primary financial statement used by businesses to record their expenses and determine their taxes. Most have three categories of expenses, broken down by direct costs, indirect costs, and interest.


  Direct Costs  

The value of inventory on hand at the beginning and the end of each tax year is used in determining the cost of goods sold (COGS), which is a large direct expense for many companies.



COGS is deducted from an entity’s total revenue to determine gross profit for the year. Any expenses included in COGS cannot be deducted again. Expenses that are included in calculating COGS may include direct labor costs, factory overhead, storage, costs of products, and costs of raw materials.


  Indirect Costs  

Indirect costs are subtracted from gross profit to identify operating profit. Typical indirect costs include executive compensation, general expenses, depreciation, and marketing costs.



Subtracting indirect costs from gross profit results in operating profit, which is also known as earnings before interest and tax.


  Depreciation  

Expensing of business assets is usually done by depreciation. Depreciation is a tax-deductible expense on the income statement and is classified as an indirect expense.



Depreciation expenses can be deducted over a number of years. They typically include the costs of computers, furniture, property, equipment, trucks, and more.


  Gifts, Meals, and Entertainment Costs  

The IRS places limits on costs associated with gifts, meals, and entertainment. For example, you can usually deduct 50% of the cost of providing meals to employees, although certain meals may be fully deducted.


  Interest Expenses  

The last section of the income statement involves expenses for interest and tax. Interest is the last expense a company subtracts to arrive at its taxable income, sometimes called adjusted taxable income.


   Personal Expenses  

In some cases, expenses incurred by a business owner may be both personal and business-related. For example, a small business owner might use the same car for personal purposes and business-related activities.



In this case, the portion of miles used for business purposes can be deducted. In the case of home offices, costs associated with the portion of the home that is exclusively used for business are generally deductible.


   Non-Deductible Expenses  

Some expenses incurred by a business are not reportable. These expenses include bribes, lobbying costs, penalties, fines, and contributions made to political parties or candidates.




What Is an 'Ordinary and Necessary' Business Expense?
This is IRS-speak for the type of expense that a business can properly deduct. Generally, "ordinary" means normal and widespread in the industry. "Necessary" means appropriate and useful, while falling short of absolutely essential.




What Is Not a Deductible Business Expense?
Any expense that has a personal benefit rather than a business benefit is non-deductible.Granted, this can be a gray area. If you go to Los Angeles for business purposes, and spend a day at Disneyland while there, your tickets to the park are not deductible. Your flight to and from L.A. should be deductible, as long as you're ready to prove that you spent most of your time there doing business.




Can I Deduct My Car If I Use It for My LLC?
If you use a car entirely for business purposes, you can deduct the related expenses.If you have a car that you use for both business and personal trips, only the costs related to its business use are deductible. That means keeping receipts and a careful log of mileage and other costs associated with the vehicle.


   The Bottom Line  

The key to business tax reporting is "ordinary and necessary" expenses. That's the phrase the IRS uses to describe the costs of doing business. Those costs are deducted from income in order to arrive at taxable income for the period being reported.
What Is Commercial Insurance?  

Commercial insurance, also known as business insurance,  protects businesses from losses due to unexpected events during normal business operations, such as lawsuits, natural disasters, or accidents. There are many types of commercial insurance for businesses, including coverage for property damage, legal liability, and employee-related risks, among others.



Companies evaluate their commercial insurance needs based on potential risks, which can vary depending on the type of business and its environment. Learn about the types of business insurance and what they provide.





Key Takeaways

Commercial insurance refers to insurance coverage intended for businesses instead of individuals.Commercial insurance is also called business insurance.Business insurance covers losses related to unexpected events like lawsuits, accidents, or natural disasters, among others.Different types of commercial insurance products include general liability insurance, professional liability, property insurance, and home-based business insurance.Product liability, vehicle insurance, and business interruption insurance are also types of commercial insurance.


   How Commercial Insurance Works  

Small business owners must carefully consider and evaluate their risks because they may have personal financial exposure in the event of a loss. Commercial insurance protects business owners from potential losses due to unexpected events that they couldn’t afford to cover on their own. This allows businesses to operate when it might otherwise be too risky to do so.



Work with a reputable and licensed insurance broker if you need business insurance. You can get a list of licensed agents in your state through your state's department of insurance or the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.





Note

Commercial policies are different from personal lines insurance because they protect a business, not an individual.


   Types of Commercial Insurance  

Federal regulations require certain types of insurance such as workers' compensation. Additionally, certain states may require certain types of businesses to have additional coverage types. In most situations, it's advisable for business to protect themselves by having coverages that aren't legally required. Here are seven common types of business insurance:


  Commercial General Liability Insurance  

Commercial general liability insurance is a type of policy for all businesses. It's considered comprehensive insurance, although it does not protect against all risks. General liability provides coverage for bodily injury, property damage, medical expenses, libel, slander, defending lawsuits, and settlement bonds or judgments.


  Professional Liability Insurance  

Unlike general liability insurance, which is for any business, professional liability insurance (PLI) is designed for businesses that provide services. Coverage is for loss caused by the service provided. It protects against expenses related to malpractice, negligence, or errors.


  Commercial Property Insurance  

Property insurance is designed for businesses with significant physical property, such as equipment, signage, inventory, and furniture. It protects the business from losses in events such as fire, storm or theft. Property insurance can cover, for example, damage to things like inventory, computers, furniture, or signage.






Commercial property insurance typically doesn't cover the costs of events like floods and earthquakes. If your area is at risk for these events, you'll need a separate policy.


  Home-Based Businesses  

If you're operating a home-based business, you will likely need additional coverage for equipment and inventory. Standard homeowner’s policies don’t typically cover home-based businesses like commercial property insurance covers businesses. You can add home-based business insurance to a homeowner's policy as a rider for a small amount of coverage for equipment and a small amount of liability coverage.





Note

A business owner's policy is an insurance package that is often ideal for small businesses and home-based businesses. It is essentially typical insurance options in one bundle so you can buy it efficiently and save money.


  Product Liability Insurance  

Product liability insurance is designed for businesses that are involved with products, such as manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and retailers. Product liability insurance protects a business from costs associated with damages caused by products, such as a defective product causing bodily injury or harm. Without product liability insurance, a business can be vulnerable to paying for expensive lawsuits.


  Vehicle Insurance  

Any vehicles used for business should be insured. Whether you have vans, busses, tractor trailers, or passenger cars, you will need insurance in case of damage to the vehicles or cargo, or injuries to others. Each state has a minimum amount of required insurance. Several factors can affect the price of vehicle insurance, such as the driver's driving record and the condition of the vehicles.


  Business Interruption Insurance  

Business interruption (or continuation) policies are a type of insurance that is especially applicable to companies that have physical locations, such as retail stores or manufacturing facilities.



Business interruption insurance compensates a business for its lost income due to events that cause a disruption to the normal course of business. It's typically added on as a rider to a property insurance policy or as part of a business owner's policy.




How Much Does Commercial Insurance Cost?
The price of a commercial insurance policy will depend on a number of factors about your business and the insurance coverage. Progressive reports the median monthly cost of a business owners policy to be $70. The Hartford shares that the median monthly cost of its commercial policies is $55.




What Affects How Much Business Insurance Costs?
Several factors can influence the price of a business insurance policy, including the number of employees you have, the location of your business, and the amount of coverage you want. Generally, the more employees you have and the more coverage you need, the more expensive your policy will be. Prices also vary from region to region depending on the associated risks.




How Do You Get Commercial Insurance?
You can get commercial insurance through an insurance agency that provides the type of policy you need. You can work with an insurance agent at an insurance company who can give you a quote and guide you through your options and application process. You can often get a policy online or by calling the insurance agency.


   The Bottom Line  

Commercial insurance can be a valuable tool as it protects a business against potential losses related to unexpected events. When shopping for business insurance, explore several policy options and make sure you fully understand the terms for each. Consider consulting a professional financial advisor who can review the options of policy types that may best suit your business.
What Is Business Intelligence (BI)?  

Business intelligence (BI) refers to the procedural and technical infrastructure that collects, stores, and analyzes the data produced by a company’s activities.



BI is a broad term that encompasses data mining, process analysis, performance benchmarking, and descriptive analytics. BI parses all the data generated by a business and presents easy-to-digest reports, performance measures, and trends that inform management decisions.





Key Takeaways

BI represents the technical infrastructure that collects, stores, and analyzes company data.BI parses data and produces reports and information that help managers to make better decisions.Software companies produce BI solutions for companies that wish to make better use of their data.BI tools and software come in a wide variety of forms such as spreadsheets, reporting/query software, data visualization software, data mining tools, and online analytical processing (OLAP).Self-service BI is an approach to analytics that allows individuals without a technical background to access and explore data.


   Understanding Business Intelligence (BI)  

The need for BI was derived from the concept that managers with inaccurate or incomplete information will tend, on average, to make worse decisions than if they had better information. Creators of financial models recognize this as “garbage in, garbage out.”



BI attempts to solve this problem by analyzing current data that is ideally presented on a dashboard of quick metrics designed to support better decisions.






Most companies can benefit from incorporating BI solutions; managers with inaccurate or incomplete information will tend, on average, to make worse decisions than if they had better information.


   Special Considerations  

To be useful, BI must seek to increase the accuracy, timeliness, and amount of data.



These requirements mean finding more ways to capture information that is not already being recorded, checking the information for errors, and structuring the information in a way that makes broad analysis possible.



In practice, however, companies have data that is unstructured or in diverse formats that do not make for easy collection and analysis. Software firms thus provide business intelligence solutions to optimize the information gleaned from data. These are enterprise-level software applications designed to unify a company’s data and analytics.



Although software solutions continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly sophisticated, data scientists still need to manage the trade-offs between speed and the depth of reporting.



Some of the insights emerging from big data have companies scrambling to capture everything, but data analysts can usually filter out sources to find a selection of data points that can represent the health of a process or business area as a whole. This can reduce the need to capture and reformat everything for analysis, saving analytical time and increasing the reporting speed.


   Types of BI Tools and Software  

BI tools and software come in a wide variety of forms. Let's take a quick look at some common types of BI solutions.



Spreadsheets: Spreadsheets like Microsoft Excel and Google Docs are some of the most widely used BI tools. Reporting software: Reporting software is used to report, organize, filter, and display data. Data visualization software: Data visualization software translates datasets into easy-to-read, visually appealing graphical representations to quickly gain insights. Data mining tools: Data mining tools "mine" large amounts of data for patterns using things like artificial intelligence, machine learning, and statistics. Online analytical processing (OLAP): OLAP tools allow users to analyze datasets from a wide variety of angles based on different business perspectives. 


   Benefits of Business Intelligence  

There are many reasons why companies adopt BI. Many use it to support functions as diverse as hiring, compliance, production, and marketing. BI is a core business value; it is difficult to find a business area that does not benefit from better information to work with.



Some of the many benefits companies can experience after adopting BI into their business models include faster, more accurate reporting and analysis, improved data quality, better employee satisfaction, reduced costs, and increased revenues, and the ability to make better business decisions.






BI was derived to help businesses avoid the problem of "garbage in and garbage out," resulting from inaccurate or insufficient data analysis.



If, for example, you are in charge of production schedules for several beverage factories and sales are showing strong month-over-month growth in a particular region, you can approve extra shifts in near real-time to ensure your factories can meet demand.



Similarly, you can quickly idle down that same production if a cooler than normal summer starts impacting sales. This manipulation of production is a limited example of how BI can increase profits and reduce costs when used properly.


   Examples of BI  
  Lowe's Corp  

Lowe's Corp, which operates the nation's second-largest home improvement retail chain, is one of the earliest big-box adopters of BI tools. Specifically, it has leaned on BI tools to optimize its supply chain, analyze products to identify potential fraud, and solve problems with collective delivery charges from its stores.


  Coca-Cola Bottling Company  

Coca-Cola Bottling had a problem with its daily manual reporting processes: they restricted access to real-time sales and operations data.



But by replacing the manual process with an automated BI system, the company completely streamlined the process and saved 260 hours a year (or more than six 40-hour work weeks). Now, the company's team can quickly analyze metrics like delivery operations, budget, and profitability with just a few clicks.


   BI FAQs  
  What Is Power BI?  

Power BI is a business analytics product offered by software giant Microsoft. According to the company, it allows both individuals and businesses to connect to, model, and visualize data using a scalable platform.


  What Is Self-Service BI?  

Self-service BI is an approach to analytics that allows individuals without a technical background to access and explore data. In other words, it gives people throughout the organization, not just those in the IT department, to have control over the data.


  What Are Disadvantages of Self-Service BI?  

Drawbacks to self-service BI include a false sense of security in end-users, high licensing costs, a lack of data granularity, and sometimes too much accessibility.


  What Is IBM's BI Product?  

One of IBM's main BI products is its Cognos Analytics tool, which the company touts as an all-inclusive, AI-powered BI solution.
Investopedia / Laura Porter


   What Is a Business Model?  

The term business model refers to a company's plan for making a profit. It identifies the products or services the business plans to sell, its identified target market, and any anticipated expenses. Business models are important for both new and established businesses. They help new, developing companies attract investment, recruit talent, and motivate management and staff.



Established businesses should regularly update their business model or they'll fail to anticipate trends and challenges ahead. Business models also help investors evaluate companies that interest them and employees understand the future of a company they may aspire to join.





Key Takeaways

A business model is a company's core strategy for profitably doing business.Models generally include information like products or services the business plans to sell, target markets, and any anticipated expenses.There are dozens of types of business models including retailers, manufacturers, fee-for-service, or freemium providers. The two levers of a business model are pricing and costs.When evaluating a business model as an investor, consider whether the product being offer matches a true need in the market. 


   Understanding Business Models  

A business model is a high-level plan for profitably operating a business in a specific marketplace. A primary component of the business model is the value proposition. This is a description of the goods or services that a company offers and why they are desirable to customers or clients, ideally stated in a way that differentiates the product or service from its competitors.



A new enterprise's business model should also cover projected startup costs and financing sources, the target customer base for the business, marketing strategy, a review of the competition, and projections of revenues and expenses. The plan may also define opportunities in which the business can partner with other established companies. For example, the business model for an advertising business may identify benefits from an arrangement for referrals to and from a printing company.



Successful businesses have business models that allow them to fulfill client needs at a competitive price and a sustainable cost. Over time, many businesses revise their business models from time to time to reflect changing business environments and market demands.



When evaluating a company as a possible investment, the investor should find out exactly how it makes its money. This means looking through the company's business model. Admittedly, the business model may not tell you everything about a company's prospects. But the investor who understands the business model can make better sense of the financial data.


   Evaluating Successful Business Models  

A common mistake many companies make when they create their business models is to underestimate the costs of funding the business until it becomes profitable. Counting costs to the introduction of a product is not enough. A company has to keep the business running until its revenues exceed its expenses.



One way analysts and investors evaluate the success of a business model is by looking at the company's gross profit. Gross profit is a company's total revenue minus the cost of goods sold (COGS). Comparing a company's gross profit to that of its main competitor or its industry sheds light on the efficiency and effectiveness of its business model. Gross profit alone can be misleading, however. Analysts also want to see cash flow or net income. That is gross profit minus operating expenses and is an indication of just how much real profit the business is generating.



The two primary levers of a company's business model are pricing and costs. A company can raise prices, and it can find inventory at reduced costs. Both actions increase gross profit. Many analysts consider gross profit to be more important in evaluating a business plan. A good gross profit suggests a sound business plan. If expenses are out of control, the management team could be at fault, and the problems are correctable. As this suggests, many analysts believe that companies that run on the best business models can run themselves.






When evaluating a company as a possible investment, find out exactly how it makes its money (not just what it sells but how it sells it). That's the company's business model.


   Types of Business Models  

There are as many types of business models as there are types of business. For instance, direct sales, franchising, advertising-based, and brick-and-mortar stores are all examples of traditional business models. There are hybrid models as well, such as businesses that combine internet retail with brick-and-mortar stores or with sporting organizations like the NBA.



Below are some common types of business models; note that the examples given may fall into multiple categories.


  Retailer  

One of the more common business models most people interact with regularly is the retailer model. A retailer is the last entity along a supply chain. They often buy finished goods from manufacturers or distributors and interface directly with customers.



Example: Costco Wholesale


  Manufacturer  

A manufacturer is responsible for sourcing raw materials and producing finished products by leveraging internal labor, machinery, and equipment. A manufacturer may make custom goods or highly replicated, mass produced products. A manufacturer can also sell goods to distributors, retailers, or directly to customers.



Example: Ford Motor Company


  Fee-for-Service  

Instead of selling products, fee-for-service business models are centered around labor and providing services. A fee-for-service business model may charge by an hourly rate or a fixed cost for a specific agreement. Fee-for-service companies are often specialized, offering insight that may not be common knowledge or may require specific training.



Example: DLA Piper LLP


  Subscription  

Subscription-based business models strive to attract clients in the hopes of luring them into long-time, loyal patrons. This is done by offering a product that requires ongoing payment, usually in return for a fixed duration of benefit. Though largely offered by digital companies for access to software, subscription business models are also popular for physical goods such as monthly reoccurring agriculture/produce subscription box deliveries.



Example: Spotify


  Freemium  

Freemium business models attract customers by introducing them to basic, limited-scope products. Then, with the client using their service, the company attempts to convert them to a more premium, advance product that requires payment. Although a customer may theoretically stay on freemium forever, a company tries to show the benefit of what becoming an upgraded member can hold.



Example: LinkedIn/LinkedIn Premium






Some companies can reside within multiple business model types at the same time for the same product. For example, Spotify (a subscription-based model) also offers free version and a premium version.


  Bundling  

If a company is concerned about the cost of attracting a single customer, it may attempt to bundle products to sell multiple goods to a single client. Bundling capitalizes on existing customers by attempting to sell them different products. This can be incentivized by offering pricing discounts for buying multiple products.



Example: AT&T


  Marketplace  

Marketplaces are somewhat straight-forward: in exchange for hosting a platform for business to be conducted, the marketplace receives compensation. Although transactions could occur without a marketplace, this business models attempts to make transacting easier, safer, and faster.



Example: eBay


  Affiliate  

Affiliate business models are based on marketing and the broad reach of a specific entity or person's platform. Companies pay an entity to promote a good, and that entity often receives compensation in exchange for their promotion. That compensation may be a fixed payment, a percentage of sales derived from their promotion, or both.



Example: social media influencers such as Lele Pons, Zach King, or Chiara Ferragni.


  Razor Blade  

Aptly named after the product that invented the model, this business model aims to sell a durable product below cost to then generate high-margin sales of a disposable component of that product. Also referred to as the "razor and blade model", razor blade companies may give away expensive blade handles with the premise that consumers need to continually buy razor blades in the long run.



Example: HP (printers and ink)






"Tying" is an illegal razor blade model strategy that requires the purchase of an unrelated good prior to being able to buy a different (and often required) good. For example, imagine Gillette released a line of lotion and required all customers to buy three bottles before they were allowed to purchase disposable razor blades.


  Reverse Razor Blade  

Instead of relying on high-margin companion products, a reverse razor blade business model tries to sell a high-margin product upfront. Then, to use the product, low or free companion products are provided. This model aims to promote that upfront sale, as further use of the product is not highly profitable.



Example: Apple (iPhones + applications)


  Franchise  

The franchise business model leverages existing business plans to expand and reproduce a company at a different location. Often food, hardware, or fitness companies, franchisers work with incoming franchisees to finance the business, promote the new location, and oversee operations. In return, the franchisor receives a percentage of earnings from the franchisee.



Example: Domino's Pizza


  Pay-As-You-Go  

Instead of charging a fixed fee, some companies may implement a pay-as-you-go business model where the amount charged depends on how much of the product or service was used. The company may charge a fixed fee for offering the service in addition to an amount that changes each month based on what was consumed.



Example: Utility companies


  Brokerage  

A brokerage business model connects buyers and sellers without directly selling a good themselves. Brokerage companies often receive a percentage of the amount paid when a deal is finalized. Most common in real estate, brokers are also prominent in construction/development or freight.



Example: ReMax


   How to Create a Business Model  

There is no "one size fits all" when making a business model. Different professionals may suggest taking different steps when creating a business and planning your business model. Here are some broad steps one can take to create their plan:



Identify your audience. Most business model plans will start with either defining the problem or identifying your audience and target market. A strong business model will understand who you are trying to target so you can craft your product, messaging, and approach to connecting with that audience.
Define the problem. In addition to understanding your audience, you must know what problem you are trying to solve. A hardware company sells products for home repairs. A restaurant feeds the community. Without a problem or a need, your business may struggle to find its footing if there isn't a demand for your services or products.
Understand your offerings. With your audience and problem in mind, consider what you are able to offer. What products are you interested in selling, and how does your expertise match that product? In this stage of the business model, the product is tweaked to adapt to what the market needs and what you're able to provide.
Document your needs. With your product selected, consider the hurdles your company will face. This includes product-specific challenges as well as operational difficulties. Make sure to document each of these needs to assess whether you are ready to launch in the future.
Find key partners. Most businesses will leverage other partners in driving company success. For example, a wedding planner may forge relationships with venues, caterers, florists, and tailors to enhance their offering. For manufacturers, consider who will provide your materials and how critical your relationship with that provider will be.
Set monetization solutions. Until now, we haven't talked about how your company will make money. A business model isn't complete until it identifies how it will make money. This includes selecting the strategy or strategies above in determining your business model type. This might have been a type you had in mind but after reviewing your clients needs, a different type might now make more sense.
Test your model. When your full plan is in place, perform test surveys or soft launches. Ask how people would feel paying your prices for your services. Offer discounts to new customers in exchange for reviews and feedback. You can always adjust your business model, but you should always consider leveraging direct feedback from the market when doing so.






Instead of reinventing the wheel, consider what competing companies are doing and how you can position yourself in the market. You may be able to easily spot gaps in the business model of others.


   Criticism of Business Models  

Joan Magretta, the former editor of the Harvard Business Review, suggests there are two critical factors in sizing up business models. When business models don't work, she states, it's because the story doesn't make sense and/or the numbers just don't add up to profits. The airline industry is a good place to look to find a business model that stopped making sense. It includes companies that have suffered heavy losses and even bankruptcy.



For years, major carriers such as American Airlines, Delta, and Continental built their businesses around a hub-and-spoke structure, in which all flights were routed through a handful of major airports. By ensuring that most seats were filled most of the time, the business model produced big profits.



However, a competing business model arose that made the strength of the major carriers a burden. Carriers like Southwest and JetBlue shuttled planes between smaller airports at a lower cost. They avoided some of the operational inefficiencies of the hub-and-spoke model while forcing labor costs down. That allowed them to cut prices, increasing demand for short flights between cities.



As these newer competitors drew more customers away, the old carriers were left to support their large, extended networks with fewer passengers. The problem became even worse when traffic fell sharply following the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001. To fill seats, these airlines had to offer more discounts at even deeper levels. The hub-and-spoke business model no longer made sense.


   Example of Business Models  

Consider the vast portfolio of Microsoft. Over the past several decades, the company has expanded its product line across digital services, software, gaming, and more. Various business models, all within Microsoft, include but are not limited to:



Productivity and Business Processes: Microsoft offers subscriptions to Office products and LinkedIn. These subscriptions may be based off product usage (i.e. the amount of data being uploaded to SharePoint).Intelligent Cloud: Microsoft offers server products and cloud services for a subscription. This also provide services and consulting.More Personal Computing: Microsoft sells physically manufactured products such as Surface, PC components, and Xbox hardware. Residual Xbox sales include content, services, subscriptions, royalties, and advertising revenue.




What Is a Business Model?
A business model is a strategic plan of how a company will make money. The model describes the way a business will take its product, offer it to the market, and drive sales. A business model determines what products make sense for a company to sell, how it wants to promote its products, what type of people it should try to cater to, and what revenue streams it may expect.




What Is an Example of a Business Model?
Best Buy, Target, and Walmart are some of the largest examples of retail companies. These companies acquire goods from manufacturers or distributors to sell directly to the public. Retailers interface with their clients and sell goods, though retails may or may not make the actual goods they sell.




What Are the Main Types of Business Models?
Retailers and manufacturers are among the primary types of business models. Manufacturers product their own goods and may or may not sell them directly to the public. Meanwhile, retails buy goods to later resell to the public.




How Do I Build a Business Model?
There are many steps to building a business model, and there is no single consistent process among business experts. In general, a business model should identify your customers, understand the problem you are trying to solve, select a business model type to determine how your clients will buy your product, and determine the ways your company will make money. It is also important to periodically review your business model; once you've launched, feel free to evaluate your plan and adjust your target audience, product line, or pricing as needed.


   The Bottom Line  

A company isn't just an entity that sells goods. It's an ecosystem that must have a plan in plan on who to sell to, what to sell, what to charge, and what value it is creating. A business model describes what an organization does to systematically create long-term value for its customers. After building a business model, a company should have stronger direction on how it wants to operate and what its financial future appears to be.
What Is a Business Plan?  

A business plan is a document that defines in detail a company's objectives and how it plans to achieve its goals. A business plan lays out a written road map for the firm from marketing, financial, and operational standpoints. Both startups and established companies use business plans.



A business plan is an important document aimed at a company's external and internal audiences. For instance, a business plan is used to attract investment before a company has established a proven track record. It can also help to secure lending from financial institutions.



Furthermore, a business plan can serve to keep a company's executive team on the same page about strategic action items and on target for meeting established goals.



Although they're especially useful for new businesses, every company should have a business plan. Ideally, the plan is reviewed and updated periodically to reflect goals that have been met or have changed. Sometimes, a new business plan is created for an established business that has decided to move in a new direction.





Key Takeaways

A business plan is a document describing a company's core business activities and how it plans to achieve its goals.Startup companies use business plans to get off the ground and attract outside investors.A business plan can also be used as an internal guide to keep an executive team focused on and working toward short- and long-term objectives.Businesses may create a lengthier traditional business plan or a shorter lean startup business plan.Good business plans should include an executive summary and sections on products and services, marketing strategy and analysis, financial planning, and a budget. 












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Business Plans  

A business plan is a fundamental document that any new business should have in place prior to beginning operations. Indeed, banks and venture capital firms often require a viable business plan before considering whether they'll provide capital to new businesses.



Operating without a business plan usually is not a good idea. In fact, very few companies are able to last very long without one. There are benefits to creating (and sticking to) a good business plan. These include being able to think through ideas before investing too much money in them and working through potential obstacles to success.



A good business plan should outline all the projected costs and possible pitfalls of each decision a company makes. Business plans, even among competitors in the same industry, are rarely identical. However, they can have the same basic elements, such as an executive summary of the business and detailed descriptions of its operations, products and services, and financial projections. A plan also states how the business intends to achieve its goals.






While it's a good idea to give as much detail as possible, it's also important that a plan be concise to keep a reader's attention to the end.


   How to Write a Business Plan  

A well-considered and well-written business plan can be of enormous value to a company. While there are templates that you can use to write a business plan, try to avoid producing a generic result. The plan should include an overview and, if possible, details of the industry of which the business will be a part. It should explain how the business will distinguish itself from its competitors.



Start with the essential structure: an executive summary, company description, market analysis, product or service description, marketing strategy, financial projections, and appendix (which include documents and data that support the main sections). These sections or elements of a business plan are outlined below.



When you write your business plan, you don’t have to strictly follow a particular business plan outline or template. Use only those sections that make the most sense for your particular business and its needs.



Traditional business plans use some combination of the sections below. Your plan might also include any funding requests you're making. Regardless, try to keep the main body of your plan to around 15-25 pages.


   Elements of a Business Plan  

The length of a business plan varies greatly from business to business. Consider fitting the basic information into a 15- to 25-page document. Then, other crucial elements that take up a lot of space—such as applications for patents—can be referenced in the main document and included as appendices.



As mentioned above, no two business plans are the same. Nonetheless, they tend to have the same elements. Below are some of the common and key parts of a business plan.



Executive summary: This section outlines the company and includes the mission statement along with any information about the company's leadership, employees, operations, and location.
Products and services: Here, the company can outline the products and services it will offer, and may also include pricing, product lifespan, and benefits to the consumer. Other factors that may go into this section include production and manufacturing processes, any patents the company may have, as well as proprietary technology. Information about research and development (R&D) can also be included here.
Market analysis: A firm needs a good handle on its industry as well as its target market. This section of the plan will detail a company's competition and how the company fits in the industry, along with its relative strengths and weaknesses. It will also describe the expected consumer demand for a company's products or services and how easy or difficult it may be to grab market share from incumbents.
Marketing strategy: This section describes how the company will attract and keep its customer base and how it intends to reach the consumer. A clear distribution channel must be outlined. The section also spells out advertising and marketing campaign plans and the types of media those campaigns will use.
Financial planning: This section should include a company's financial planning and projections. Financial statements, balance sheets, and other financial information may be included for established businesses. New businesses will include targets and estimates for the first few years plus a description of potential investors.
Budget: Every company needs to have a budget in place. This section should include costs related to staffing, development, manufacturing, marketing, and any other expenses related to the business.





Unique Business Plans Help

The best business plans aren't generic ones created from easily accessed templates. A company should entice readers with a plan that demonstrates its singularity and potential for success.


   Types of Business Plans  

Business plans help companies identify their objectives and remain on track to meet goals. They can help companies start, manage themselves, and grow once up and running. They also act as a means to attract lenders and investors.



Although there is no right or wrong business plan, they can fall into two different categories—traditional or lean startup. According to the Small Business Administration (SBA), the traditional business plan is the most common. It contains a lot of detail in each section. These tend to be longer than the lean startup plan and require more work.



Lean startup business plans, on the other hand, use an abbreviated structure that highlights key elements. These business plans aren't as common in the business world because they're short—as short as one page—and lack detail. If a company uses this kind of plan, it should be prepared to provide more detail if an investor or lender requests it.


   Special Considerations  
  Financial Projections  

A complete business plan must include a set of financial projections for the business. These forward-looking financial statements are often called pro-forma financial statements or simply the "pro-formas." They include an overall budget, current and projected financing needs, a market analysis, and the company's marketing strategy.


  Other Considerations for a Business Plan  

A major reason for a business plan is to give owners a clear picture of objectives, goals, resources, potential costs, and drawbacks of certain business decisions. A business plan should help them modify their structures before implementing their ideas. It also allows owners to project the type of financing required to get their businesses up and running.



If there are any especially interesting aspects of the business, they should be highlighted and used to attract financing, if needed. For example, Tesla Motors' electric car business essentially began only as a business plan.



Importantly, a business plan shouldn't be a static document. As a business grows and changes, so too should the business plan. An annual review of the company and its plan allows an entrepreneur or group of owners to update the plan, based on successes, setbacks, and other new information. It provides an opportunity to size up the plan's ability to help the company grow.



Think of the business plan as a living document that evolves with your business.




What Is a Business Plan?
A business plan is a document created by a company that describes the company's goals, operations, industry standing, marketing objectives, and financial projections. The information it contains can be a helpful guide in running the company. What's more, it can be a valuable tool to attract investors and obtain financing from financial institutions.




Why Do Business Plans Fail?
Even if you have a good business plan, your company can still fail, especially if you do not stick to the plan! Having strong leadership with a focus on the plan is always a good strategy. Even when following the plan, if you had poor assumptions going into your projections, you can be caught with cash flow shortages and out-of-control budgets. Markets and the economy can also change. Without flexibility built into your business plan, you may be unable to pivot to a new course as needed.




What Does a Lean Startup Business Plan Include?
The lean startup business plan is an option when a company prefers a quick explanation of its business. The company may feel that it doesn't have a lot of information to provide since it's just getting started.Sections can include: a value proposition, a company's major activities and advantages, resources such as staff, intellectual property, and capital, a list of partnerships, customer segments, and revenue sources.
What Is Business Process Outsourcing (BPO)?  

Business process outsourcing (BPO) is a method of subcontracting various business-related operations to third-party vendors.



Although BPO originally applied solely to manufacturing entities, such as soft drink manufacturers that outsourced large segments of their supply chains, BPO now applies to the outsourcing of various products and services.





Key Takeaways

Business process outsourcing (BPO) utilizes third-party vendors or subcontractors to carry out certain parts of their business operations.BPO began with large manufacturing companies to aid with supply chain management,Today BPO has grown to include all sorts of sectors, including services companies.BPO is considered "offshore outsourcing" if the vendor or subcontractor is located in a different country; for instance, in the case of customer support.BPO today is an industry unto itself, with companies specializing in facilitating BPO to companies around the world.


   Understanding Business Process Outsourcing (BPO)  

Many businesses, from small startups to large companies, opt to outsource processes, as new and innovative services are increasingly available in today's ever-changing, highly competitive business climate.



Broadly speaking, companies adopt BPO practices in the two main areas of back-office and front-office operations. Back office BPO refers to a company contracting its core business support operations such as accounting, payment processing, IT services, human resources, regulatory compliance, and quality assurance to outside professionals who ensure the business runs smoothly.



By contrast, front office BPO tasks commonly include customer-related services such as tech support, sales, and marketing.


   Special Considerations  

﻿The breadth of a business' BPO options depends on whether it contracts its operations within or outside the borders of its home country. BPO is deemed "offshore outsourcing" if the contract is sent to another country where there is political stability, lower labor costs, and/or tax savings. A U.S. company using an offshore BPO vendor in Singapore is one such example of offshore outsourcing.



BPO is referred to as "nearshore outsourcing" if the job is contracted to a neighboring country. Such would be the case if a U.S. company partnered with a BPO vendor located in Canada.



A third option, known as "onshore outsourcing" or "domestic sourcing," occurs when BPO is contracted within the company’s own country, even if its vendor partners are located in different cities or states.



BPO is often referred to as information technology-enabled services (ITES) because it relies on technology/infrastructure that enables external companies to efficiently perform their roles.


   The Attraction of BPO  

Companies are often drawn to BPO because it affords them greater operational flexibility. By outsourcing non-core and administrative functions, companies can reallocate time and resources to core competencies like customer relations and product leadership, which ultimately results in advantages over competing businesses in their industry.



BPO offers businesses access to innovative technological resources that they might not otherwise have exposure to. BPO partners and companies constantly strive to improve their processes by adopting the most recent technologies and practices.



Since the U.S. corporate income tax is among the highest in the developed world, American companies benefit from outsourcing operations to countries with lower income taxes and cheaper labor forces as viable cost reduction measures.



BPO also offers companies the benefits of quick and accurate reporting, improved productivity, and the ability to swiftly reassign its resources, when necessary.


   Some Disadvantages of BPO  

While there are many advantages of BPO, there are also disadvantages. A business that outsources its business processes may be prone to data breaches or have communication issues that delay project completion, and such businesses may underestimate the running costs of BPO providers.



Another disadvantage could be customer backlash against outsourcing if they perceive this to be of inferior quality or at the expense of domestic employment.





A Career in BPO

Business process outsourcing is a fast-growing sector of the economy, which makes it attractive as a career path or startup opportunity. According to industry research, the BPO market was valued at nearly $250 billion in 2021, and is projected to grow at 9% per year over the next decade.According to data from Zip Recruiter, BPO jobs in America pay an average of $91,100 as of 2022.




What Is the Goal of BPO and What Are Its Types?
BPO is the abbreviation for business process outsourcing, which refers to when companies outsource business processes to a third-party (external) company. The primary goal is to cut costs, free up time, and focus on core aspects of the business. Two types of BPO are front-office and back-office. Back-office BPO entails the internal aspects of a business, such as payroll, inventory purchasing, and billing. Front-office BPO focuses on activities external to the company, such as marketing and customer service.




What Are the Advantages of BPO?
There are numerous advantages to BPO. One of the primary advantages is that it lowers costs. Performing a certain job function internally costs a specific amount. BPO can reduce these costs by outsourcing this job to an external party, often in a less cost-intensive country, reducing the overall cost of performing that job function.Other advantages include a company being allowed to focus on core business functions that are critical to its success, rather than administrative tasks or other aspects of running a company that are not critical. BPO also helps with growth, particularly in global expansion. If a company is interested in opening an overseas branch or operating overseas, utilizing a BPO company that has experience in the local industry and that speaks the language is extremely beneficial.




What Are the Types of BPO Companies?
There are three primary types of BPO companies. These are local outsourcing, offshore outsourcing, and nearshore outsourcing. Local outsourcing is a company that is in the same country as your business. Offshore outsourcing is a company that is in another country, and nearshore outsourcing is a company that is in a country that is not too far from your country.




What Is a BPO Call Center?
A BPO call center handles outsourced incoming and outgoing customer calls on behalf of other businesses. Many BPO call centers will have agents that can individually handle customer complaints or inquiries standing in for a number of different companies, often within a particular specialty. For instance, one call center agent may be able to field tech support phone calls for a variety of vendors or manufacturers.


   The Bottom Line  

Business process outsourcing (BPO) utilizes third-party specialists to carry out some part of a business process or operation (as opposed to outsourcing the entire production). BPO can lower a company's costs, increase efficiency, and provide flexibility. At the same time, the BPO industry is rapidly-growing, which means that in our increasingly global economy, process outsourcing is not going anywhere.
What Is Business Risk?  

Business risk is the exposure a company or organization has to factor(s) that will lower its profits or lead it to fail. Anything that threatens a company's ability to achieve its financial goals is considered a business risk. There are many factors that can converge to create business risk. Sometimes it is a company's top leadership or management that creates situations where a business may be exposed to a greater degree of risk.



However, sometimes the cause of risk is external to a company. Because of this, it is impossible for a company to completely shelter itself from risk. However, there are ways to mitigate the overall risks associated with operating a business; most companies accomplish this by adopting a risk management strategy.





Key Takeaways

Business risk is any exposure a company or organization has to factor(s) that may lower its profits or cause it to go bankrupt. The sources of business risk are varied but can range from changes in consumer taste and demand, the state of the overall economy, and government rules and regulations.While companies may not be able to completely avoid business risk, they can take steps to mitigate its impact, including the development of a strategic risk plan. 


   Understanding Business Risk  

When a company experiences a high degree of business risk, it may impair its ability to provide investors and stakeholders with adequate returns. For example, the CEO of a company may make certain decisions that affect its profits, or the CEO may not accurately anticipate certain events in the future, causing the business to incur losses or fail.



Business risk is influenced by a number of different factors including:



Consumer preferences, demand, and sales volumesPer-unit price and input costsCompetitionThe overall economic climateGovernment regulations



A company with a higher amount of business risk may decide to adopt a capital structure with a lower debt ratio to ensure that it can meet its financial obligations at all times. With a low debt ratio, when revenues drop the company may not be able to service its debt (and this may lead to bankruptcy). On the other hand, when revenues increase, a company with a low debt ratio experiences larger profits and is able to keep up with its obligations.



To calculate risk, analysts use four simple ratios: contribution margin, operation leverage effect, financial leverage effect, and total leverage effect. For more complex calculations, analysts can incorporate statistical methods. Business risk usually occurs in one of four ways: strategic risk, compliance risk, operational risk, and reputational risk.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Types of Business Risk  
  Strategic Risk  

Strategic risk arises when a business does not operate according to its business model or plan. When a company does not operate according to its business model, its strategy becomes less effective over time and it may struggle to reach its defined goals. If, for example, Walmart strategically positions itself as a low-cost provider and Target decides to undercut Walmart's prices, this becomes a strategic risk for Walmart.


  Compliance Risk  

The second form of business risk is referred to as compliance risk. Compliance risk primarily arises in industries and sectors that are highly regulated. For example, in the wine industry, there is a three-tier system of distribution that requires wholesalers in the U.S. to sell wine to a retailer (who then sells it to consumers). This system prohibits wineries from selling their products directly to retail stores in some states.



However, there are many U.S. states that do not have this type of distribution system; compliance risk arises when a brand fails to understand the individual requirements of the state that it is operating within. In this situation, a brand risks becoming non-compliant with state-specific distribution laws.


  Operational Risk  

The third type of business risk is operational risk. This risk arises from within the corporation, especially when the day-to-day operations of a company fail to perform. For example, in 2012, the multinational bank HSBC faced a high degree of operational risk and as a result, incurred a large fine from the U.S. Department of Justice when its internal anti-money laundering operations team was unable to adequately stop money laundering in Mexico.


  Reputational Risk  

Any time a company's reputation is ruined, either by an event that was the result of a previous business risk or by a different occurrence, it runs the risk of losing customers and its brand loyalty suffering. The reputation of HSBC faltered in the aftermath of the fine it was levied for poor anti-money laundering practices.


   Special Considerations  

Business risk cannot be entirely avoided because it is unpredictable. However, there are many strategies that businesses employ to cut back the impact of all types of business risk, including strategic, compliance, operational, and reputational risk.



The first step that brands typically take is to identify all sources of risk in their business plan. These aren't just external risks—they may also come from within the business itself. Taking action to cut back the risks as soon as they present themselves is key. Management should come up with a plan in order to deal with any identifiable risks before they become too great.



Once the management of a company has come up with a plan to deal with the risk, it's important that they take the extra step of documenting everything in case the same situation arises again. After all, business risk isn't static—it tends to repeat itself during the business cycle.



Finally, most companies adopt a risk management strategy. This can be done either before the business begins operations or after it experiences a setback. Ideally, a risk management strategy will help the company be better prepared to deal with risks as they present themselves. The plan should have tested ideas and procedures in place in the event that risk presents itself.
What Is Business-to-Business (B2B)?  

Business-to-business (B2B), also called B-to-B, is a form of transaction between businesses, such as one involving a manufacturer and wholesaler, or a wholesaler and a retailer. Business-to-business refers to business that is conducted between companies, rather than between a company and individual consumer. Business-to-business stands in contrast to business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-government (B2G) transactions.





Key Takeaways

Business-to-business (B2B) is a transaction or business conducted between one business and another, such as a wholesaler and retailer.B2B transactions tend to happen in the supply chain, where one company will purchase raw materials from another to be used in the manufacturing process.B2B transactions are also commonplace for auto industry companies, as well as property management, housekeeping, and industrial cleanup companies. Meanwhile, business-to-consumer transactions (B2C) are those made between a company and individual consumers.












Lara Antal / Investopedia


   Understanding Business-to-Business (B2B)  

Business-to-business transactions are common in a typical supply chain, as companies purchase components and products such as other raw materials for use in the manufacturing processes. Finished products can then be sold to individuals via business-to-consumer transactions.



In the context of communication, business-to-business refers to methods by which employees from different companies can connect with one another, such as through social media. This type of communication between the employees of two or more companies is called B2B communication.


  B2B E-Commerce  

Late in 2018, Forrester said the B2B e-commerce market topped $1.134 trillion—above the $954 billion it had projected for 2018 in a forecast released in 2017. That's roughly 12% of the total $9 trillion in total US B2B sales for the year. They expect this percentage to climb to 17% by 2023. The internet provides a robust environment in which businesses can find out about products and services and lay the groundwork for future business-to-business transactions.



Company websites allow interested parties to learn about a business's products and services and initiate contact. Online product and supply exchange websites allow businesses to search for products and services and initiate procurement through e-procurement interfaces. Specialized online directories providing information about particular industries, companies and the products and services they provide also facilitate B2B transactions. 


   Special Considerations  

Business-to-business transactions require planning to be successful. Such transactions rely on a company’s account management personnel to establish business client relationships. Business-to-business relationships must also be nurtured, typically through professional interactions prior to sales, for successful transactions to take place.



Traditional marketing practices also help businesses connect with business clients. Trade publications aid in this effort, offering businesses opportunities to advertise in print and online. A business’s presence at conferences and trade shows also builds awareness of the products and services it provides to other businesses.


   Example of Business-to-Business (B2B)  

Business-to-business transactions and large corporate accounts are commonplace for firms in manufacturing. Samsung, for example, is one of Apple's largest suppliers in the production of the iPhone. Apple also holds B2B relationships with firms like Intel, Panasonic and semiconductor producer Micron Technology.



B2B transactions are also the backbone of the automobile industry. Many vehicle components are manufactured independently, and auto manufacturers purchase these parts to assemble automobiles. Tires, batteries, electronics, hoses and door locks, for example, are usually manufactured by various companies and sold directly to automobile manufacturers.



Service providers also engage in B2B transactions. Companies specializing in property management, housekeeping, and industrial cleanup, for example, often sell these services exclusively to other businesses, rather than individual consumers.
What Is Business-to-Consumer (B2C)?  

The term business-to-consumer (B2C) refers to the process of selling products and services directly between a business and consumers who are the end-users of its products or services. Most companies that sell directly to consumers can be referred to as B2C companies.



B2C became immensely popular during the dotcom boom of the late 1990s when it was mainly used to refer to online retailers who sold products and services to consumers through the internet.



As a business model, business-to-consumer differs significantly from the business-to-business (B2B) model, which refers to commerce between two or more businesses.





Key Takeaways

Business-to-consumer refers to the process of businesses selling products and services directly to consumers, with no middle person.B2C typically refers to online retailers who sell products and services to consumers through the internet.Online B2C became a threat to traditional retailers, who profited from adding a markup to the price.However, companies like Amazon, eBay, and Priceline have thrived, ultimately becoming industry disruptors.












Business to Consumer (B2C)


   Understanding Business-to-Consumer (B2C)  

Business-to-consumer (B2C) is among the most popular and widely known sales models. Michael Aldrich first utilized the idea of B2C in 1979 and used television as the primary medium to reach out to consumers.



B2C traditionally referred to mall shopping, eating out at restaurants, pay-per-view movies, and infomercials. However, the rise of the internet created a whole new B2C business channel in the form of e-commerce or selling goods and services over the internet.



Although many B2C companies fell victim to the subsequent dotcom bust as investor interest in the sector dwindled and venture capital funding dried up, B2C leaders such as Amazon and Priceline survived the shakeout and have since seen tremendous success.



Any business that relies on B2C sales must maintain good relations with its customers to ensure they return. The company must regularly review its marketing for good performance and adjust it when necessary.



Unlike business-to-business (B2B), whose marketing campaigns are geared to demonstrate the value of a product or service, companies that rely on B2C usually elicit an emotional response to their marketing in their customers.


   B2C Storefronts vs. Internet Retailers  

Traditionally, many manufacturers sold their products to retailers with physical locations. Retailers made profits on the markup they added to the price paid to the manufacturer. But that changed once the internet came. New businesses arose that promised to sell directly to the consumer, thus cutting out the middle person—the retailer—and lowering prices. During the bust of the dotcom boom in the 1990s, businesses fought to secure a web presence. Many retailers were forced to shut their doors and went out of business.



Decades after the dotcom revolution, B2C companies with a web presence continue to dominate over their traditional brick-and-mortar competitors. Companies such as Amazon, Priceline, and eBay are survivors of the early dotcom boom. They have gone on to expand upon their early success to become industry disruptors.






Online B2C can be broken down into five categories: direct sellers, online intermediaries, advertising-based B2C, community-based, and fee-based.


   B2C in the Digital World  

There are typically five types of online B2C business models that most companies use online to target consumers.



1. Direct sellers. This is the most common model in which people buy goods from online retailers. These may include manufacturers or small businesses or simply online versions of department stores that sell products from different manufacturers. 



2. Online intermediaries. These are liaisons or go-betweens who don't actually own products or services that put buyers and sellers together. Sites like Expedia, trivago, and Etsy fall into this category.



3. Advertising-based B2C. This model uses free content to get visitors to a website. Those visitors, in turn, come across digital or online ads. Large volumes of web traffic are used to sell advertising, which sells goods and services. One example is media sites like HuffPost, a high-traffic site that mixes advertising with its native content. 



4. Community-based. Sites like Meta (formerly Facebook), which build online communities based on shared interests, help marketers and advertisers promote their products directly to consumers. Websites typically target ads based on users' demographics and geographical location.



5. Fee-based. Direct-to-consumer sites like Netflix charge a fee so consumers can access their content. The site may also offer free but limited content while charging for most of it. The New York Times and other large newspapers often use a fee-based B2C business model. 


   B2C Companies and Mobile  

Decades after the e-commerce boom, B2C companies are continuing to eye a growing market: mobile purchasing. With smartphone apps and traffic growing year-over-year, B2C companies have shifted attention to mobile users and capitalized on this popular technology.



Throughout the early 2010s, B2C companies were rushing to develop mobile apps, just as they were with websites decades earlier. In short, success in a B2C model is predicated on continuously evolving with consumers' appetites, opinions, trends, and desires.






Because of the nature of the purchases and relationships between businesses, sales in the B2B model may take longer than those in the B2C model.


   B2C vs. Business-to-Business (B2B)  

As mentioned above, the business-to-consumer model differs from the business-to-business (B2B) model. While consumers buy products for their personal use, businesses buy products to use for their companies. Large purchases, such as capital equipment, generally require approval from those who head up a company. This makes a business' purchasing power more complex than that of the average consumer.



Unlike the B2C business model, pricing structures tend to be different in the B2B model. With B2C, consumers often pay the same price for the same products. However, prices are not necessarily the same. Businesses tend to negotiate prices and payment terms.




What Is Business-to-Consumer and How Does It Differ From Business-to-Business?
After surging in popularity in the 1990s, business-to-consumer (B2C) increasingly became a term that referred to companies with consumers as their end-users. This stands in contrast to business-to-business (B2B), or companies whose primary clients are other businesses. B2C companies operate on the internet and sell products to customers online. Amazon, Meta (formerly Facebook), and Walmart are some examples of B2C companies.




What Is an Example of a Business-to-Consumer Company?
One example of a major B2C company today is Shopify, which has developed a platform for small retailers to sell their products and reach a broader audience online. Before the advent of the internet, however, business-to-consumer was a term that was used to describe take-out restaurants, or companies in a mall, for instance. In 1979, Michael Aldrich further utilized this term to attract consumers through television.




What Are the 5 Types of Business-to-Consumer Models?
Typically, B2C models fall into the following five categories: direct sellers, online intermediaries, advertising-based B2C, community-based, and fee-based. The most frequently occurring is the direct seller model, where goods are purchased directly from online retailers. By contrast, an online intermediary model would include companies like Expedia, which connect buyers and sellers. Meanwhile, a fee-based model includes services such as Disney+, which charges a subscription to stream their video-on-demand content.
What Is Business to Government (B2G)?  

Business to government (B2G) is the sale and marketing of goods and services to federal, state, or local agencies. In modern lingo, there are three basic business models: business to consumer (B2C), business to business (B2B), and business to government (B2G).



B2G is not an insignificant chunk of business. The federal government alone spent anywhere between $18.2 billion and $42.6 billion per day in 2020-2021. Notably, a portion of its business is supposed to be spent on small business suppliers.





Key Takeaways

B2G, or business to government, is the provision of goods and services to government agencies at the federal, state, and local levels.Most contracts are granted in response to a request for proposal (RFP) from an agency.Businesses bid for contracts by submitting responses to RFPs.


   Understanding Business to Government (B2G)  

B2B business can be as modest as a small business providing IT support services to a town government. Or, it can be as big as Boeing, which builds helicopters, missile defense systems, fighter jets, and surveillance aircraft, among many other products, for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD).



At the federal level, the General Services Administration (GSA) is the government's official buying arm, developing and implementing regulations on a vast array of products and services purchased for the U.S. government.


  How Businesses Get Government Contracts  

Governments generally solicit services from the private sector through requests for proposal (RFPs).



The GSA website, GSAAdvantage.gov, is a shopping portal for government agencies and gives an idea of the sheer breadth of products purchased by the federal government.



Not surprisingly, given the enormous numbers and range of federal, state, and local purchasing requirements, an entire sector of the internet is devoted to matching businesses to government agencies. Some of the sites offering access to information on current government contracts include Periscope S2G (www.periscopeholdings.com), bidsync.com, thebidlab.com, and findrfp.com.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Business to Government (B2G)  

Businesses that are used to interacting with other businesses or directly with consumers often encounter unexpected hurdles when working with government agencies.



Governments tend to take more time than private companies to approve and begin work on a given project. Layers of regulation can drag on the overall efficiency of the contracting process.





$18 billion and up 

The estimated amount spent daily by the U.S. government.﻿﻿



While businesses may find that government contracts involve additional paperwork, time, and vetting, there are advantages to providing goods and services to the public sector.



Government contracts are often large and more stable than analogous private-sector work. A company with a history of successful government contracting usually finds it easier to get the next contract.


   Special Considerations  
  The Small Business Edge  

Federal requirements often specify that certain amounts of appropriated funds must be spent on contracts with small businesses. This potentially can give smaller businesses an advantage in B2G activity, or at least offset some of the advantages that large, well-established government contractors may already enjoy.






The Small Business Administration (SBA) offers an online guide to help small businesses win federal contracts.



In order to qualify as a small business contractor, a business must be properly registered as such, demonstrating that it is independently owned and operated and makes a significant contribution to the U.S. economy, among other requirements.



In addition to small businesses, federal laws and regulations often mandate certain amounts of spending be directed toward politically favored groups in society, such as veterans, women, and racial or ethnic minorities. Small businesses owned by members of these groups may enjoy special advantages in obtaining B2G contracts.
Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   What Is a Business Valuation?  

A business valuation, also known as a company valuation, is the process of determining the economic value of a business. During the valuation process, all areas of a business are analyzed to determine its worth and the worth of its departments or units.



A company valuation can be used to determine the fair value of a business for a variety of reasons, including sale value, establishing partner ownership, taxation, and even divorce proceedings. Owners will often turn to professional business evaluators for an objective estimate of the value of the business.





Key Takeaways

Business valuation determines the economic value of a business or business unit.Business valuation can be used to determine the fair value of a business for a variety of reasons, including sale value, establishing partner ownership, taxation, and even divorce proceedings.Several methods of valuing a business exist, such as looking at its market cap, earnings multipliers, or book value, among others.


   The Basics of Business Valuation  

The topic of business valuation is frequently discussed in corporate finance. Business valuation is typically conducted when a company is looking to sell all or a portion of its operations or looking to merge with or acquire another company. The valuation of a business is the process of determining the current worth of a business, using objective measures, and evaluating all aspects of the business.



A business valuation might include an analysis of the company's management, its capital structure, its future earnings prospects or the market value of its assets. The tools used for valuation can vary among evaluators, businesses, and industries. Common approaches to business valuation include a review of financial statements, discounting cash flow models and similar company comparisons.



Valuation is also important for tax reporting. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires that a business is valued based on its fair market value. Some tax-related events such as sale, purchase or gifting of shares of a company will be taxed depending on valuation.






Estimating the fair value of a business is an art and a science; there are several formal models that can be used, but choosing the right one and then the appropriate inputs can be somewhat subjective.


   Methods of Valuation  

There are numerous ways a company can be valued. You'll learn about several of these methods below.


  1. Market Capitalization  

Market capitalization is the simplest method of business valuation. It is calculated by multiplying the company’s share price by its total number of shares outstanding. For example, as of January 3, 2018, Microsoft Inc. traded at $86.35. With a total number of shares outstanding of 7.715 billion, the company could then be valued at $86.35 x 7.715 billion = $666.19 billion.


  2. Times Revenue Method  

Under the times revenue business valuation method, a stream of revenues generated over a certain period of time is applied to a multiplier which depends on the industry and economic environment. For example, a tech company may be valued at 3x revenue, while a service firm may be valued at 0.5x revenue.


  3. Earnings Multiplier  

Instead of the times revenue method, the earnings multiplier may be used to get a more accurate picture of the real value of a company, since a company’s profits are a more reliable indicator of its financial success than sales revenue is. The earnings multiplier adjusts future profits against cash flow that could be invested at the current interest rate over the same period of time. In other words, it adjusts the current P/E ratio to account for current interest rates.


  4. Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Method  

The DCF method of business valuation is similar to the earnings multiplier. This method is based on projections of future cash flows, which are adjusted to get the current market value of the company. The main difference between the discounted cash flow method and the profit multiplier method is that it takes inflation into consideration to calculate the present value.


  5. Book Value  

This is the value of shareholders’ equity of a business as shown on the balance sheet statement. The book value is derived by subtracting the total liabilities of a company from its total assets.


  6. Liquidation Value  

Liquidation value is the net cash that a business will receive if its assets were liquidated and liabilities were paid off today.



This is by no means an exhaustive list of the business valuation methods in use today. Other methods include replacement value, breakup value, asset-based valuation, and still many more.


   Accreditation in Business Valuation  

In the U.S., Accredited in Business Valuation (ABV) is a professional designation awarded to accountants such as CPAs who specialize in calculating the value of businesses. The ABV certification is overseen by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and requires candidates to complete an application process, pass an exam, meet minimum Business Experience and Education requirements, and pay a credential fee (as of Mar. 11, 2022, the annual fee for the ABV Credential was $380).



Maintaining the ABV credential also requires those who hold the certification to meet minimum standards for work experience and lifelong learning. Successful applicants earn the right to use the ABV designation with their names, which can improve job opportunities, professional reputation and pay. In Canada, Chartered Business Valuator (CBV) is a professional designation for business valuation specialists. It is offered by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Business Valuators (CICBV).
What Is a Butterfly Spread?  

The term butterfly spread refers to an options strategy that combines bull and bear spreads with a fixed risk and capped profit. These spreads are intended as a market-neutral strategy and pay off the most if the underlying asset does not move prior to option expiration. They involve either four calls, four puts, or a combination of puts and calls with three strike prices.





Key Takeaways

A butterfly spread is an options strategy that combines both bull and bear spreads.These are neutral strategies that come with a fixed risk and capped profits and losses.Butterfly spreads pay off the most if the underlying asset doesn't move before the option expires.These spreads use four options and three different strike prices.The upper and lower strike prices are equal distance from the middle, or at-the-money, strike price.






   Understanding Butterfly Spreads  

Butterfly spreads are strategies used by options traders. Remember that an option is a financial instrument that is based on the value of an underlying asset, such as a stock or a commodity. Options contracts allow buyers to buy or sell the underlying asset by a specific expiration or exercise date.



As noted above, a butterfly spread combines both a bull and bear spread. This is a neutral strategy that uses four options contracts with the same expiration but three different strike prices:



A higher strike price
An at-the-money strike price
A lower strike price



The options with the higher and lower strike prices are the same distance from the at-the-money options. If the at-the-money options have a strike price of $60, the upper and lower options should have strike prices equal dollar amounts above and below $60. At $55 and $65, for example, as these strikes are both $5 away from $60.



Puts or calls can be used for a butterfly spread. Combining the options in various ways will create different types of butterfly spreads, each designed to either profit from volatility or low volatility.






A spread strategy can be characterized by its payoff or the visualizations of its profit-loss profile.


   Types of Butterfly Spreads  
  Long Call Butterfly Spread  

The long butterfly call spread is created by buying one in-the-money call option with a low strike price, writing two at-the-money call options, and buying one out-of-the-money call option with a higher strike price. Net debt is created when entering the trade.



The maximum profit is achieved if the price of the underlying at expiration is the same as the written calls. The max profit is equal to the strike of the written option, less the strike of the lower call, premiums, and commissions paid. The maximum loss is the initial cost of the premiums paid, plus commissions.


  Short Call Butterfly Spread  

The short butterfly spread is created by selling one in-the-money call option with a lower strike price, buying two at-the-money call options, and selling an out-of-the-money call option at a higher strike price. A net credit is created when entering the position. This position maximizes its profit if the price of the underlying is above or the upper strike or below the lower strike at expiry.



The maximum profit is equal to the initial premium received, less the price of commissions. The maximum loss is the strike price of the bought call minus the lower strike price, less the premiums received.


  Long Put Butterfly Spread  

The long put butterfly spread is created by buying one put with a lower strike price, selling two at-the-money puts, and buying a put with a higher strike price. Net debt is created when entering the position. Like the long call butterfly, this position has a maximum profit when the underlying stays at the strike price of the middle options.



The maximum profit is equal to the higher strike price minus the strike of the sold put, less the premium paid. The maximum loss of the trade is limited to the initial premiums and commissions paid.


  Short Put Butterfly Spread  

The short put butterfly spread is created by writing one out-of-the-money put option with a low strike price, buying two at-the-money puts, and writing an in-the-money put option at a higher strike price. This strategy realizes its maximum profit if the price of the underlying is above the upper strike or below the lower strike price at expiration.



The maximum profit for the strategy is the premiums received. The maximum loss is the higher strike price minus the strike of the bought put, less the premiums received.


  Iron Butterfly Spread  

The iron butterfly spread is created by buying an out-of-the-money put option with a lower strike price, writing an at-the-money put option, writing an at-the-money call option, and buying an out-of-the-money call option with a higher strike price. The result is a trade with a net credit that's best suited for lower volatility scenarios. The maximum profit occurs if the underlying stays at the middle strike price.



The maximum profit is the premiums received. The maximum loss is the strike price of the bought call minus the strike price of the written call, less the premiums received.


  Reverse Iron Butterfly Spread  

The reverse iron butterfly spread is created by writing an out-of-the-money put at a lower strike price, buying an at-the-money put, buying an at-the-money call, and writing an out-of-the-money call at a higher strike price. This creates a net debit trade that's best suited for high-volatility scenarios. Maximum profit occurs when the price of the underlying moves above or below the upper or lower strike prices.



The strategy's risk is limited to the premium paid to attain the position. The maximum profit is the strike price of the written call minus the strike of the bought call, less the premiums paid.


   Example of a Long Call Butterfly Spread  

Let's say Verizon (VZ) stock trades at $60. An investor believes it will not move significantly over the next several months. They choose to implement a long call butterfly spread to potentially profit if the price stays where it is. The investor writes two call options on Verizon at a strike price of $60, and also buys two additional calls at $55 and $65.



In this scenario, the investor makes the maximum profit if Verizon stock is priced at $60 at expiration. If Verizon is below $55 at expiration, or above $65, the investor realizes their maximum loss, which is the cost of buying the two wing call options (the higher and lower strike) reduced by the proceeds of selling the two middle strike options.



If the underlying asset is priced between $55 and $65, a loss or profit may occur. But the premium paid to enter the position is key. Assume that it costs $2.50 to enter the position. Based on that, if Verizon is priced anywhere below $60 minus $2.50, the position would experience a loss. The same holds true if the underlying asset is priced at $60 plus $2.50 at expiration. In this scenario, the position profits if the underlying asset's price falls between $57.50 and $62.50 at expiration.



This scenario does not include the cost of commissions, which can add up when trading multiple options.




What Are the Characteristics of a Butterfly Spread?
Butterfly spreads use four option contracts with the same expiration but three different strike prices. A higher strike price, an at-the-money strike price, and a lower strike price. The options with the higher and lower strike prices are the same distance from the at-the-money options. Each type of butterfly has a maximum profit and a maximum loss.




How Is a Long Call Butterfly Spread Constructed?
The long call butterfly spread is created by buying a one in-the-money call option with a low strike price, writing (selling) two at-the-money call options, and buying one out-of-the-money call option with a higher strike price. Net debt is created when you enter the trade.The maximum profit is achieved if the price of the underlying asset at expiration is the same as the written calls. The max profit is equal to the strike of the written option, less the strike of the lower call, premiums, and commissions paid. The maximum loss is the initial cost of the premiums paid, plus commissions.




How Is a Long Put Butterfly Spread Constructed?
The long put butterfly spread is created by buying one out-of-the-money put option with a low strike price, selling (writing) two at-the-money put options, and buying one in-the-money put option with a higher strike price. Net debt is created when entering the position. Like the long call butterfly, this position has a maximum profit when the underlying asset stays at the strike price of the middle options.The maximum profit is equal to the higher strike price minus the strike of the sold put, less the premium paid. The maximum loss of the trade is limited to the initial premiums and commissions paid.
What Is Buy and Hold?  

Buy and hold is a passive investment strategy in which an investor buys stocks (or other types of securities such as ETFs) and holds them for a long period regardless of fluctuations in the market. An investor who uses a buy-and-hold strategy actively selects investments but has no concern for short-term price movements and technical indicators. Many legendary investors such as Warren Buffett and Jack Bogle praise the buy-and-hold approach as ideal for individuals seeking healthy long-term returns.





Key Takeaways

Buy and hold is a long-term passive strategy where investors keep a relatively stable portfolio over time, regardless of short-term fluctuations.Buy and hold investors tend to outperform active management, on average, over longer time horizons and after fees, and they can typically defer capital gains taxes.Critics, however, argue that buy-and-hold investors may not sell at optimal times.


   How Buy and Hold Works  

Conventional investing wisdom shows that with a long time horizon, equities render a higher return than other asset classes such as bonds. There is, however, some debate over whether a buy-and-hold strategy is superior to an active investing strategy. Both sides have valid arguments, but a buy-and-hold strategy has tax benefits because the investor can defer capital gains taxes on long-term investments.



To purchase shares of common stock is to take ownership of a company. Ownership has its privileges, which include voting rights and a stake in corporate profits as the company grows. Shareholders function as direct decision makers with their number of votes being equal to the number of shares they hold. Shareholders vote on critical issues, such as mergers and acquisitions, and elect directors to the board. Activist investors with substantial holdings wield considerable influence over management often seeking to gain representation on the board of directors.



Recognizing that change takes time, committed shareholders adopt buy and hold strategies. Rather than treating ownership as a short-term vehicle for profit in the mode of a day trader, buy-and-hold investors keep shares through the bull and bear markets. Equity owners thus bear the ultimate risk of failure or the supreme reward of substantial appreciation.






Buy and hold is often also called position trading.


   Active Versus Passive Management  

The debate over passive versus active management styles persists. A buy-and-hold investor reflects a passive management style. In the case of a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund, indexed portfolios mirror that of a common benchmark.



As indices rebalance and weightings increase relative to market capitalization, turnover rates, which are often under 5% among passive funds (such as an S&P 500 Index portfolio), remain ultra-low as managers focus on issues across the broad market. Stocks are held for as long as they remain components of the indices.






Even though you hold the securities you buy for the long-term, you still need to consider price fluctuations and pay attention to their performance.


   Real World Example of Buy and Hold  

An example of a buy-and-hold strategy that would have worked quite well is the purchase of Apple (AAPL) stock. If an investor had bought 100 shares at its closing price of $18 per share in January 2008 and held onto the stock until January 2019, the stock climbed to $157 per share. That’s a return of nearly 900% in just over 10 years.



Those arguing against using a long-term strategy claim that investors forsake gains by riding out volatility rather than locking in gains and miss out on timing the market. There are some professionals who regularly succeed with short-term trading strategies, but the risks can be higher. Investment success is also realized by loyalty, commitment to ownership and the simple pursuit of standing pat or not moving from a chosen position.
What Is a Buy and Sell Agreement?  

A buy and sell agreement (or buy-sell agreement) is a legally binding contract that stipulates how a partner's share of a business may be reassigned if that partner dies or otherwise leaves the business. Most often, the buy and sell agreement stipulates that the available share be sold to the remaining partners or to the partnership. Buy-sell agreements often use life insurance policies to fund the potential buyout in the event of a partner's death.



A buy and sell agreement may also be called a buyout agreement, a business will, or a business prenup.





Key Takeaways

Buy and sell agreements stipulate how a partner's share of a business may be transferred in the event of the partner's death or departure.Buy and sell agreements may also establish a method for determining the value of a business.The most common buy and sell agreements are cross-purchase, and entity-purchase (redemption); some agreements will combine the two.Cross-purchase agreements allow remaining owners to buy the interests of a deceased or selling owner.Redemption agreements require the business entity to buy the interests of the selling owner.


   How a Buy and Sell Agreement Works  

Buy and sell agreements are commonly used by sole proprietorships, partnerships, and closed corporations in an attempt to smooth transitions in ownership when a partner dies, retires, or decides to exit the business.



The buy and sell agreement requires that the business share be sold to the company or the remaining members of the business according to a predetermined formula. In the case of the death of a partner, the estate must agree to sell. To fund the purchase of the shares by the surviving partners, life insurance policies are taken out reciprocally by each partner on the lives of the others, which can be paid for by the company as a business expense, where the partners are the named beneficiaries.



Upon the death of a partner, the life insurance death benefit will be paid out to the remaining partners, who will use the funds to purchase the deceased's shares from their estate, ensuring continuity of the business and its ownership structure. Having a buy-sell agreement avoids costly battles for control with surviving spouses or children and having to use probate court.


   Types of Buy-Sell Agreements  

There are two common forms of buy-sell agreements:



In a cross-purchase agreement, the remaining owners or partners purchase the share of the business that is for sale.
In an entity-purchase agreement (also known as a redemption agreement), the business entity itself buys the deceased's share of the business.



Some partners also opt for a mix of the two, with some portions available for purchase by individual partners and the remainder bought by the partnership.



A wait-and-see agreement combines elements from each of these two, where neither the partners nor the entity is explicitly named. At the time when it becomes necessary, the agreement will become either one or the other depending on what's best for business continuity.



When a sole proprietor dies, a key employee may be designated as the buyer or successor.






Partners should work with both an attorney and a certified public accountant when crafting a buy and sell agreement, along with a life insurance professional.


   Key Considerations in Buy-Sell Agreements  

Buy and sell agreements are designed to help partners manage potentially difficult situations in ways that protect the business and their own personal and family interests.



For example, the agreement can restrict owners from selling their interests to outside investors without approval from the remaining owners. Similar protection can be provided in the event of a partner's death.



A typical agreement might stipulate that a deceased partner's interest be sold back to the business or remaining owners. This prevents the estate from selling the interest to an outsider.



In addition to controlling ownership of the business, buy and sell agreements spell out the means to be used in assessing the value of a partner's share. This can have uses outside the question of buying and selling shares. For example, if there is a dispute among owners about the value of the company or of a partner's interest, the valuation methods included in the buy and sell agreement would be used.





Buy-Sell Agreement Templates

There are several online resources that offer low-cost or free templates for drawing up a buy-sell agreement. which can be especially useful for new or small companies. As your business grows or if it has a large number of partners from the onset, it is better to have a lawyer draft the document.




How Do You Establish a Buy and Sell Agreement?
A buy-sell agreement is a contract that sets out how a partner's shares will be obtained by the remaining partners or owners of a firm in case of their death or departure. This is usually done with the aid of a knowledgeable attorney.In order to ensure that funds are available, partners in business commonly purchase life insurance policies on the other partners. In the event of a death, the proceeds from the policy will be used towards the purchase of the deceased's business interest. This part of the agreement should be done through a life insurance agent with experience in this type of agreement.




What Should Be Included in a Buy and Sell Agreement?
The following pieces of information should be spelled out in a buy and sell agreement:a list of triggering buyout events, including death, permanent disability, bankruptcy or retirement, etc.a list of partners or owners involved and their current equity stakesa recent valuation of the company's overall equitya funding instrument, such as life insurance policiestax and estate planning considerations for the individual partners and surviving beneficiaries




What Is the Benefit of a Buy and Sell Agreement?
A buy and sell agreement assures a smooth transition of ownership and business continuity in the event of a departure of a partner or large equity owner. The agreement is a legally-binding contract that establishes how the departing owners' shares will be obtained by the remaining partners. Without such an agreement, there can be legal battles and contestation. For instance, if a partner dies without an agreement, their shares may be passed automatically to their spouse, who may decide to keep them. Or, the spouse may want to sell them, but the remaining partners do not have the funds available to buy the shares.


   The Bottom Line  

Business continuity is important, especially when there are multiple partners or important equity holders involved in the running of a business. A buy and sell agreement (buy-sell agreement) is a legal remedy for establishing a clear plan of how to distribute the shares of a departed or deceased partner to the remaining ones. In the case of a death, life insurance policies are used to fund the buyout of shares from the deceased's estate.
What Is a Buy-In?  

A buy-in in the financial markets is an occurrence in which an investor is forced to repurchase shares of security because the seller of the original shares did not deliver the securities in a timely fashion or did not deliver them at all.



A buy-in can also be a reference to a person or entity buying shares or a stake in a company or other holding. In psychological terms, the buy-in is the process of someone getting on board with an idea or concept that is not their own but nonetheless appeals to them.





Key Takeaways

A buy-in is a reference to the repurchasing of shares by an investor because the original seller failed to deliver the shares as promised.A buy-in can also be an agreement to purchase shares of something, in some cases to buy a stake in a company that also has other owners.Beyond the financial markets, a buy-in is an act of agreeing with or accepting the terms that someone is offering, such as in a job or organization.In a forced buy-in, shares are repurchased to cover an open short position, as opposed to a traditional buy-in.


   Understanding Buy-Ins  

Those who fail to deliver the securities as promised are generally notified with a buy-in notice. A buyer will send notice to exchange officials. As a result, officials will usually notify the seller of their delivery failure. The stock exchange (e.g., NASDAQ or NYSE) supports the investor in buying the stocks a second time from another seller. Typically, the original seller must make up any price difference between the original price of the stock and the second purchase price of the stock by the buyer.



Failure to answer the buy-in notice results in a broker buying the securities and delivering them on the client’s behalf. The client is then required to pay back the broker at a pre-determined price.


   The Difference Between a Buy-In and a Forced Buy-In  

The difference between a traditional and forced buy-in is that in a forced buy-in, shares are repurchased to cover an open short position. A forced buy-in occurs in a short seller’s account when the original lender of the shares recalls them. This can also occur when the broker is no longer able to borrow shares for the shorted position. In some cases, an account holder might not be notified before a forced buy-in. A forced buy-in is the opposite of forced selling or forced liquidation.


   Settlement of Securities  

Securities transactions typically settle in T+2 business days, following the transaction (T=0), which applies to the majority of securities, such as stocks and corporate bonds. Some transactions have a settlement of T+1 business day while others can even settle on the same day as the trade date. Same-day transactions are called cash trades.



In the above transactions, the trades will settle according to their respective settlement dates. However, if the securities fail to be delivered, a buy-in will occur.
What Is Buy-In Management Buyout (BIMBO)?  

A Buy-In Management BuyOut (BIMBO) is a form of a leveraged buyout (LBO) that incorporates characteristics of both a management buyout (MBO) along with a management buy-in (MBI).



A BIMBO occurs when existing management along with outside managers decide to buy out a company. The existing management represents the buyout portion while the outside managers represent the buy-in portion.





Key Takeaways

A buy-in management buyout (BIMBO) occurs when an outside management team joins a company (buying-in) while also buying out the existing management team.This form of leveraged buyout (LBO) is used to streamline the transition from one owner to the next with little interruption in business operations.Like all LBOs, there are still risks of disruption, conflicts, and reduced performance - but these may be minimized as the new managers have bought in as owners as well.


   Understanding Buy-In Management Buyout (BIMBO)  

Buy-In Management Buyout (BIMBO) is a term that originated in Europe to describe a type of LBO that combines new external management with internal management to refresh the direction of the company and streamline operations. A leveraged buyout is the acquisition of a company using a significant amount of borrowed money to meet the cost of acquisition. The assets of the company being acquired are often used as collateral for these loans, along with the assets of the acquiring company.



This option provides advantages of buy-in and buyout. The transfer will be made much more efficiently and without disruption, because the existing members of management are already familiar with the business. This management buyout is complemented with management buy-in, which results in the influx of leaders with expertise to fill in areas of need, be it in a new product or service under development, marketing, operations management, or finance.



A management buy-in is a corporate action in which an outside manager or management team purchases a controlling ownership stake in an outside company and replaces its existing management team. A management buyout is a transaction where a company’s existing management team purchases the assets and operations of the business they manage.


   Taking Care of a Buy-In Management Buyout  

New and existing managers must get along for the BIMBO to work. Energized new managers may have novel ideas that they wish to implement right away, while existing managers may fall into a turf-protection mode. Employees may take sides. Conflicts are inevitable, as they are in all organizations, but if they become too pronounced or distracting the business may not run as envisioned before the transaction took place.



An LBO involves an increase of debt on the balance sheet that must be managed responsibly by the management team. The risk is that debt service may not be handled smoothly, causing some financial stress in the new company. However, since each of the managers is now an owner of the company, each has every incentive to behave like owners, which means making rational decisions to increase the odds of success.
What Is a Buy Limit Order?  

A buy limit order is an order to purchase an asset at or below a specified price, allowing traders to control how much they pay. By using a limit order to make a purchase, the investor is guaranteed to pay that price or less.



While the price is guaranteed, the order being filled is not. After all, a buy limit order won't be executed unless the asking price is at or below the specified limit price. If the asset does not reach the specified price, the order is not filled and the investor may miss out on the trading opportunity. Said another way, by using a buy limit order the investor is guaranteed to pay the buy limit order price or better, but it is not guaranteed that the order will be filled.



If an investor expects the price of an asset to decline, then a buy limit order is a reasonable order to use. If the investor doesn't mind paying the current price, or higher, if the asset starts to move up, then a market order to buy stop limit order is the better bet.





Key Takeaways

A buy limit order is an order to purchase an asset at or below a specified maximum price level.A buy limit, however, is not guaranteed to be filled if the price does not reach the limit price or moves too quickly through the price.Buy limits control costs but can result in missed opportunities in fast-moving market conditions.All order types are useful and have their own advantages and disadvantages.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Benefits of a Buy Limit Order  

A buy limit order ensures the buyer does not get a worse price than they expect. Buy limit orders provide investors and traders with a means of precisely entering a position. For example, a buy limit order could be placed at $2.40 when a stock is trading at $2.45. If the price dips to $2.40, the order is automatically executed. It will not be executed until the price drops to $2.40 or below.



Another advantage of a buy limit order is the possibility of price improvement when a stock gaps from one day to the next. If the trader places a buy order at $2.40 and the order is not triggered during the trading day, as long as that order remains in place it could benefit from a gap down. If the price opens the next day at $2.20, the trader will get the shares at $2.20 as that was the first price available at or below $2.40. While the trader is paying a lower price than expected, they may want to consider why the price gapped down so aggressively, and if they still want to own the shares.



Unlike a market order in which the trader buys at the current offer price, whatever that may be, a buy limit order is placed on a broker’s order book at a specified price. The order signifies that the trader is willing to buy a specific number of shares of the stock at the specified limit price. As the asset drops toward the limit price, the trade is executed if a seller is willing to sell at the buy order price.


  Special Considerations  

Since a buy limit sits on the book signifying that the trader wants to buy at that price, the order will be bid, usually below the current market price of the asset. If the price moves down to the buy limit price, and a seller transacts with the order (the buy limit order is filled), the investor will have bought at the bid, and thus avoided paying the spread. This may be helpful for day traders who seek to capture small and quick profits. For large institutional investors who take very large positions in a stock, incremental limit orders at various price levels are used in an attempt to achieve the best possible average price for the order as a whole.



Buy limit orders are also useful in volatile markets. Assume a trader wants to buy a stock but knows the stock has been moving wildly from day to day. They could place a market buy order, which takes the first available price, or they could use a buy limit order (or a buy stop order). Assume the stock closed yesterday at $10. The investor could place a buy limit at $10, assuring they won't pay more than that. If the stock opens the next day at $11, they won't be filled on the order, but they have also saved themselves from paying more than they wanted to.


   Disadvantages of a Buy Limit Order  

A buy limit order does not guarantee execution. Execution only occurs when the asset's price trades down to the limit price and a sell order transacts with the buy limit order. The asset trading at the buy limit order price isn't enough. The trader may have 100 shares posted to buy at that price, but there may be thousands of shares ahead of them also wanting to buy at that price. Therefore, the price will often need to completely clear the buy limit order price level in order for the buy limit order to fill. The earlier the order is put in the earlier in the queue the order will be at that price, and the greater the chance the order will have of being filled if the asset trades at the buy limit price.



Buy limit orders can also result in a missed opportunity. The price of the asset has to trade at the buy limit price or lower, but if it doesn't the trader doesn't get into their trade. Controlling costs and the amount paid for an asset is important, but so is seizing an opportunity. When an asset is quickly rising, it may not pull back to the buy limit price specified before roaring higher. Since the trader's goal was to catch a move higher, they missed out by placing an order that was unlikely to be executed. If the trader wants to get in, at any cost, they could use a market order. If they don't mind paying a higher price yet want to control how much they pay, a buy stop-limit order is effective.



Some brokers charge a higher commission for a buy limit order than for a market order. This is largely an outdated practice, though, as most brokers charge either a flat fee or no fee per order, or charge based on the number of shares traded (or dollar amount), and don't charge based on order type.


   Buy Limit Order Example  

Apple stock is trading at a $125.25 bid and a $125.26 offer when an investor decides they want to add Apple to their portfolio. They have several choices in terms of order types. They could use a market order and buy the stock at $125.26 (assuming the offer stays the same, and there are enough shares at that price to fill the market buy order), or they could use a buy limit at any price of $125.25 or below.



Maybe the trader believes the price will fall slightly over the next several weeks, so they place a buy limit order at $121. If Apple stock trades down to $121 (ideally $120.99 to assure the order is filled), then the investor will own shares at $121, which means significant savings from the $125.25/26 price the investor first saw.



The price may not drop to $121, though. Instead, it may move from a $125.25 bid up to $126, then $127, then $140 over the next several weeks. The price rise the investor wanted to participate in has been missed because their buy limit order at $121 was never executed.




How Do You Place a Buy Limit Order?
To place a buy limit order, you will first need to determine your limit price for the security you want to buy. The limit price is the maximum amount you are willing to pay to buy the security. If your order is triggered, it will be filled at your limit price or lower.You will also need to decide when your buy limit order will expire. You can choose to allow your order to expire at the end of the trading day if it is not filled. Alternatively, you can choose to place your order as good 'til canceled (GTC). Your order will remain open until it is filled or you decide to cancel it. Your brokerage may limit the time you can keep a GTC order open (usually up to 90 days).




What Is a Buy Stop-Limit Order?
A buy stop-limit order combines features of a stop with a limit order. To place a buy stop-limit order, you need to decide on two price points. The first price point is the stop, which is the start of the trade's specified target price. The second price point is the limit price, which is the outside limit of the trade's price target. You must also set a time frame during which your trade is considered executable.After your stop price has been reached, your stop-limit order converts to a limit order. Your limit order will then be executed at your specified price or better. The main benefit of a buy stop-limit order is that it enables traders to better control the price at which they buy a security.




What Happens If a Buy Limit Order Is Not Executed?
If a buy limit order is not executed, it will expire unfilled. The order could expire at the end of the trading day or, in the case of a good 'til canceled (GTC) order, it will expire once the trader cancels it. One of the benefits of a buy limit order is that the investor is guaranteed to pay a specified price or less to purchase a security. A downside, however, is that the investor is not guaranteed that their order will be executed.
What Is the Buy-Side?  

The financial institutions of a free-market economy include a segment called the buy-side: firms that purchase investment securities. These include insurance firms, mutual funds, hedge funds, and pension funds, that buy securities for their own accounts or for investors with the goal of generating a return.



Opposite of the buy-side professional is the sell-side. Unlike the buy-side, sell-side efforts do not include making a direct investment. Instead, they assist the investing market with all activities related to the sale of securities to the buy-side, such as underwriting for initial public offerings (IPOs), providing clearing services, and generating research material and analysis.



Jointly, these two sides (buy and sell) make up the main activities of financial markets.





Key Takeaways

The buy-side is a segment of financial markets made up of investing institutions that buy securities for money-management purposes.The sell-side is the opposite of the buy-side, providing only investment recommendations and services to facilitate the purchasing of securities by the buy-side.A business involved in buy-side activities will purchase stocks, bonds, and other financial products based on the needs and strategy of their company's or client's portfolio.Common buy-side institutions include hedge funds, pension funds, and mutual funds.


   Understanding the Buy-Side  

A business involved in buy-side activities will purchase stocks, bonds, and other financial products based on the needs and strategy of their company's or client's portfolio. The buy-side activity takes place in many settings not limited to the financial institutions mentioned above. They also include trusts, equity funds, and high-net-worth individuals.



The whole point of buy-side investing is to create value for a firm's clients. They do this by identifying and purchasing underpriced assets that they believe will appreciate over time. Since the buy-side involves buying large blocks of market securities, the most prestigious companies often have a great deal of market power. These market titans are also closely watched by investors and the media. 





$8.68 trillion

The value of BlackRock's assets under management (AUM) as of Dec. 31, 2020. BlackRock is the largest investment manager in the world in terms of assets.﻿﻿



Firms like BlackRock and Vanguard can significantly sway market prices as they make large-scale investments in single names. However, these investments are typically not disclosed in real-time and can be somewhat ghost-like for market traders. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) 13F filing requires public disclosure by buy-side managers for all holdings bought and sold every quarter.


   Following Buy-Side Investing  

The quarterly 13F filing is a recommended source for all types of investors in following some of the market’s top investments and investors. Warren Buffett and his firm, Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A/B), are examples of how following buy-side investors can guide investment approaches. 



Further, many investors will look at these larger investors' holdings, and changes in those holdings, in particular securities as a consideration for making a transaction themselves. This data is available through several online resources.


   Benefits of the Buy-Side  

Buy-side investors have many advantages over other traders. They can place large-lot transactions that minimize trading costs. They also have access to a very broad array of internal trading resources that helps them to analyze, identify, and act on investment opportunities in real-time.






The buy-side analyst will also follow the regulations of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).



While buy-side investors are required to disclose their holdings in a 13F, this information is only available quarterly. Overall, it can generally be advantageous for buy-side analysts and investment firms to keep their investment research and watch lists proprietary. The high level of competition in the buy-side market and the nature of its business typically results in privacy around all trading ideas for the most optimal trading advantages.


   Duties of a Buy-Side Analyst  

The buy-side analyst performs a pivotal role in the buy-side exchange. Buy-side analysts regularly work in non-brokerage firms including pension and mutual fund providers. These analysts provide recommendations based on research meant only for the use of these large fund providers. Individual investors may see sell-side recommendations, but buy-side work is behind the scenes at the big firms, and research strategies and the results of their analysis are kept private.



Analysts employed on the buy-side engage in financial research of companies and investment strategy development, which typically involves in-depth research and financial modeling. They may also talk directly to companies in which they have an investment interest. Buy-side analysts primarily are looking for companies that are a good fit for a portfolio’s strategy based on certain investing parameters and companies that will generate the highest returns over time.



Since the roles of buy-side and sell-side analysts are distinctly different, some firms may deploy certain policies to ensure that research efforts are divided. At firms with both buy-side and sell-side analysts, a "Chinese Wall" can be constructed to separate the two departments, which usually entails procedures and security policies that prevent interactions between the two units.


   Example of the Buy-Side  

John Smith works for a large investment bank investing his company's money in the stock market, utilizing a strategy he created himself. Over 10 years his strategy has done extremely well, outperforming the market by 10%. He decides to leave his firm and start his own investment management firm and invest money for high-net-worth individuals; in essence, Mr. Smith is creating a hedge fund.



He spends time marketing his firm based on his strategy's returns over the past 10 years and is able to raise $10 million in capital from a variety of investors. He starts investing this capital and buys a variety of securities, including stocks, bonds, futures, and options, all aligning with his strategy. Mr. Smith's firm and his actions of buying these securities are an example of the buy-side.
What is a Buy Stop Order  

A buy stop order instructs a broker to purchase a security when it reaches a pre-specified price. Once the price hits that level, the buy stop becomes either a limit or a market order, fillable at the next available price.



This type of stop order can apply to stocks, derivatives, forex or a variety of other tradable instruments. The buy stop order can serve a variety of purposes with the underlying assumption that a share price that climbs to a certain height will continue to rise.





Key Takeaways

A buy stop order is an order to purchase a security only once the price of the security reaches the specified stop price.The stop price is entered at a level, or strike, set above the current market price.It is a strategy to profit from an upward movement in a stock’s price by placing an order in advance.Buy stop orders can also be used to protect against unlimited losses of an uncovered short position.


   Basics of a Buy Stop Order  

A buy stop order is most commonly thought of as a tool to protect against the potentially unlimited losses of an uncovered short position. An investor is willing to open that short position to place a bet that the security will decline in price. If that happens, the investor can buy the cheaper shares and profit the difference between the short sale and the purchase of a long position. The investor can protect against a rise in share price buy placing a buy stop order to cover the short position at a price that limits losses. When used to resolve a short position, the buy stop is often referred to as a stop loss order.



The short seller can place their buy stop at a stop price, or strike price either lower or higher than the point at which they opened their short position. If the price has declined significantly and the investor is seeking to protect their profitable position against the subsequent upward movement, they can place the buy stop below the original opening price. An investor looking only to protect against catastrophic short position loss from significant upward movement will open a buy stop order above the original short sale price.


   Buy Stop Orders for Bulls  

The strategies described above use the buy stop to protect against bullish movement in a security. Another, lesser-known, strategy uses the buy stop to profit from anticipated upward movement in share price. Technical analysts often refer to levels of resistance and support for a stock. The price may go up and down, but it is bracketed at the high end by resistance and by support on the low end. These can also be referred to as a price ceiling and a price floor. Some investors, however, anticipate that a stock that does eventually climb above the line of resistance, in what is known as a breakout, will continue to climb. A buy stop order can be very useful to profit from this phenomenon. The investor will open a buy stop order just above the line of resistance to capture the profits available once a breakout has occurred. A stop loss order can protect against subsequent decline in share price.


   Example of a Buy Stop Order  

Consider the price movement of a stock ABC that is poised to break out of its trading range of between $9 and $10. Let’s a say a trader bets on a price increase beyond that range for ABC and places a buy stop order at $10.20. Once the stock hits that price, the order becomes a market order and the trading system purchases stock at the next available price.



The same type order can be used to cover short positions. In the above scenario, assume that the trader has a large short position on ABC, meaning that she is betting on a future decline in its price. To hedge against the risk of the stock’s movement in the opposite direction i.e., an increase of its price, the trader places a buy stop order that triggers a buy position if ABC’s price increase. Thus, even if the stock moves in the opposite direction, the trader stands to offset her losses.
What Is Buy the Dips?  

"Buy the dips" means purchasing an asset after it has dropped in price. The belief here is that the new lower price represents a bargain as the "dip" is only a short-term blip and the asset, with time, is likely to bounce back and increase in value.





Key Takeaways

Buying the dips refers to going long an asset or security after its price has experienced a short-term decline, in repeated fashion.Buying the dips can be profitable in long-term uptrends, but unprofitable or tougher during secular downtrends.Dip buying can lower one's average cost of owning a position, but the risk and reward of dip-buying should be constantly evaluated.


   Understanding Buy the Dips  

"Buy the dips" is a common phrase investors and traders hear after an asset has declined in price in the short-term. After an asset's price drops from a higher level, some traders and investors view this as an advantageous time to buy or add to an existing position. The concept of buying dips is based on the theory of price waves. When an investor buys an asset after a drop, they are buying at a lower price, hoping to profit if the market rebounds.



Buying the dips has several contexts and different odds of working out profitably, depending on the situation. Some traders say they are "buying the dips" if an asset drops within an otherwise long-term uptrend. They hope the uptrend will resume after the drop.



Others use the phrase when no secular uptrend is present, but they believe an uptrend may occur in the future. Therefore, they are buying when the price drops in order to profit from some potential future price rise.



If an investor is already long and buys on the dips, they are said to be averaging down, an investing strategy that involves purchasing additional shares after the price has dropped further, resulting in a lower net average price. If, however, dip-buying does not later see an upturn, it is said to be adding to a loser.


   Limitations of Buy the Dips  

Like all trading strategies, buying the dips does not guarantee profits. An asset can drop for many reasons, including changes to its underlying value. Just because the price is cheaper than before doesn't necessarily mean the asset represents good value.



The problem is that the average investor has very little ability to distinguish between a temporary drop in price and a warning signal that prices are about to go much lower. While there may be unrecognized intrinsic value, buying additional shares simply to lower an average cost of ownership may not be a good reason to increase the percentage of the investor's portfolio exposed to the price action of that one stock. Proponents of the technique view averaging down as a cost-effective approach to wealth accumulation; opponents view it as a recipe for disaster.



A stock that falls from $10 to $8 might be a good buying opportunity, and it might not be. There could be good reasons why the stock dropped, such as a change in earnings, dismal growth prospects, a change in management, poor economic conditions, loss of a contract, and so forth. It may continue to drop—all the way to $0 if the situation is bad enough.






BTFD, or "buy the f****** dip", is an aggressive strategy of dip-buying encouraged by traders in hot markets, such as with Bitcoin.


   Managing Risk When Buying the Dip  

All trading strategies and investment methodologies should have some form of risk control. When buying an asset after it has fallen, many traders and investors will establish a price for controlling their risk. For example, if a stock falls from $10 to $8, the trader may decide to cut their losses if the stock reaches $7. They are assuming the stock will go higher from $8, which is why they buying, but they also want to limit their losses if they are wrong and the asset keeps dropping.



Buying the dips tends to work better with assets that are in uptrends. Dips, also called pullbacks, are a regular part of an uptrend. As long as the price is making higher lows (on pullbacks or dips) and higher highs on the ensuing trending move, the uptrend is intact.



Once the price starts making lower lows, the price has entered a downtrend. The price will get cheaper and cheaper as each dip is followed by lower prices. Most traders don't want to hold onto a losing asset and avoid buying the dips during a downtrend. Buying dips in downtrends, however, may be suitable for some long-term investors who see value in the low prices.


   An Example of Buying the Dip  

Consider the 2007-08 financial crisis. During that time, the stocks of many mortgage and financial companies plummeted. Bear Stearns and New Century Mortgage were among the hardest hit. An investor who routinely practiced a "buy the dips" philosophy would have grabbed up as much of these stocks as possible, assuming prices would eventually revert to pre-dip levels.



This, of course, never happened. Both companies shut their doors after losing significant share value. Shares of New Century Mortgage dropped so low that the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) suspended trading. Investors who thought the $55-per-share stock was a bargain at $45 would have found themselves with steep losses just a few weeks later when it dropped below a dollar per share.



In contrast, between 2009 and 2020 shares of Apple (AAPL) went from about $3 to more than $120 (split-adjusted).﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ Buying the dips during that period would have rewarded the investor handsomely.
What Is Buy to Cover?  

Buy to cover refers to a buy order made on a stock or other listed security to close out an existing short position. A short sale involves selling shares of a company that an investor does not own, as the shares are borrowed from a broker but need to be repaid at some point. 





Key Takeaways

Buy to cover refers to a buy trade order that closes a trader's short position.Short positions are borrowed from a broker and a buy to cover allows the short positions to be "covered" and returned to the original lender.The trade is made on the belief that a stock's price will decline, so shares are sold at a higher price and then bought back at a lower price.Buy to cover orders are generally margin trades.


   Understanding Buy to Cover  

A buy to cover order of purchasing an equal number of shares to those borrowed, "covers" the short sale and allows the shares to be returned to the original lender, typically the investor's own broker-dealer, who may have had to borrow the shares from a third party.



A short seller bets on a stock price going down and seeks to buy the shares back at a lower price than the original short sale price. The short seller must pay each margin call and repurchase the shares to return them to the lender.



Specifically, when the stock begins to rise above the price at which the shares were shorted, the short seller’s broker may require that the seller execute a buy to cover order as part of a margin call. To prevent this from happening, the short seller should always keep enough buying power in their brokerage account to make any needed "buy to cover" trades before the market price of the stock triggers a margin call.


   Buy to Cover and Margin Trades  

Investors can make cash transactions when buying and selling stocks, meaning they can buy with cash in their own brokerage accounts and sell what they have previously bought. Alternatively, investors can buy and sell on margin with funds and securities borrowed from their brokers. Thus, a short sale is inherently a margin trade, as investors are selling something they do not already own.



Trading on margin is riskier for investors than using cash or their own securities because of potential losses from margin calls. Investors receive margin calls when the market value of the underlying security is moving against the positions they have taken in margin trades, namely the decline of security values when buying on margin, and the rise of security values when selling short. Investors must satisfy margin calls by depositing additional cash or making relevant buy or sell trades to make up for any unfavorable changes in the value of the underlying securities.



When an investor is selling short and the market value of the underlying security has risen above the short-selling price, the proceeds from the earlier short sale would be less than what is needed to buy it back. This would result in a losing position for the investor. If the market value of the security continues to rise, the investor would have to pay increasingly more to buy back the security. If the investor does not expect the security to fall below the original short-selling price in the near term, they should consider covering the short position sooner than later.


   Example of Buy to Cover  

Suppose a trader opens a short position in stock ABC. After their research, they believe ABC's stock price, which is trading at $100 currently, will fall in the coming months because the company's financials are signaling that the company is in distress. To profit from their thesis, the trader borrows 100 shares of ABC from a broker and sells them in the open market at the current price of $100.



Subsequently, ABC's stock falls to $90 and the trader places a buy to cover order to buy ABC's shares at the new price and return the 100 shares they borrowed back to the broker. The trader must place the buy to cover order before a margin call. The transaction nets the trader a profit of $1,000: $10,000 (sale price) - $9,000 (purchase price).
What Is Buy to Open?  

"Buy to open" is a term used by brokerages to represent the establishment of a new (opening) long call or put position in options. If a new options investor wants to buy a call or put, that investor should buy to open. A buy-to-open order indicates to market participants that the trader is establishing a new position rather than closing out an existing position. The sell to close order is used to exit a position taken with a buy-to-open order.



Establishing a new short position is called sell to open, which would be closed out with a buy-to-close order. If a new options investor wants to sell a call or a put, that investor should sell to open.





Key Takeaways

A buy-to-open order is generally used by traders to open positions in a given option or stock.Buying to open an options position can offset or hedge other risks in a portfolio.A buy-to-open position in options creates the opportunity for large gains with minimal losses, but it has a high risk of expiring worthless.


   Understanding Buy to Open Orders  

The buy and sell terminology for options trading is not as straightforward as it is for stock trading. Instead of merely placing a buy or sell order as they would for stocks, options traders must choose among "buy to open," "buy to close," "sell to open," and "sell to close."



A buy-to-open position may indicate to market participants that the trader initiating the order believes something about the market or has an ax to grind. That is particularly true if the order is large. However, that does not have to be the case. In fact, options traders frequently engage in spreading or hedging activities where a buy to open may actually offset existing positions.






Buying to open an out of the money put when purchasing a stock is an excellent way to limit risk.



The exchange may declare that only closing orders can take place during specific market conditions, so a buy-to-open order might not execute. That could happen if a stock with options available is scheduled for delisting or the exchange halts trading of the stock for an extended time.


   Stock Considerations  

The term "buy to open" can be applied to stocks as well. When an investor decides to establish a new position in a particular stock, the first buy transaction is considered buy to open because it opens the position.



By opening the position, the stock is established as a holding in the portfolio. The position remains open until it is closed out by selling all the shares. That is known as selling to close because it closes the position. Selling a partial position means that some, but not all, stocks have been sold. A position is considered closed when no more of a particular stock remains in a portfolio.



Buy-to-close orders also come into play when covering a short-sell position. A short-sell position borrows the shares through the broker and is closed out by buying back the shares in the open market. The last transaction to completely close out the position is known as the buy-to-close order. This transaction removes the exposure completely. The intent is to buy back the shares at a lower price to generate a profit from the difference of the short-sell price and the buy-to-close price.



In cases where the share price moves sharply higher, a short-seller may have to buy to close at a loss to prevent even greater losses from occurring. In a worst-case scenario, the broker may execute a forced liquidation as a result of a margin call. Then, the broker would demand that the investor place money in the margin account due to a shortfall. That would generate a buy-to-cover order to close out the position at a loss due to insufficient account equity.


   Buy to Open vs. Buy to Close  

If an investor wants to buy a call or a put to profit from a price movement of the underlying security, then that investor must buy to open. Buying to open initiates a long options position that gives a speculator the potential to make an extremely large profit with very low risk. On the other hand, the security must move in the right direction within a limited time, or the option will lose all of its value to time decay.



Option sellers have an advantage over buyers because of time decay, but they may still want to buy to close their positions. When an investor sells options, the investor remains obligated by the terms of those options until the expiration date. However, movements in the price of the security can allow options sellers to take most of their profits much earlier or motivate them to cut losses.



Suppose someone sells at the money puts lasting for a year, and then the underlying stock goes up 10% after three months. The options seller can buy to close and get most of the profits right away. If the stock falls 10% after three months instead, the options seller will have to pay more to buy to close and limit potential losses.


   Example of Buy to Open  

Suppose a trader has done some analysis and believes that the price of XYZ stock will go from $40 to $60 in the next year. The trader could buy to open a call for XYZ. The strike price might be $50 with an expiration date about a year from now.
What Is a Buyback?  

A buyback, also known as a share repurchase, is when a company buys its own outstanding shares to reduce the number of shares available on the open market.



Companies buy back shares for a number of reasons, such as to increase the value of remaining shares available by reducing the supply or to prevent other shareholders from taking a controlling stake.





Key Takeaways

A buyback is when a corporation purchases its own shares in the stock market.A repurchase reduces the number of shares outstanding, thereby inflating (positive) earnings per share and, often, the value of the stock. A share repurchase can demonstrate to investors that the business has sufficient cash set aside for emergencies and a low probability of economic troubles.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Buybacks  

A buyback allows companies to invest in themselves. Reducing the number of shares outstanding on the market increases the proportion of shares owned by investors. A company may feel its shares are undervalued and do a buyback to provide investors with a return.



And because the company is bullish on its current operations, a buyback also boosts the proportion of earnings that a share is allocated. This will raise the stock price if the same price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio is maintained.



The share repurchase reduces the number of existing shares, making each worth a greater percentage of the corporation. The stock’s earnings per share (EPS) thus increases while the price-to-earnings ratio (P/E) decreases or the stock price increases. A share repurchase demonstrates to investors that the business has sufficient cash set aside for emergencies and a low probability of economic troubles.



Another reason for a buyback is for compensation purposes. Companies often award their employees and management with stock rewards and stock options. To offer rewards and options, companies buy back shares and issue them to employees and management. This helps avoid the dilution of existing shareholders. However, buybacks usage to increase executive compensation is a concern that Congress attempted to address with the Stock Buyback Reform and Worker Dividend Act of 2019 but it never made it past the Senate.






Because share buybacks are carried out using a firm's retained earnings, the net economic effect to investors would be the same as if those retained earnings were paid out as shareholder dividends (tax considerations aside).






   Buyback Process  

Buybacks are carried out in two ways:



Shareholders might be presented with a tender offer, where they have the option to submit, or tender, all or a portion of their shares within a given time frame at a premium to the current market price. This premium compensates investors for tendering their shares rather than holding onto them.
Companies buy back shares on the open market over an extended period of time and may even have an outlined share repurchase program that purchases shares at certain times or at regular intervals.



A company can fund its buyback by taking on debt, with cash on hand, or with its cash flow from operations.



An expanded share buyback is an increase in a company’s existing share repurchase plan. An expanded share buyback accelerates a company’s share repurchase plan and leads to a faster contraction of its share float. The market impact of an expanded share buyback depends on its magnitude. A large, expanded buyback is likely to cause the share price to rise.



The buyback ratio considers the buyback dollars spent over the past year, divided by its market capitalization at the beginning of the buyback period. The buyback ratio enables a comparison of the potential impact of repurchases across different companies. It is also a good indicator of a company’s ability to return value to its shareholders since companies that engage in regular buybacks have historically outperformed the broad market.


   Example of a Buyback   

A company's stock price has underperformed its competitor's stock even though it has had a solid year financially. To reward investors and provide a return to them, the company announces a share buyback program to repurchase 10% of its outstanding shares at the current market price.



The company had $1 million in earnings and 1 million outstanding shares before the buyback, equating to earnings per share (EPS) of $1. Trading at a $20 per share stock price, its P/E ratio is 20. With all else being equal, 100,000 shares would be repurchased and the new EPS would be $1.11, or $1 million in earnings spread out over 900,000 shares. To keep the same P/E ratio of 20, shares would need to trade up 11% to $22.22. 


   Criticism of Buybacks  

A share buyback can give investors the impression that the corporation does not have other profitable opportunities for growth, which is an issue for growth investors looking for revenue and profit increases. A corporation is not obligated to repurchase shares due to changes in the marketplace or economy.





$881.7 billion

Buybacks in 2021 among S&P 500 companies.



Repurchasing shares puts a business in a precarious situation if the economy takes a downturn or the corporation faces financial issues it cannot cover. Others allege that sometimes buybacks are used to inflate share price artificially in the market, which can also lead to higher executive bonuses.



As part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, certain stock buybacks for domestic public companies will incur a 1% excise tax, making them more expensive for corporations. This applies to buybacks after Dec. 31, 2022.




Why Would Companies Do Buybacks?
A buyback allows companies to invest in themselves. If a company feels that its shares are undervalued then it may do a buyback to provide investors with a return. The share repurchase reduces the number of existing shares, making each worth a greater percentage of the corporation. Another reason for a buyback is for compensation purposes. Companies often award their employees and management with stock rewards and stock options and a buyback helps avoid the dilution of existing shareholders. Finally, a buyback can be a way to prevent other shareholders from taking a controlling stake and avert a takeover bid.




How Is a Buyback Done?
A company can make a tender offer, at a premium over the current market price, to shareholders where they have the option to submit all or a portion of their shares within a given time frame. Alternatively, a company may have an outlined share repurchase program that purchases shares on the open market at certain times or at regular intervals over an extended period of time. A company can fund its buyback by taking on debt, with cash on hand, or with the cash flow from operations.




What Are Criticisms of Buybacks?
Criticisms of buybacks include creating a perception that a business does not have other pathways for revenue growth. Furthermore, if a company purchases back its share and the economy takes a downturn, this would negatively impact its financial standing. Buybacks are also often criticized for artificially inflating the share price, which can be used to justify higher executive bonuses. Critics also argue that the 1% excise tax on buybacks will have negative consequences on the financial world.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies buy back their shares to reduce the number of share outstanding, or those available on the open market. The expectation is that if the float or number of shares outstanding is reduced, this will have a positive effect on the stock price. A company may consider a share buyback program for any number of reasons. One of the more controversial of these is to reward company executives who often get a large proportion of their renumeration in stock options.
What Is a Buyer's Market?  

A buyer's market refers to a situation in which changes to the underlying economic conditions that shape supply and demand mean that purchasers have an advantage over sellers in price negotiations.





Key Takeaways

A buyer's market refers to a situation in which purchasers have an advantage over sellers in price negotiations.When changes in markets happen that increase supply, decrease demand, or both, then a buyer's market can occur.A buyer's market is commonly used to describe conditions in real estate markets, but it can apply to any type of market where conditions favor buyers.The opposite of a buyer's market is a seller's market, a situation in which conditions favor sellers.


   Understanding a Buyer's Market  

A buyer's market stems from changes in market conditions that favor buyers over sellers. Anything that increases the urgency of sellers to sell or decreases the urgency of buyers to buy will tend to create a buyer's market.



In terms of economic theory, this can be described using the law of supply and demand, which states that a supply increase amid constant demand or a decrease in demand with constant supply will put downward pressure on prices.



Factors that can increase supply include the entry of new sellers into a market, a decrease in demand for alternative uses for the good, or technological improvements that lower the costs of production. Factors that can decrease demand, meanwhile, include the exit of buyers from the market, a change in consumer preferences, or the increased availability of substitute goods. By changing the shape of supply and demand in a way that implies a lower market equilibrium price, these factors can create an advantage for buyers to negotiate for lower prices.



The term "buyer's market" is commonly used to describe real estate markets, but it applies to any type of market in which there is more product available than there are people who want to buy it. The opposite of a buyer's market is a seller's market, a situation in which changes to the factors which drive supply and demand give sellers an advantage over buyers in price negotiations.


   Buyer's Market Characteristics  

In a real estate buyer's market, houses tend to sell for less and sit on the market for a longer period of time before receiving an offer. More competition in the marketplace occurs between sellers, who often must engage in a price war to entice buyers to make offers on their homes.



A seller's market, by contrast, is characterized by higher prices and shorter sales times. Rather than sellers competing to attract buyers, the buyers compete against one another for the limited supply of homes available. Consequently, bidding wars between buyers often transpire in a seller's market, resulting in homes selling for more than their list prices.


   Buyer's Market Example  

During the housing bubble of the early-to-mid 2000s, the real estate market was considered to be a seller's market. Properties were in high demand and likely to sell, even if overpriced or in poor condition. In many cases, a home would receive multiple offers and the price would be bid up above the seller's initial asking price.



The subsequent housing market crash created a buyer's market in which a seller had to work much harder to generate interest in their property. A buyer expected a home to be in excellent condition or priced at a discount, and could often secure a purchase agreement for less than the seller's asking price for the property.
What Is Buying on Margin?  

Buying on margin occurs when an investor buys an asset by borrowing the balance from a bank or broker. Buying on margin refers to the initial payment made to the broker for the asset—for example, 10% down and 90% financed. The investor uses the marginable securities in their broker account as collateral.



The buying power an investor has in their brokerage account reflects the total dollar amount of purchases they can make with any margin capacity. Short sellers of stock use margin to trade shares.





Key Takeaways

Buying on margin means you are investing with borrowed money.Buying on margin amplifies both gains and losses.If your account falls below the maintenance margin, your broker can sell some or all of your portfolio to get your account back in balance.


   Understanding Buying on Margin  

The Federal Reserve Board sets the margins securities. As of 2023, under Federal Reserve Regulation T, an investor must fund at least 50% of a security's purchase price with cash or other collateral. The investor may borrow the remaining 50% from a broker or a dealer.



However, many brokers set higher margin requirements for their customers. In addition, some securities cannot be purchased on margin.



As with any loan, when an investor buys securities on margin, they must eventually pay back the money borrowed, plus interest, which varies by brokerage firm on a given loan amount. Monthly interest on the principal is charged to an investor's brokerage account.



Essentially, buying on margin implies that an individual is investing with borrowed money. Although there are benefits, the practice is thus risky for the investor with limited funds.


   Buying on Margin Example  

To see how buying on margin works, we are going to simplify the process by taking out the monthly interest costs. Although interest does impact returns and losses, it is not as significant as the margin principal itself.



Consider an investor who purchases 100 shares of Company XYZ stock at $100 per share. The investor funds half the purchase price with their own money and buys the other half on margin, bringing the initial cash outlay to $5,000. One year later, the share price rises to $200. The investor sells their shares for $20,000 and pays back the broker the $5,000 borrowed for the initial purchase.



Ultimately, in this case, the investor triples their money, making $15,000 on a $5,000 investment. If the investor had purchased the same number of shares using their own money, they would only have doubled their investment from $5,000 to $10,000.



Now, consider that instead of doubling after a year, the share price falls by half to $50. The investor sells at a loss and receives $5,000. Since this equals the amount owed to the broker, the investor loses 100% of their investment. If the investor had not used margin for their initial investment, the investor would still have lost money, but they would only have lost 50% of their investment—$2,500 instead of $5,000.


   How to Buy on Margin  

The broker sets the minimum or initial margin and the maintenance margin that must exist in the account before the investor can begin buying on margin. The amount is based largely on the investor's creditworthiness. A maintenance margin is required of the broker, which is a minimum balance that must be retained in the investor's brokerage account.



Suppose an investor deposits $15,000 and the maintenance margin is 50%, or $7,500. If the investor's equity dips below $7,500, the investor may receive a margin call. At this point, the investor is required by the broker to deposit funds to bring the balance in the account to the required maintenance margin.



The investor can deposit cash or sell securities purchased with borrowed money. If the investor does not comply, the broker may liquidate the investor's collateral to restore the maintenance margin.


   Who Should Buy on Margin?  

Generally speaking, buying on margin is not for beginners. It requires a certain amount of risk tolerance and any trade using margin needs to be closely monitored. Seeing a stock portfolio lose and gain value over time is often stressful enough for people without the added leverage. Furthermore, the high potential for loss during a stock market crash makes buying on margin particularly risky for even the most experienced investors.



However, some types of trading, such as commodity futures trading, are almost always purchased using margin while other securities, such as options contracts, have traditionally been purchased using all cash. Buyers of options can now buy equity options and equity index options on margin, provided the option has more than nine months until expiration. The initial (maintenance) margin requirement is 75% of the cost (market value) of a listed, long-term equity or equity index put or call option.



For most individual investors primarily focused on stocks and bonds, buying on margin introduces an unnecessary level of risk.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Buying on Margin  
  Opportunities for Higher Gains  

Margin trading allows investors to leverage their existing assets to make much larger trades than they could make with their own assets. For skilled traders, this represents an opportunity to exploit market opportunities, even with relatively limited investment capital.


  No Need to Liquidate Existing Assets  

Margin trading allows a trader to leverage their existing assets without having to sell them. If a trader liquidates their existing stock for cash, they may generate a taxable event that could offset their potential investment gains. However, a trader who uses their existing stock as margin collateral will be able to trade without selling their stocks.


  Risk of Higher Losses  

While margin traders can make higher profits, they can also incur larger losses. It is even possible for a margin trader to lose more money than they originally had to invest—meaning that they would have to make up the difference with additional assets.


  Margin Fees  

In addition to risks, traders must also pay additional fees for their margin positions. Typically, this ranges at around 10%, depending on the federal funds rate.



For example, as of January 13, 2023, Fidelity Investments charged between 8.25% and 12.575% for margin loans, depending on the size of the trader's margin position. If a certain position takes a long time to generate a profit, these fees may offset any expected returns.




Buying on Margin Pros and Cons

Pros

Higher Returns
No need to liquidate existing assets



Cons

Higher Risks.
Additional margin fees.







How Does Buying on Margin Work?
Margin traders deposit cash or securities as collateral to borrow cash for trading. In stock markets, they can typically borrow up to 50% of the total cost of making a trade, with the rest coming from their margin collateral. They then use the borrowed cash to make speculative trades. If the trader loses too much money, the broker will liquidate the trader's collateral to make up for the loss.




Why Was Buying on Margin a Problem?
Prior to the 1929 stock market crash, margin trading encouraged speculation because traders were effectively able to make rapid gains with a relatively low investment. These gains encouraged more margin trading, creating a bubble that pushed asset prices higher. When the bubble collapsed, many of these margin traders owed money that they were not able to repay.




Why Is Buying on Margin Risky?
Margin trades allow larger gains than regular investments, but also higher losses. These gains can be enticing in bull markets, but when the trades fail, an investor can owe more money than they originally had to trade with.


   The Bottom Line  

Margin trading is when investors borrow cash against their securities in order to make speculative trades. In a bullish market, margin trades can offer traders much higher returns than they could get by simply investing their available assets. However, margin trading can also lead to much higher losses.
What is Buying Power?  

Buying power, also referred to as excess equity, is the money an investor has available to buy securities in a trading context. Buying power equals the total cash held in the brokerage account plus all available margin.





Key Takeaways

Buying power is the money an investor has available to purchase securities.Buying power equals the total cash held in the brokerage account plus all available margin.A standard margin account provides two times equity in buying power.A pattern day trading account provides four times equity in buying power.Additional buying power magnifies both profits and losses.


   How Buying Power Works  

While buying power can take on a different meaning depending on the context or industry, in finance, buying power refers to the amount of money available for investors to purchase securities in a leveraged account. This is referred to as a margin account, as traders take out a loan based on the amount of cash held in their brokerage account. Regulation T, established by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), mandates that an investor’s initial margin requirement in this account type must be at least 50%, meaning the trader has two times buying power.


   Buying Power of Margin Accounts  

The amount of margin a brokerage firm can offer a particular customer depends on the firm's risk parameters and the customer. Typically, equity margin accounts offer investors twice as much as the cash held in the account, although some forex broker margin accounts offer buying power of up to 50:1.



The more leverage a brokerage house gives an investor, the harder it is to recover from a margin call. In other words, leverage gives the investor an opportunity to make increased gains with the use of more buying power, but it also increases the risk of having to cover the loan. For a non-margin account or cash account, the buying power is equal to the amount of cash in the account. For example, if a non-margin account has $10,000, that is the investor's buying power.


   Buying Power of Day Trading Accounts  

Pattern day trading accounts work differently to regular margin accounts in that they require a minimum equity requirement of $25,000, as opposed to $2,000. While a trader has to finance 50% of their stock positions in a standard margin account - which provides two times equity in buying power, they only have to fund 25% of the cost of securities purchased in a pattern day trading account – giving the trader four times equity buying power.



For example, suppose Sam has $50,000 in a day trading account; they could purchase up to $200,000 worth of open trades within the trading day (50,000 x 4 = $200,000 buying power).


   Example of Buying Power  

Let’s assume Alex has $100,000 in a brokerage margin account and wants to purchase shares in Apple Inc. (AAPL). Alex's initial margin requirement is 50% to enter a trade – some brokers may have an initial margin requirement greater than 50%.



To calculate Alex's total buying power, divide the amount of cash in the brokerage account by the initial margin percentage. Here, divide the cash balance of $100,000 by 50%. As a result, Alex can purchase up to $200,000 worth of Apple shares. ($100,000 / 50% = $200,000). That said, the value of the margin account changes with the value of the securities held. The closer it gets to the margin limits, the greater chance Alex has of receiving a margin call.
What Is Buyout?  

A buyout is the acquisition of a controlling interest in a company and is used synonymously with the term acquisition. If the stake is bought by the firm’s management, it is known as a management buyout and if high levels of debt are used to fund the buyout, it is called a leveraged buyout. Buyouts often occur when a company is going private.





Key Takeaways

A buyout is the acquisition of a controlling interest in a company and is used synonymously with the term acquisition.If the stake is bought by the firm’s management, it is known as a management buyout, while if high levels of debt are used to fund the buyout, it is called a leveraged buyout. Buyouts often occur when a company is going private.


   Understanding Buyouts  

Buyouts occur when a buyer acquires more than 50% of the company, leading to a change of control. Firms that specialize in funding and facilitating buyouts, act alone or together on deals, and are usually financed by institutional investors, wealthy individuals, or loans.



In private equity, funds and investors seek out underperforming or undervalued companies that they can take private and turn around, before going public years later. Buyout firms are involved in management buyouts (MBOs), in which the management of the company being purchased takes a stake. They often play key roles in leveraged buyouts, which are buyouts that are funded with borrowed money.






Sometimes a buyout firm believes it can provide more value to a company’s shareholders than the existing management.


   Types of Buyouts  

Management buyouts (MBOs) provide an exit strategy for large corporations that want to sell off divisions that are not part of their core business, or for private businesses whose owners wish to retire. The financing required for an MBO is often quite substantial and is usually a combination of debt and equity that is derived from the buyers, financiers, and sometimes the seller.



Leveraged buyouts (LBO) use significant amounts of borrowed money, with the assets of the company being acquired often used as collateral for the loans. The company performing the LBO may provide only 10% of the capital, with the rest financed through debt. This is a high-risk, high-reward strategy, where the acquisition has to realize high returns and cash flows in order to pay the interest on the debt. The target company's assets are typically provided as collateral for the debt, and buyout firms sometimes sell parts of the target company to pay down the debt.


   Examples of Buyouts  

In 1986, Safeway's board of directors (BOD) avoided hostile takeovers from Herbert and Robert Haft of Dart Drug by letting Kohlberg Kravis Roberts complete a friendly LBO of Safeway for $5.5 billion. Safeway divested some of its assets and closed unprofitable stores. After improvements in its revenues and profitability, Safeway was taken public again in 1990. Roberts earned almost $7.2 billion on his initial investment of $129 million.



In another example, in 2007, Blackstone Group bought Hilton Hotels for $26 billion through an LBO. Blackstone put up $5.5 billion in cash and financed $20.5 billion in debt. Before the financial crisis of 2009, Hilton had issues with declining cash flows and revenues. Hilton later refinanced at lower interest rates and improved operations. Blackstone sold Hilton for a profit of almost $10 billion.
