What Is the L Share Annuity Class?  

The L share annuity class is a version of a variable annuity that starts paying out earlier than most but has relatively high administrative costs. It is designed for investors who want to be able to begin withdrawing funds from an account after a comparatively short period of time. Other share classes offered by variable annuities are A share, B share, C share, O share, and X share annuity classes.





Key Takeaways

L share annuities are a class of variable annuity that allows for shorter surrender periods, typically 3-4 years.Other variable annuity classes typically have surrender periods of up to 10 or more years.However, the benefit of earlier access to withdraw funds from the annuity without penalty comes with higher administrative charges.


   How the L Share Annuity Class Works  

A variable annuity, in general, is a long-term investment vehicle set up by an insurance company for an investor planning for retirement. The investor pays an annual premium fee, which is invested in any combination of assets like stocks, bonds, and money market funds.



The wealth that accumulates from these investments is tax-deferred until the money is withdrawn, and the value of the variable annuity is correlated with the performance of the underlying investments.



In addition to the premium paid, the annuitant—or purchaser of the annuity—also pays a mortality risk and expense (M&E) fee to compensate the insurance company for the risk that the annuitant will outlive his or her life expectancy. The insurance company makes guaranteed annuitized periodic payments to the annuity investor.



Variable annuities are regulated by state insurance regulators, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).


   Special Considerations  

The L share is most valuable to investors who want access to their investment funds after just four years without being penalized. Consider the following example. A standard variable annuity with a $100,000 initial investment offers a growth rate of 10% over five years.



The surrender period is eight years under the standard contract with annual MEA fees of 1.1%. After five years, the investment grows to $153,157.90, but the annuitant cannot access the funds without being penalized for another three years.



An annuitant with an L share annuity class with a four-year surrender period and annual MEA fees of 1.90% will see that the investment value after five years is $147,614.30, lower than the standard annuity contract above. But the annuitant can withdraw some of these funds during this time, which would not be possible under another annuity class. So the annuitant will pay higher administrative fees but has earlier access to the income.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of L Share Annuity Class  

The L share annuity class offers some advantages versus other annuity classes, including earlier access to funds and no sales charge.


  Advantages  

There are various share classes available in variable annuities, one of which is the L share class. The L share class differs from other annuity classes in terms of surrender charges, administrative and expense fees, and the M&E fee schedule. The surrender period is the period of time during which an annuitant may not withdraw funds from the account. Otherwise, a surrender charge or penalty will be applied.



The L share class has a surrender period of three to four years, which indicates that the owner may start withdrawing money after three or four years, depending on the financial institution’s contractual agreement. Conversely, the average surrender period for a variable annuity is six to eight years, which makes the L share annuity an advantageous option.



Another advantage of the L share class is that it does not have an upfront sales charge like the A and O share classes. The front-end sales charge associated with A shares is a fee paid when share purchases are made and is deducted from the investment amount of the portfolio. O share classes charge a premium-based sales charge equal to a fixed percentage of the invested amount of an account.


  Disadvantages  

However, there are disadvantages to L share annuity classes. L share annuity classes offer a relatively higher mortality risk and expense (M&E) charge compared to other variable annuity classes. The M&E charge is a percentage of the annuitant’s account value and is an ongoing cost that continues even past the surrender period.



The higher the percentage, the smaller the value of the investments. M&E charges for variable annuities typically range from 0.9% to 1.95%, with L share class fees in the higher spectrum of that range.



The administrative and distributive fees are the charges for servicing and distributing annuity payments. Some of these charges relate to the cost of transferring funds between accounts and the cost of preparing monthly statements and confirmation reports.



Variable annuity administrative fees range from 0.0% to 0.6% annually with L shares offering the higher percentage of the account value. Some financial institutions combine the M&E and administration fees into one and classify the combination as an MEA fee, meaning annual mortality and expense fee and administrative charge.



Other fees that may be charged under the L share annuity class include an annual service charge and fees for special features such as long-term care insurance and a stepped-up death benefit.



It is important that investors read the contractual agreements rigorously to know and understand what costs will be associated with their annuity accounts.
What Is Labor Intensive?  

The term "labor-intensive" refers to a process or industry that requires a large amount of labor to produce its goods or services. The degree of labor intensity is typically measured in proportion to the amount of capital required to produce the goods or services: the higher the proportion of labor costs required, the more labor-intensive the business.





Key Takeaways

Labor intensive refers to a process or industry that requires a large amount of labor to produce its goods or services.Labor costs encompass all of the costs necessary to secure the human capital necessary to complete work.In labor-intensive industries, the costs associated with securing the necessary personnel outweigh the capital costs with regard to importance and volume.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Labor Intensive  

Labor-intensive industries or processes require large quantities of physical effort to complete necessary tasks. In labor-intensive industries, the costs associated with securing the necessary personnel outweigh the capital costs in regards to importance and volume. While many labor-intensive jobs require low levels of skill or education, this is not true of all labor-intensive positions.



Advances in technology and worker productivity have moved some industries away from labor-intensive status, but many remain. Labor-intensive industries include restaurants, hotels, agriculture, mining, as well as healthcare and caregiving.



Less developed economies, as a whole, tend to be more labor-intensive. This situation is rather common because low income means that the economy or business cannot afford to invest in expensive capital. But with low income and low wages, a business can remain competitive by employing many workers. In this way, firms become less labor-intensive and more capital-intensive.



Before the industrial revolution, 90% of the workforce was employed in agriculture. Producing food was very labor-intensive. Technological development and economic growth have increased labor productivity, reduced labor intensity, and enabled workers to move into manufacturing and (more recently) services.






As real wages rise in the economy, it creates an incentive for firms to invest in more capital to raise labor productivity, so the firm can continue to afford the cost of more expensive labor.


   Special Considerations  

A prime example of a labor-intensive industry is the agricultural industry. Jobs in this industry, which is closely related to the cultivation of foodstuffs that must be picked with minimal damage to the plant as a whole (such as fruit from fruit trees), are particularly labor-intensive. The construction industry is considered labor-intensive, as most of the required work is hands-on.



Even with the use of certain tools, a person must be involved with the vast majority of the work. Many positions that are part of the service industry are also labor-intensive. These positions include those within the hospitality industry and the personal care industry.



Labor costs encompass all of the costs necessary to secure the human capital necessary to complete work. These costs can include funds directed toward base wages, along with any benefits that may be given. Labor costs are considered variable, while capital costs are considered fixed.



Because labor costs can be adjusted during market downturns through layoffs or reductions in benefits, labor-intensive industries have some flexibility in controlling their expenses. Disadvantages of labor costs in labor-intensive industries include limited economies of scale, as a firm cannot pay its workers less by hiring more of them, and susceptibility to wage forces within the labor market.
What Is the Labor Market?  

The labor market, also known as the job market, refers to the supply of and demand for labor, for which employees provide the supply and employers provide the demand. It is a major component of any economy and is intricately linked to markets for capital, goods, and services.





Key Takeaways

The labor market refers to the supply of and demand for labor, for which employees provide the supply and employers provide the demand.The labor market should be viewed at macroeconomic and microeconomic levels because each offers valuable insight into employment and the economy as a whole.Unemployment rates and labor productivity rates are two important macroeconomic gauges.Individual wages and the number of hours worked are two important microeconomic gauges.In the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics compiles detailed reports on national and local labor markets.


   Understanding the Labor Market  

It's important and useful to study both the macroeconomic and the microeconomic views of the labor market. Each view can inform government and business outlooks, policies, and actions regarding employment. And the labor market plays a major role in any economy.



At the macroeconomic level, supply and demand are influenced by domestic and international market dynamics, as well as factors such as immigration, the age of the population, and education levels. Relevant measures include unemployment, productivity, participation rates, total income, and gross domestic product (GDP).



At the microeconomic level, individual firms interact with employees, hiring them, firing them, and raising or cutting wages and hours. The relationship between supply and demand influences the number of hours employees work and the compensation they receive in wages, salary, and benefits.


   The U.S. Labor Market  

The macroeconomic view of the labor market can be difficult to capture, but a few data points can give investors, economists, and policymakers an idea of its health. The first is unemployment. During times of economic stress, the demand for labor lags behind supply, driving unemployment up. High rates of unemployment exacerbate economic stagnation, contribute to social upheaval, and deprive large numbers of people of the opportunity to lead fulfilling lives.



In the U.S., unemployment was around 4% to 5% before the Great Recession, when large numbers of businesses failed, many people lost their homes, and demand for goods and services—and the labor to produce them—plummeted.



As of April 2023, the unemployment rate in the U.S. is 4.8%. Youth unemployment rate (workers aged 15-24) is 10.2%, the lowest value since 2005.







Labor productivity is another important gauge of the labor market and of broader economic health. It measures the output produced per hour of labor. Productivity has risen in many economies, the U.S. included, due to advancements in technology and other improvements in efficiency.



In the U.S., growth in output per hour has not translated into similar growth in income per hour. In other words, workers have been creating more goods and services per unit of time, but they have not been earning much more in compensation. What is called a productivity gap is created when labour productivity increases more rapidly than wages.



In the U.S. between 1979 and 2021, productivity has increased by 64.6% while hourly salaries have only increased 17.3%, meaning that productivity has grown 3.7 times more than pay.





More Labor Supply Than Demand

The fact that productivity growth has outstripped wage growth means that the supply of labor has outpaced the demand for it.


   The Labor Market in Macroeconomic Theory   

According to macroeconomic theory, the fact that wage growth lags productivity growth indicates that the supply of labor has outpaced demand. When that happens, there is downward pressure on wages, as workers compete for a scarce number of jobs and employers have their pick of the labor force.



Conversely, if demand outpaces supply, there is upward pressure on wages, as workers have more bargaining power and are more likely to be able to switch to a higher paying job, while employers must compete for scarce labor.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


  Factors That Influence Supply and Demand  

Some factors can influence labor supply and demand. For example, an increase in immigration to a country can grow the labor supply and potentially depress wages, particularly for unskilled jobs. An aging population can deplete the supply of labor and potentially drive up wages.



These factors don’t always have such straightforward consequences, though. A country with an aging population will see demand for many goods and services decline, while demand for healthcare increases.



Not every worker who loses their job can simply move into healthcare work, particularly if the jobs in demand are highly skilled and specialized, such as those for doctors and nurses. For this reason, demand can exceed supply in certain sectors, even if supply exceeds demand in the labor market as a whole.



Factors influencing supply and demand don’t work in isolation, either. If it weren’t for immigration, the U.S. would be a much older—and potentially less dynamic—society. So while an influx of unskilled workers might exert downward pressure on wages, it likely offsets declines in demand. 



Other factors influencing contemporary labor markets, and the U.S. labor market, in particular, include the threat of automation as advanced technologies gain the ability to do more complex tasks; the effects of globalization as enhanced communication and better transport links allow work to be moved across borders; the price, quality, and availability of education; and a whole array of policies, including the minimum wage.


   The Labor Market in Microeconomic Theory  

The microeconomic theory analyzes labor supply and demand at the level of the individual firm and worker. Supply—or the hours an employee is willing to work—initially increases as wages increase. No workers will work voluntarily for nothing (unpaid interns are, in theory, working to gain experience and increase their desirability to other employers), and more people are willing to work for $20 an hour than $7 an hour.


  Supply  

Gains in supply may accelerate as wages increase, as the opportunity cost of not working additional hours grows. However, supply may then decrease at a certain wage level: The difference between $1,000 an hour and $1,050 is hardly noticeable, and the highly paid worker who’s presented with the option of working an extra hour or spending their money on leisure activities may well opt for the latter.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


  Demand  

Demand at the microeconomic level depends on two factors: marginal cost of production and marginal revenue product. If the marginal cost of hiring an additional employee, or having existing employees work more hours, exceeds the marginal revenue product, it will cut into earnings, and the firm would theoretically reject that option. If the opposite is true, it makes rational sense to take on more labor.



The neoclassical microeconomic theories of labor supply and demand have received criticism on some fronts. Most contentious is the assumption of rational choice—maximizing money while minimizing work—which to critics is not only cynical but not always supported by the evidence. 



Homo sapiens, unlike Homo economicus, may have all sorts of motivations for making specific choices. The existence of some professions in the arts and nonprofit sector undermines the notion of maximizing utility.



Defenders of neoclassical theory counter that their predictions may have little bearing on a given individual but are useful when taking large numbers of workers in aggregate.




How Does a Minimum Wage Affect the Labor Market?
The effects of a minimum wage on the labor market and the wider economy are controversial. Classical economics and many economists suggest that a minimum wage, like other price controls, can reduce the availability of low-wage jobs. On the other hand, some economists say that a minimum wage can increase consumer spending, thereby raising overall productivity and leading to a net gain in employment.




How Does Immigration Affect the Labor Market?
The effects of immigration are difficult to measure precisely, due to the size and complexity of the modern economy. The classical model of economics predicts that high levels of immigration may cause wages to fall due to an increased supply of labor. However, some studies suggest that immigration can also have a positive effect on aggregate demand, depending on the skillset of the new arrivals. Because new workers are also consumers, the research found that immigration can increase the demand for labor as well as the supply.




How Does the Government Calculate the Unemployment Rate?
The Bureau of Labor Statistics compiles a monthly employment report, based on a survey of around 60,000 representative households in the United States. Data from the survey are used to estimate the employment figures for the entire country. The unemployment rate is based on the percentage of people who are not employed but actively looking for a job, as a percentage of the total labor force. Those who have no job and are no longer looking are not included in the unemployment rate.


   The Bottom Line  

The labor market is an economic term for the availability of workers and the cost of employment. It plays a major role in the overall economy. As in other markets, the price for labor is largely determined by supply and demand, although the labor market is also heavily regulated in many countries.
What Is Labor Market Flexibility?  

Labor market flexibility is an important aspect of the labor market. It allows companies to make certain decisions about changing their labor force in response to fluctuations in the market and to help boost production.



Organizations can make changes to their labor pool based on factors such as employee hiring and firing, compensation and benefits, and working hours and conditions. Companies do not have carte blanche, however, to implement a flexible labor market because of laws and policies that protect employees and the labor pool.





Key Takeaways

Labor market flexibility allows companies to make decisions about their labor force in response to market changes and to help boost production.Flexible labor markets allow companies to make changes such as employee hiring and firing, compensation and benefits, and working hours and conditions.Laws and regulations prevent employers from making changes at will.Other factors that impact labor market flexibility include labor unions, skills and training, minimum wage restrictions, and job information.


   How Labor Market Flexibility Works  

Labor market flexibility refers to how quickly a firm responds to changing conditions in the market by making modifications to its workforce. A flexible labor market allows employers to make changes in response to supply and demand issues, the economic cycle, and other market conditions.



But a truly flexible labor market only exists when there are few labor force regulations in place. When this is the case, employers are able to set wages, fire employees, and change employee work hours at will. And the changes can go either way.



During tough economic times, for example, an employer that has high flexibility can cut wages and increase the number of hours that employees are expected to work to boost productivity. Conversely, when the economy is strong, the same employer may decide to give employees a slight raise and cut back on their hours.






Labor unions can limit labor market flexibility by negotiating higher wages, benefits, and better working conditions with employers.



Less flexible labor markets are subject to more rules and regulations including minimum wages, restrictions on firing, and other laws involving employment contracts. Labor unions often have considerable power in these markets.



Some of the other factors that affect labor market flexibility include employee skills and training, occupational mobility, minimum wages, part-time and temporary work, and job-related information that employers make available to their employees.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Labor Market Flexibility  

Supporters of increased labor market flexibility argue that it leads to lower unemployment rates and higher gross domestic product (GDP) due to the unintended consequences of tight labor market restrictions. A firm may consider hiring a full-time employee, for example, but be concerned that the employee would be extremely difficult to fire (should that prove necessary) and could claim costly worker's compensation or sue based on alleged unfair treatment. The firm may choose instead to take on short-term contract workers.



Such a system benefits the relatively small number of full-time employees with especially secure positions, but hurts those on the outside—those who must move between unreliable, short-term gigs.



Proponents of tough labor market regulations, on the other hand, claim that flexibility puts all the power in the hands of the employer, resulting in an insecure workforce. The labor movement began in the late 18th and 19th centuries in the U.S. and Europe in response to dangerous and dirty workplace conditions, extremely long shifts, exploitative practices by management and owners—wage garnishment, threats, and other abuse—and arbitrary dismissals.



Employers had little incentive to ensure that workplace injuries and deaths were rare, since they faced no consequences for creating hazardous conditions, and employees who could no longer work were easy to replace.


   Factors Impacting Labor Market Flexibility  

As mentioned earlier, unions, employee skills and training, minimum wage regulations, and job-related information can all have an impact on flexibility in the labor market.


  Labor Unions  

Also called trade unions, these organizations represent the collective interests of a group of workers. Employees can band together through their union to initiate negotiations for better wages, working conditions, benefits, and working hours, making the market less flexible.


  Employee Skills and Training  

When employees are skilled and have ready access to training to improve on or add to their skills, they are better able to respond to changes in the market. For example, a customer service representative who goes back to school to get training in the information technology (IT) sector is able to respond to the growing demand for IT technicians when vacancies arise.


  Minimum Wages  

State and federal regulations limit how low employers can set the base pay per hour for employees. These minimums are based on changes in the cost of living and inflation. Some employers feel higher minimum wages cut into their productivity as well as their bottom line.


  Job-Related Information  

People rely on the information provided by employers about the jobs available in the market. The more informed job seekers are about open positions, the easier it is for employees to respond to fluctuating conditions within a company's workforce and in the market, making it much more flexible.




What Are Ways to Make Labor Markets More Flexible?
Ways to make labor markets more flexible include reducing or abolishing the minimum wage, reducing the power of labor unions, providing education and skills training to workers to improve mobility, making it easier to lay off workers, removing labor protection laws, and reducing unemployment.




What Are the Different Labor Categories?
Labor is generally categorized into unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled. Unskilled labor is that which does not require any skill or education and that can be performed by almost anyone. Unskilled labor tends to focus on physical labor as opposed to mental labor. Semi-skilled labor requires some skills and education but not as much as skilled labor. Skilled labor requires extensive education, such as a college degree, with jobs that are in need of judgment, decision-making, and complex thought.




What Is the Difference Between the Labor Market and the Financial Market?
The labor market is where employees and jobs interact whereas the financial market involves saving, borrowing, and investing.
What Is Labor Productivity?  

Labor productivity measures the hourly output of a country's economy. Specifically, it charts the amount of real gross domestic product (GDP) produced by an hour of labor. Growth in labor productivity depends on three main factors: saving and investment in physical capital, new technology, and human capital.





Key Takeaways

Labor productivity measures output per labor hour.Labor productivity is largely driven by investment in capital, technological progress, and human capital development.Business and government can increase labor productivity of workers by direct investing in or creating incentives for increases in technology and human or physical capital.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Labor Productivity  

Labor productivity, also known as workforce productivity, is defined as real economic output per labor hour. Growth in labor productivity is measured by the change in economic output per labor hour over a defined period. Labor productivity should not be confused with employee productivity, which is a measure of an individual worker's output.


   How to Calculate Labor Productivity  

To calculate a country's labor productivity, you would divide the total output by the total number of labor hours. 



For example, suppose the real GDP of an economy is $10 trillion and the aggregate hours of labor in the country is 300 billion. The labor productivity would be $10 trillion divided by 300 billion, equaling about $33 per labor hour. If the real GDP of the same economy grows to $20 trillion the next year and its labor hours increase to 350 billion, the economy's growth in labor productivity would be 72 percent.



The growth number is derived by dividing the new real GDP of $57 by the previous real GDP of $33. Growth in this labor productivity number can sometimes be interpreted as improved standards of living in the country, assuming it keeps pace with labor's share of total income.


   The Importance of Measuring Labor Productivity  

Labor productivity is directly linked to improved standards of living in the form of higher consumption. As an economy's labor productivity grows, it produces more goods and services for the same amount of relative work. This increase in output makes it possible to consume more of the goods and services for an increasingly reasonable price.



Growth in labor productivity is directly attributable to fluctuations in physical capital, new technology, and human capital. If labor productivity is growing, it can usually be traced back to growth in one of these three areas. Physical capital is the tools, equipment, and facilities that workers have available to use to produce goods. New technologies are new methods to combine inputs to produce more output, such as assembly lines or automation. Human capital represents the increase in education and specialization of the workforce. Measuring labor productivity gives an estimate of the combined effects of these underlying trends.



Labor productivity can also indicate short-term and cyclical changes in an economy, possibly even turnaround. If the output is increasing while labor hours remains static, it signals that the labor force has become more productive. In addition to the three traditional factors outlined above, this is also seen during economic recessions, as workers increase their labor effort when unemployment rises and the threat of lay-offs looms to avoid losing their jobs.﻿﻿


   Policies to Improve Labor Productivity  

There are a number of ways that governments and companies can improve labor productivity.



Investment in physical capital: Increasing the investment in capital goods including infrastructure from governments and the private sector can help productivity while lowering the cost of doing business.
Quality of education and training: Offering opportunities for workers to upgrade their skills, and offering education and training at an affordable cost, help raise a corporation’s and an economy's productivity.
Technological progress: Developing new technologies, including hard technology like computerization or robotics and soft technologies like new modes of organizing a business or pro-free market reforms in government policy can enhance worker productivity.
What Is the Labor Theory of Value?  

The labor theory of value (LTV) was an early attempt by economists to explain why goods were exchanged for certain relative prices on the market. It suggested that the value of a commodity was determined by and could be measured objectively by the average number of labor hours necessary to produce it. In the labor theory of value, the amount of labor that goes into producing an economic good is the source of that good's value.



The best-known advocates of the labor theory were Adam Smith, David Ricardo, and Karl Marx. Since the 19th century, the labor theory of value has fallen out of favor among most mainstream economists.





Key Takeaways

The labor theory of value (LTV) states that the value of economic goods derives from the amount of labor necessary to produce them.In the labor theory of value, relative prices between goods are explained by and expected to tend toward a "natural price," which reflects the relative amount of labor that goes into producing them.In economics, the labor theory of value became dominant over the subjective theory of value during the 18th to 19th centuries but was then replaced by it during the Subjectivist Revolution.


   Understanding the Labor Theory of Value   

The labor theory of value suggested that two commodities will trade for the same price if they embody the same amount of labor time, or else they will exchange at a ratio fixed by the relative differences in the two labor times. For instance, if it takes 20 hours to hunt a deer and 10 hours to trap a beaver, then the exchange ratio would be two beavers for one deer.



The labor theory of value was first conceived by ancient Greek and medieval philosophers. Later, in developing their labor theory of value, both Smith (in The Wealth of Nations) and Ricardo began by imagining a hypothetical "rude and early state" of humanity consisting of simple commodity production. This was not meant to be an accurate or historical reality; it was a thought experiment to derive the more developed version of the theory. In this early state, there are only self-producers in the economy who all own their own materials, equipment, and tools needed to produce. There are no class distinctions between capitalist, laborer, and landlord, so the concept of capital as we know it has not come into play yet.



They took the simplified example of a two-commodity world consisting of beaver and deer. If it is more profitable to produce deer than beaver, there would be a migration of people into deer production and out of beaver production. The supply of deer will increase in kind, causing the incomes in deer production to drop—with a simultaneous rise in beaver incomes as fewer choose that employment. It is important to understand that the incomes of the self-producers are regulated by the quantity of labor embodied in the production, often expressed as labor time. Smith wrote that labor was the original exchange money for all commodities, and therefore the more labor employed in production, the greater the value of that item in exchange with other items on a relative basis.



While Smith described the concept and underlying principle of the LTV, Ricardo was interested in how those relative prices between commodities are governed. Take again the example of beaver and deer production. If it takes 20 labor hours to produce one beaver and 10 labor hours to produce one deer, then one beaver would exchange for two deer, both equal to 20 units of labor time. The cost of production not only involves the direct costs of going out and hunting but also the indirect costs in the production of the necessary implements—the trap to catch the beaver or the bow and arrow to hunt the deer. The total quantity of labor time is vertically integrated—including both direct and indirect labor time. So, if it requires 12 hours to make a beaver trap and eight hours to catch the beaver, that equals 20 total hours of labor time.


   Example  

Here is an example where beaver production, initially, is more profitable than that of deer:












 
Labor Time Needed
Income/hr. ($)
Income for 20 hrs. of Work
Cost of Production




Beavers
Trap(12) + Hunt(8) = 20
$11/hr.
$220
$220.00


Deer
Bow & Arrow(4) + Hunt(6) = 10
$9/hr.
$180
$90.00






Because it's more profitable to produce beaver, people will move out of deer production and choose instead to produce beaver, creating a process of equilibration. The labor time embodied indicates that there should be an equilibrium ratio of 2:1. So now the income of beaver producers will tend to drop to $10 an hour while the income of deer producers will tend to rise to $10 an hour as the cost of production drops in beaver and rises in deer, bringing back the 2:1 ratio so that the new costs of production would be $200 and $100. This is the natural price of the commodities; it was brought back in line due to the arbitrage opportunity that presented itself in having the income of beaver producers at $11, causing the profit rate to exceed the natural exchange ratio of 2:1.












 
Labor Time Needed
Income/hr. ($)
Income for 20 hrs. of Work
Cost of Production




Beavers
Trap(12) + Hunt(8) = 20
$10/hr.
$200
$200


Deer
Bow & Arrow(4) + Hunt(6) = 10
$10/hr.
$200
$100






Although the market price may fluctuate often due to supply and demand at any given moment, the natural price acts as a center of gravity, consistently attracting the prices to it—if the market price overshoots the natural price, people will be incentivized to sell more of it, while if the market price underestimates the natural price, the incentive is to buy more of it. Over time, this competition will tend to bring relative prices back into line with the natural price. This means that the labor that is used to produce economic goods is what determines their value and their market prices because it determines the natural price.


   Labor Theory and Marxism  

The labor theory of value interlaced nearly every aspect of Marxian analysis. Marx's economic work, Das Kapital, was almost entirely predicated on the tension between capitalist owners of the means of production and the labor power of the proletariat working class.



Marx was drawn to the labor theory because he believed human labor was the only common characteristic shared by all goods and services exchanged on the market. For Marx, however, it was not enough for two goods to have an equivalent amount of labor; instead, the two goods must have the same amount of "socially necessary" labor.



Marx used the labor theory to launch a critique against free-market classical economists in the tradition of Adam Smith. If, he asked, all goods and services in a capitalist system are sold at prices that reflect their true value, and all values are measured in labor hours, how can capitalists ever enjoy profits unless they pay their workers less than the real value of their labor? It was on this basis that Marx developed the exploitation theory of capitalism. 


   Critiques of the Labor Theory of Value  

The labor theory of value leads to obvious problems theoretically and in practice. One critique is that it is possible to expend a large quantity of labor time on producing a good that ends up having little or no value. However, a closer reading points to the fact that commodities conforming to the LTV would have both a use-value and an exchange-value, and be reproduceable. Therefore something that has no demand in the market or with little or no use-value would not be considered a commodity according to the LTV. The same would go for a unique object such as a work of fine art, which would too be excluded. It may take one person longer than another to produce some commodity. Marx's concept of socially necessary labor time does also get around this problem.



A second critique is that goods that require the same amount of labor time to produce often have widely different market prices on a regular basis. Moreover, the observed relative prices of goods fluctuate greatly over time, regardless of the amount of labor time expended upon their production, and often do not maintain or tend toward any stable ratio (or natural price). According to the labor theory of value, this should be impossible, yet it is an easily observed, daily norm.



However, market price and value are two different (although closely-related) concepts. While market price is driven by the immediate supply and demand for a commodity, these prices act as signals to both producers and consumers. When prices are high, it incentivizes producers to make more (increasing the supply) and discourages buyers (reducing demand), or vice-versa. As a result, over the long run, prices should tend to fluctuation around the value.


   The Subjectivist Theory Takes Over  

The labor theory's problems were finally resolved by the subjective theory of value. This theory stipulates exchange value is based on individual subject evaluations of the use value of economic goods. Value emerges from human perceptions of usefulness. People produce economic goods because they value them.



This discovery also reversed the relationship between input costs and market prices. While the labor theory argued input costs determined final prices, the subjectivist theory showed the value of inputs was based on the potential market price of final goods. The subjective theory of value says that the reason people are willing to expend labor time producing economic goods is for the usefulness of the goods. In a sense, this theory is the exact reverse of the labor theory of value. In the labor theory of value, labor time expended causes economic goods to be valuable; in the subjective theory of value, the use value people get from goods causes them to be willing to expend labor to produce them.



The subjective theory of value was developed in the Middle Ages by priests and monks known as the Scholastics, including St. Thomas Aquinas and others. Later, three economists independently and almost simultaneously rediscovered and extended the subjective theory of value in the 1870s: William Stanley Jevons, Léon Walras, and Carl Menger. This watershed change in economics is known as the Subjectivist Revolution.
What Is a Labor Union?  

A labor union is an organization formed by workers in a particular trade, industry, or company for the purpose of improving pay, benefits, and working conditions. Officially known as a “labor organization,” and also called a “trade union” or a “workers union,” a labor union selects representatives to negotiate with employers in a process known as collective bargaining. When successful, the bargaining results in an agreement that stipulates working conditions for a period of time.



Unions organized by workers to fight for employee rights and protections, such as a shorter workday and minimum wage, have a long history in the United States. In fact, the first worker strike predates the American Revolution, and the first union was established by Philadelphia shoemakers in 1794. In 1881, the Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions was formed, followed five years later by the American Federation of Labor (AFL).





Key Takeaways

A labor union represents the collective interests of workers, bargaining with employers over such concerns as wages and working conditions.Labor unions are specific to industries and work like democracies.Labor unions have local chapters, each of which obtains a charter from the national-level organization.U.S. law requires an employer to actively bargain with a union in good faith; however, the employer is not required to agree to any specific terms.Some labor union contracts have been criticized for making it too difficult to fire incompetent, abusive, and violent employees


   How a Labor Union Works  

Labor unions have a democratic structure, holding elections to choose officers who are charged with making decisions that are beneficial to the members. Employees pay dues to the union and, in return, the labor union acts as an advocate on the employees’ behalf. Labor unions are often industry-specific and tend to be most common today among public sector (government) employees and those in transportation and utilities.



To form a union, a locally based group of employees obtains a charter from a national-level labor organization. Two large organizations oversee most of the labor unions in the U.S.—the Change to Win Federation (CtW) and the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO). The AFL-CIO was formed in 1955 after the two groups merged. The CtW spun off from the AFL-CIO in 2005.



Nearly all unions are structured and work in similar ways. U.S. law requires an employer to actively bargain with a union in good faith; however, the employer is not required to agree to any specific terms. Multiple negotiation rounds are conducted between the union’s bargaining unit—a group of members whose duty is to assure that its members are properly compensated and represented—and the employer.



A collective bargaining agreement (CBA) is eventually agreed upon and signed. The CBA outlines pay scales and includes other terms of employment, such as vacation and sick days, benefits, working hours, and working conditions.



After signing the CBA, an employer cannot change the agreement without a union representative’s approval; however, CBAs eventually expire, at which time the labor union and management must negotiate and sign a new agreement.






Despite being a boon to workers, labor unions have seen membership decrease significantly since their heyday in the mid-20th century.


   Example of a Labor Union  

The National Education Association (NEA) represents teachers and other education professionals and is the largest labor union in the United States, with nearly 3 million members.



It represents public school teachers, substitute teachers, higher education faculty members, education support workers, administrators, retired teachers, and students working to become teachers.



The NEA works with local and state educational systems to set adequate wages and working conditions for its members, among other activities.


   History of Labor Unions  

Labor unions have played a critical role in the workforce of the United States. In the industrial space, labor unions fought for safer conditions, better working hours, and better pay. Labor unions also worked to stop child labor.



The history of labor unions in the U.S. pre-date the country; the first strike occurred in 1768 when New York journeyman tailors protested against a wage reduction. As a result, the Federal Society of Journeyman Cordwainers was created in 1794 in Philadelphia, and is considered to be the beginning of trade union organization.



Refusal to admit Black people, women, and immigrant groups were common in labor unions in the 19th and early 20th century, and excluded groups formed their own unions. Today, labor union membership is very diverse, including more women and Black and Latinx workers than ever before, though Asian workers are underrepresented.



The right to form unions was established in 1935 by the National Labor Relations Act, also known as the Wagner Act. It gave unionized employees the right to strike and bargain jointly for working conditions. The act encouraged collective bargaining, stopped unfair tactics by employers, and set up enforcement in a new independent agency, the National Labor Relations Board.





14 million

The number of U.S. wage and salary workers who were members of unions in 2021.



In recent years, legislation and court decisions have weakened the ability of unions to organize. Today, right-to-work laws in 27 states prohibit contracts that require workers to join a labor union to get or keep a job.



Public employees cannot be required to pay dues to a union to support its collective-bargaining activities on their behalf, according to a 2018 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees.



In March 2021, the United States House of Representatives passed the Protecting the Right to Organize Act (PRO Act). The pro-union legislation aims to make it easier to form unions and overrides right-to-work laws. As of September 2022, the legislation has been stalled by the Senate, with most Republicans opposing the act and referring it to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.


   Criticisms of Labor Unions  

Some business owners, industry associations, and think tanks support right-to-work laws on the grounds that requiring union membership to obtain a job reduces competition in the free-market economy. Some labor union contracts—such as those of the teacher and police unions—have been criticized for making it too difficult to fire incompetent, abusive, and violent employees.



For example, according to a 2019 study of 656 police union contracts across the country, 73% included an appeals process in which final decisions on firing and disciplining officers were in the hands of arbitrators selected in part by the local police union. The result is that many disciplinary actions and firings of abusive police officers have been overturned.



Some in the labor movement have called for the expulsion of police unions on the grounds that they protect violent officers; however, the AFL-CIO’s recommendations in 2020 on police reform said the best way to address police brutality was to engage police affiliates, not isolate them.



At times, labor unions have been found complicit in organized criminal activity. The U.S. Department of Justice reports: "As of 2020, the United States had obtained relief in 24 civil RICO cases involving labor organizations affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT), the Laborers International Union of North America (LIUNA), the former Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union (HEREIU), and the International Longshoreman's Association (ILA)." 


   Political Role of Labor Unions  

Labor unions have also played a significant role in politics, endorsing candidates in local and national elections and representing their members’ interests in occupational safety issues. The 2018 Supreme Court decision banning mandatory dues for public workers protected by unions undermined the unions' ability to fund political advocacy.



The Democratic Party expresses support for the labor movement in its platform and generally wins labor union endorsements. Some unions, such as law enforcement groups, support Republican candidates. Traditionally, the Republican Party has viewed unions as a threat to freedom in the workplace and opposes legislation that makes it easier for unions to organize, such as the PRO Act.




What Do Labor Unions Do?
A labor union is an organization that engages in collective bargaining with an employer to protect workers' economic status and working conditions. The aim is to ensure fair wages, benefits, and working conditions for union members. Union contracts specify workers’ pay, hours, benefits, and job health and safety policies.




What Are Examples of Labor Unions?
Trade unions represent workers who do a particular type of job. The American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) is a trade union. Industrial unions represent workers in a particular industry, such as the National Education Association (NEA). NEA is the largest labor union in the U.S.




How Many U.S. Workers Belong to Labor Unions?
In 2021, 14 million workers in the U.S. were members of labor unions. This represents 10.3% of the working population.


   The Bottom Line  

A labor union is an organization formed by workers in order to negotiate for better workers' rights, including better pay, safer working conditions, and better benefits. A labor union chooses representatives to negotiate on its behalf with the employer. Labor unions have a long and storied history in the United States, fighting for employee rights and protections.
What Is Laddering?  

In finance, the term laddering is used in a variety of ways depending on the industry. Its two most common usages relate to retirement planning and the underwriting of new securities issues.



Generally, laddering is used to describe different investing strategies that aim to produce steady cash flow by deliberately planning investments, creating an influx of liquidity at a predetermined time, and/or matching a desired risk profile.



Although these strategies can vary substantially in their execution, what they have in common is the practice of carefully combining a series of investments to produce a desired outcome.



For fixed income investors, laddering can help manage interest rate risk and reinvestment risk.





Key Takeaways

Laddering is a financial term commonly used in retirement planning, where it refers to a method for reducing interest rate and reinvestment risk.Laddering is also used in the securities underwriting market to describe an illegal practice that benefits insiders at the expense of regular investors.A bond ladder is a series of bonds with particular maturities that are each held to maturity and whose proceeds are reinvested in a new, longer-term bonds to maintain the ladder's length.Bond ladders are used to generate fixed income cash flow and manage certain risks.


   How Laddering Works  
  Fixed Income Laddering  

The most common usage of the term laddering is found in retirement planning. There, it refers to buying multiple fixed income financial products of the same type—such as bonds or certificates of deposit (CDs)—each with different maturity dates. By spreading their investment across various maturities, investors obtain ongoing cash flow as they manage their interest rate and reinvestment risks.



In addition to managing those two risks, an investor's purpose in creating, for example, a bond ladder is to obtain a total return—no matter the interest rate rate environment—similar to the total return of a long-term bond.



To build a bond ladder, investors purchase a series of individual bonds, each of which matures in a different year. For example, you could buy five bonds that mature in 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years. As the first bond matures, investors reinvest the proceeds in a new five-year bond. This process repeats itself with each maturity. Thus, the maturity length of the ladder is maintained.



The practice of laddering can help investors manage reinvestment risk because, as mentioned, as the shortest-term bond on the ladder matures, the cash is reinvested in a longer-term bond on the ladder. Longer-term bonds tend to have higher interest rates.



Similarly, the practice of bond laddering can also reduce interest rate risk (if one has to sell) due to the variety of maturities. Shorter-term bond prices fluctuate less than longer-term bond prices due to years to maturity and the effects of duration.



Importantly, the whole idea behind the ladder is to hold the bonds to maturity rather than to sell them. Therefore, the current price of their bonds due to any change in interest rates isn't an issue. Investors' capital is preserved.






Reinvestment risk is the risk that investors won't be able to reinvest bond income payments and the principal they receive upon maturity at the same rate as that of the maturing bond. Interest rate, or market price, risk is the risk that the price of a bond will change as interest rates change.


  Underwriting IPOs  

Laddering as a term is also used in the context of the underwriting of initial public offerings (IPOs). Here, it refers to an illegal practice in which underwriters offer a below-market price to investors prior to the IPO if those same investors agree to buy shares at a higher price after the IPO is completed. This practice can provide unfair advantages to insiders at the expense of regular investors, and is therefore prohibited under U.S. securities law.


   Example of Laddering  

Michaela is a diligent investor who is saving for her retirement. At 55 years of age, she has saved approximately $800,000 in combined retirement assets. She is gradually shifting those assets toward less volatile investments.



Michaela decides to invest $500,000 in various bonds, which she has carefully combined—or laddered—to reduce her reinvestment and interest rate risks. Specifically, Michaela’s bond portfolio consists of the following investments:



$100,000 in a bond maturing in 1 year$100,000 in a bond maturing in 2 years$100,000 in a bond maturing in 3 years$100,000 in a bond maturing in 4 years$100,000 in a bond maturing in 5 years



Each year, Michaela takes the money from the bond that matures and reinvests it in a new bond that matures in five years. By doing so, she effectively ensures that she is exposed to interest rate risk only when she has to buy the new bond. Plus, she manages a potentially lower reinvestment rate by buying the longer-term, higher interest rate bond.



By contrast, if she had invested $500,000 in a single five-year bond, she would have risked a greater opportunity cost if interest rates had ended up rising during those five years.


   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)  


What Is Interest Rate Risk?
Interest rate risk is also known as market price risk. It is the risk that the price of a fixed income investment will change as interest rates change. For example, in a rising rate environment, bond prices fall. When rates fall, prices rise. So, if your circumstances force you to sell bonds as rates rise, you may receive less for them than you paid. However, if you hold bonds to maturity and aren't worried about selling them, interest rate risk won't affect those bonds.




Why Do Investors Ladder Bonds?
One reason investors ladder bonds, or buy individual bonds of different maturities and reinvest in new bonds as each matures, is to take advantage of the fixed income cash flows they offer when held to maturity. Laddering protects against market price risk (the risk that their price will drop as interest rates rise) since an investor doesn't plan to sell the bonds. It also helps manage reinvestment risk since the investor reinvests proceeds from each maturity back into the longer-term bond (higher-yield) end of the ladder.




Is a Shorter-Term Bond Ladder Better Than a Longer-Term One?
That depends on what an investor seeks. Generally speaking, in a typical yield environment, long-term bonds offer higher yields than short-term bonds. So a longer ladder can increase the yields an investor can obtain as they reinvest. However, longer-term bonds are more volatile than shorter-term bonds, so changing prices could be an issue. Inflation would be, too. Shorter ladders tend to have lower yields and have less volatile price fluctuations. They can be less susceptible to inflation. That could mean investors end up reinvesting a greater proportion of total capital.


   The Bottom Line  

In retirement planning, laddering describes when an investor buys bonds with various ascending maturity years. As the bonds reach maturity one-by-one, the investor reinvests them into bonds of equal maturity length. When these bonds mature, they are reinvested, and the cycle continues. Using this strategy, investors can maintain a steady cash-flow and reduce interest rate and reinvestment risk.



Investors can create short- or long-term ladders, depending on the bond maturity length they select. While long-term bonds tend to have higher yields than short-term ones, they are also subject to more unpredictable price changes.
What Is the Laffer Curve?  

The Laffer Curve is based on a theory by supply-side economist Arthur Laffer. Created in 1974, it visually shows the relationship between tax rates and the amount of tax revenue collected by governments.



The curve is often used to illustrate the argument that cutting tax rates can result in increased total tax revenue.





Key Takeaways

American economist Arthur Laffer developed a bell-curve analysis in 1974 known as the Laffer Curve.The Laffer Curve shows the relationship between tax rates and total tax revenue.The Laffer Curve states that total tax revenue is most likely not maximized when tax rates are at 100%, as this disincentives workers from earning wages.The Laffer Curve was used as a basis for tax cuts in the 1980s during the Reagan Administration.Critics argue that the Laffer curve is too simplistic and uses a single tax rate.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding the Laffer Curve  

American economist Arthur Laffer developed a bell-curve analysis that plotted the relationship between changes in the government tax rate and tax receipts, known as the Laffer Curve. It suggests that taxes could be too low or too high to produce maximum revenue and both a 0% income tax rate and a 100% income tax rate generate $0 in receipts.



Arthur Laffer argued that tax cuts have two effects on the federal budget, both arithmetic and economic.


  Arithmetic  

The arithmetic effect is immediate and every dollar in tax cuts translates directly to one less dollar in government revenue as well as decreases the stimulative effect of government spending by exactly one dollar.


  Economic  

The economic effect is longer-term and has a multiplier effect. As a tax cut increases income for taxpayers, they will spend it. The increase in demand creates more business activity, spurring an increase in production and employment.


   Charting the Curve  










Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 



Tax revenue reaches an optimum point, represented by T* on the graph.



To the left of T*, an increase in tax rate raises more revenue than is lost to offsetting worker and investor behavior. Increasing rates beyond T*, however, cause people not to work as much or not at all, thereby reducing total tax revenue.



If the current tax rate is to the right of T*, lowering the tax rate will stimulate economic growth by increasing incentives to work and invest and increasing government revenue.


   Laffer Curve and the Tax Rate  

The Laffer Curve follows certain logic, as tax revenue does not always increase whenever the tax rate increases. Of course, when the tax rate is 0%, the government collects no income. However, imagine a situation where the government collects 100% tax revenue.



Though all earnings will then be remit to the government, there is no incentive for workers to be employed. In this case, though the rate is highest (i.e. further along the x-axis), total revenue actual falls as shown by the diminishing portion of the curve. Therefore, though it may feel counterintuitive, tax revenue is most often not maximized when tax rates are highest due to extenuating circumstances.



The Laffer Curve's theory is that it is more efficient and most ideal for a government to set a rate somewhere between 0% and 100%. Though this may seem simplistic, finding the exact point where total revenue is maximized is subject to great political debate. Though the graphical depiction above shows it somewhere in the middle, the true ideal rate may be skewed one direction or the other. In addition, different circumstances for different countries will yield different outcomes.


   History of the Laffer Curve  

Arthur Laffer presented his ideas in 1974 to staff members of President Gerald Ford’s administration. At the time, most believed that an increase in tax rates would increase tax revenue.



Laffer countered that taking more money from a business in the form of taxes, the less money it will be willing to invest and a business will find ways to protect its capital from taxation or to relocate all or a part of its operations overseas. When workers see a greater portion of their paychecks taken for taxation, they lose the incentive to work harder.



Laffer argued that this means less total revenue as tax rates rise and that the economic effects of reducing incentives to work and invest by raising tax rates would damage an economy.



Laffer's findings influenced President Ronald Reagan’s economic policy known as Reaganomics, based on supply-side and trickle-down economics, resulting in one of the biggest tax cuts in history. Still, during his time in office, annual federal government current tax receipts still grew. In 1980, total Federal tax revenue was $517 billion; in 1988, total Federal tax revenue had nearly doubled to $909 billion.





Reagonomics

In the economic policy under President Reagan, marginal tax rates decreased, tax revenues increased, inflation decreased, and the unemployment rate fell.


   Use of the Laffer Curve in U.S. Economics and Political Discourse  

Politicians heavily debate the best way to change the effective tax rate. Republicans tend to lean towards lower corporate and high-earner taxes with the argument that these parties create jobs for the less wealthy. They often lean towards shedding public policy for low-income individuals, including minimizing or eliminating tax credits or rates for the lowest earners.



Democrats tend to lean towards redistributing wealth from high-earners to low-earners. In either case, each party strives to reach peak efficiency along the Laffer Curve, though they use very different methods. This is done by increasing tax rates for higher tax brackets and establishing tax breaks for lower tax brackets.



Regardless of which policies prevail, each side of the aisle is attempting to do what they think is best for their country. However, each have a different approach regarding the Laffer Curve. Republicans most often believe governments should have minimal interference with business, thus their ideal Laffer Curve often has a smaller peak. Democrats most often believe governments play a crucial part in generating programs that benefit low-earners, thus their ideal Laffer Curve is higher.


   Criticisms of the Laffer Curve  

• The Single Tax Rate. The tax system is complex and raising the rate of one tax can impact or offset the benefits or negatives of reducing another. The Laffer curve overly simplifies the relationship between taxes by allocating a simplistic single tax rate.



• The T* or Ideal Tax Rate Changes. The Laffer Curve sets the ideal tax rate anywhere between 0 and 100. However, this rate may change due to economic circumstances.



• Tax Cuts Required for the Rich. The Laffer curve assumes an exact T* for maximizing government revenue and requires tax cuts for the rich.



• Assumptions of Individuals and Businesses. The Laffer curve assumes that higher taxes result in lower revenues because corporations may leave and employees will work fewer hours. However, employees may work harder or longer for career progression. Businesses do not rely solely on the tax rate for decision-making but also look for a skilled workforce and infrastructure, both of which offset an increased tax rate.




What Can Prevent Tax Cuts from Stimulating Economic Growth?
Tax cuts and their effect on the economy depend on the timeline for growth, availability of an underground economy, availability of tax loopholes, and the economy's productivity level.




What Is Trickle-Down Economics?
Arthur Laffer's idea that tax cuts could boost growth and tax revenue was quickly labeled “trickle-down.” Both President Herbert Hoover’s stimulus efforts during the Great Depression and President Ronald Reagan's use of income tax cuts were described as "trickle-down," where tax breaks and benefits for corporations and the wealthy will trickle down to individuals and boost the economy.




What Is Lacking in the Laffer Curve?
Actual numbers are missing from the curve, so the actual suggested tax rates and the percentage increase in revenue generated are missing, leaving policymakers to guess which rates work and support Laffer's theory.


   The Bottom Line  

The Laffer Curve displays the relationship between tax rates and tax revenue collected by governments and is often used to illustrate the argument that cutting tax rates can result in increased total tax revenue. Arthur Laffer claimed that tax cuts have arithmetic and economic effects on the federal budget, however, the curve assumes both a single tax rate and the behavior of businesses and individuals.
What Is a Laggard?  

A laggard is a stock or security that is underperforming relative to its benchmark or peers. A laggard will have lower-than-average returns compared to the market. A laggard is the opposite of a leader.





Key Takeaways

A laggard underperforms its benchmark, in terms of an investment's returns.If an investor holds laggards in their portfolio, these are generally the first candidates for selling.Investors may mistake a laggard for a bargain, but these will carry excess risk.


   Understanding Laggards  

In most cases, a laggard refers to a stock. The term can also, however, describe a company or individual that has been underperforming. It is often used to describe good vs. bad, as in "leaders vs. laggards." Investors want to avoid laggards, because they achieve less-than-desired rates of return. In broader terms, the term laggard connotes resistance to progress and a persistent pattern of falling behind. As an example of a laggard, consider stock ABC that consistently posts annual returns of only 2 percent when other stocks in the industry post average returns of 5 percent. Stock ABC would be considered a laggard.



If an investor's portfolio contains laggards, these are most likely to be sold off first. Holding a stock that returns 2 percent instead of one that returns 5 percent costs you 3 percent each year. Unless there is some solid reason to believe that a catalyst will lift shares of a stock that has historically lagged its competition, continuing to hold the laggard costs money. The reason for a laggard's subpar performance is usually specific to the company. Maybe they lost a big contract. Maybe they are currently dealing with management or labor issues. Maybe their earnings are eroding in an increasingly competitive environment, and they haven't found a way to counteract the trend.


   Risks of Buying Laggard Stocks  

How does a stock become a laggard? Perhaps the company continually misses earnings or sales estimates or shows shaky fundamentals. Lower-priced stocks also carry more risk because they often feature less dollar-based trading liquidity and exhibit bigger spreads between the bid and ask prices.



Everybody loves a bargain. But when it comes to investing, a cheap or laggard stock may not be the best deal. You could very well end up getting what you paid for. While a stock share at $2, $5 or $10 may seem like it has lots of upside, most stocks selling for $10 or less are cheap for a reason. They have had some sort of deficiency in the past, or they have something wrong with them now.



A better strategy may be to to buy fewer shares of an institutional-quality stock that’s rising soundly, rather than thousands of shares of a cheap stock. Top mutual funds and other big players prefer companies with sound earnings and sales track records, and share prices of at least $15 on the Nasdaq and $20 on the NYSE. They also prefer volumes to be at least 400,000 shares a day, which allows funds to make trades with less impact on the share price.
What Is a Lagging Indicator?  

A lagging indicator is an observable or measurable factor that changes sometime after the economic, financial, or business variable with which it is correlated changes. Lagging indicators confirm trends and changes in trends.



Lagging indicators can be useful for gauging the trend of the general economy, as tools in business operations and strategy, or as signals to buy or sell assets in financial markets.





Key Takeaways

A lagging indicator is an observable or measurable factor that changes sometime after the economic, financial, or business variable with which it is correlated changes.Some general examples of lagging economic indicators include the unemployment rate, corporate profits, and labor cost per unit of output.A lagging technical indicator is one that trails the price action of an underlying asset, and traders use it to generate transaction signals or confirm the strength of a given trend. In business, a lagging indicator is a key performance indicator that reflects some measure of output or past performance that can be seen in operational data or financial statements and reflects the impact of management decisions or business strategy.Lagging indicators differ from leading indicators, such as retail sales and the stock market, which are used to forecast and make predictions.


   Understanding Lagging Indicators  

A lagging indicator is a financial sign that becomes apparent only after a large shift has taken place. Therefore, lagging indicators confirm long-term trends, but they do not predict them. This is useful because oftentimes, many leading indicators are volatile, and short-term fluctuations in them can obscure turning points or lead to false signals.



Looking at lagging indicators is one way to confirm whether a shift in the economy has actually occurred.


   Economic Lagging Indicators  

The U.S. Conference Board publishes a monthly index of lagging indicators along with its index of leading indicators. These include lagging indicators such as the average duration of unemployment, the average prime rate charged by banks, and the change in the Consumer Price Index for Services.



Some general examples of lagging indicators include the unemployment rate, corporate profits, and labor cost per unit of output. Interest rates can also be good lagging indicators since rates change as a reaction to severe movements in the market. Other lagging indicators are economic measurements, such as gross domestic product (GDP), the consumer price index (CPI), and the balance of trade (BOT).



These indicators differ from leading indicators, such as retail sales and the stock market, which are used to forecast and make predictions.


   Business Lagging Indicators  

Lagging indicators in business are a kind of key performance indicator (KPI) which measure business performance after the fact, such as sales, customer satisfaction, or revenue churn. They can be difficult or impossible to influence directly.






Businesses use tools to measure, track, and compare various leading and lagging indicators of performance.



Because they are at least partially the outcome of business decisions and operations, they provide insight into the results achieved by how a business is being run. Businesses can also track leading indicators that measure internal performance, such as customer engagement or employee satisfaction, which can be influenced more directly and lead to changes in lagging indicators. 



Businesses can use business intelligence tools such as dashboards to measure, track, and compare various leading and lagging indicators of performance.


   Technical Lagging Indicators  

Another type of lagging indicator is a technical indicator that lags the current price of an asset, which occurs after a certain price move has already happened. One example of a lagging technical indicator is a moving average crossover.



Unlike other lagging indicators that compare different economic variables to each other, a technical indicator compares the value of a given variable to its own moving average over a given interval or other historical characteristics. Technical traders use a short-term average crossing above a long-term average as confirmation when placing buy orders since it suggests an increase in momentum.



The drawback of using this method in asset trading is that a significant move may have already occurred, resulting in the trader entering a position too late. Note that similar technical approaches can be applied to economic indicators such as GDP or other measures of economic performance, as lagging indicators to confirm a change in trend.
What Is Laissez-Faire?  

Laissez-faire is an economic theory from the 18th century that opposed any government intervention in business affairs. The driving principle behind laissez-faire, a French term that translates to "leave alone" (literally, "let you do"), is that the less the government is involved in the economy, the better off business will be, and by extension, society as a whole.



Laissez-faire economics is a key part of free-market capitalism.





Key Takeaways

Laissez-faire is an economic philosophy of free-market capitalism that opposes government intervention.The theory of laissez-faire was developed by the French Physiocrats during the 18th century.Laissez-faire advocates that economic success is inhibited when governments are involved in business and markets.Later free-market economists built on the ideas of laissez-faire as a path to economic prosperity, though detractors have criticized it for promoting inequality.Critics argue that markets do need a certain degree of government regulation and involvement.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Laissez-Faire  

The underlying beliefs that make up the fundamentals of laissez-faire economics include the idea that economic competition constitutes a "natural order" that rules the world. Because this natural self-regulation is the best type of regulation, laissez-faire economists argue that there is no need for business and industrial affairs to be complicated by government intervention.



As a result, they oppose any sort of federal involvement in the economy, which includes any type of legislation or oversight; they are against minimum wages, duties, trade restrictions, and corporate taxes. In fact, laissez-faire economists see such taxes as a penalty for production.






Laissez-Faire is often associated with Libertarian views on the economy, where government plays an extremely limited role in the economy. In fact, one of the key characteristics of Laissez-Faire is that the government should only be involved with the following three functions:

Protecting the national borders via a standing army
Protecting private property rights and personal freedom via a police force and judiciary
Producing public goods that serve society (e.g., parks, libraries, etc.) that the market would not be incentivized to produce on its own



   History of Laissez-Faire  

Popularized in the mid-1700s, the doctrine of laissez-faire is one of the first articulated economic theories. It originated with a group known as the Physiocrats, who flourished in France from about 1756 to 1778. These thinkers tried to apply scientific principles and methodology to the study of wealth and economic production. These "économistes" (as they dubbed themselves) argued that a free market and free economic competition were extremely important to the health of a free society. The government should only intervene in the economy to preserve property, life, and individual freedom; otherwise, the natural, unchanging laws that govern market forces and economic processes—what later British economist Adam Smith, dubbed the "invisible hand"—should be allowed to proceed unhindered.



Unfortunately, an early effort to test laissez-faire theories did not go well. As an experiment in 1774, Turgot, Louis XVI's Controller-General of Finances, abolished all restraints on the heavily controlled grain industry, allowing imports and exports between provinces to operate as a free trade system. But when poor harvests caused scarcities, prices shot through the roof; merchants ended up hoarding supplies or selling grain in strategic areas, even outside the country for better profit, while thousands of French citizens starved. Riots ensued for several months. In the middle of 1775, the order was restored, and with it, government controls over the grain market.



Despite this inauspicious start, laissez-faire practices, developed further by such British economists as Smith and David Ricardo, ruled during the Industrial Revolution of the late 18th and early 19th century. And, as its detractors noted, it did result in unsafe working conditions and large wealth gaps.






Only at the beginning of the 20th century did developed industrialized nations like the U.S. begin to implement significant government controls and regulations to protect workers from hazardous conditions and consumers from unfair business practices; though it’s important to note that these policies were not intended to restrict business practices and competition.


   Criticism of Laissez-Faire  

One of the chief criticisms of laissez-faire is that capitalism as a system has moral ambiguities built into it: It does not inherently protect the weakest in society. While laissez-faire advocates argue that if individuals serve their own interests first, societal benefits will follow.



Detractors feel laissez-faire actually leads to poverty and economic imbalances. The idea of letting an economic system run without regulation or correction in effect dismisses or further victimizes those most in need of assistance, they say.



The 20th-century British economist John Maynard Keynes was a prominent critic of laissez-faire economics, and he argued that the question of market solution versus government intervention needed to be decided on a case-by-case basis.




Pros and Cons of Laissez-Faire

Pros

Government involvement in business thought to be inefficient and stifling
Encourages self-responsibility and innovation
Promotes free markets and competition



Cons

Lack of regulations can harm consumers and the environment
Can generate negative externalities
Competition naturally leads to wealth inequality
May incentivize bad actors







What Does "Laissez-Faire" Mean Literally?
Laissez-Faire, in French, literally means "let it be." Legend has it that the origins of the phrase "laissez-faire" in an economic context came from a 1681 meeting between the French finance minister Jean-Baptise Colbert and a businessman named Le Gendre. As the story goes, Colbert asked Le Gendre how best the government could help commerce, to which Le Gendre replied "Laissez-nous faire;" basically, "Let it be." The Physiocrats popularized the phrase, using it to name their core economic doctrine.




What Is an Example of Laissez-Faire?
An economy would follow the principles of Laissez-Faire if it followed an approach where the government was not at all involved in the workings of the economy, business, or markets. Instead, the free market would regulate not only prices but also discipline producers to remain good actors. In reality, such an economy does not exist. All economies, even in countries with highly Libertarian values, have some degree of government regulation and intervention.




What Is Laissez-Faire Capitalism?
In Laissez-Faire capitalism, companies could operate with a pure profit motive and not have to worry about government regulation or taxation. This, of course, could create negative externalities and information asymmetries that can allow producers to behave as bad actors and get away with it. Proponents of Laissez-Faire say that costly and exhaustive regulation is not needed since the market would weed out such bad actors. In reality, however, bad actors may continue operating for a long while. For instance, if a vitamin company is filling their capsules with sawdust instead of herb powder, it may remain unknown without government testing and regulatory oversight to protect consumers.
What Is Lambda?  

In options trading, lambda is the Greek letter assigned to a variable that tells the ratio of how much leverage an option is providing as the price of that option changes. This measure is also referred to as the leverage factor, or in some countries, effective gearing.





Key Takeaways

Lambda values identify the amount of leverage employed by an option.It is considered one of the "Minor Greeks" in financial literature. This measure is usually found by working with delta.The measure is sensitive to changes in volatility but it is not calculated the same as vega.


   Understanding Lambda  

Lambda tells what ratio of leverage the option will provide as the price of the underlying asset changes by 1%. Lambda is a measurement considered to be one of the "Minor Greeks," and it isn't widely used because most of what it identifies can be discovered by using a combination of the other option Greeks. However, the information it provides is useful for understanding how much leverage a trader is employing in an option trade. Where leverage is a key factor for a particular trade, lambda becomes a useful measure.
The full equation of lambda is as follows:















λ


=




∂


C


/


C




∂


S


/


S




=



S


C





∂


C




∂


S




=




∂


 ln 


C




∂


 ln 


S


















where:
















C


=


Price of the option
















S


=


Price of the underlying security
















∂


=


Change







\begin{aligned}&\lambda=\frac{\partial C/C}{\partial S/S}=\frac{S}{C}\frac{\partial C}{\partial S}=\frac{\partial \text{ ln }C}{\partial \text{ ln }S}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&C=\text{Price of the option}\\&S=\text{Price of the underlying security}\\&\partial=\text{Change}\end{aligned}


​λ=∂S/S∂C/C​=CS​∂S∂C​=∂ ln S∂ ln C​where:C=Price of the optionS=Price of the underlying security∂=Change​
The simplified lambda calculation reduces to the value of delta multiplied by the ratio of the stock price divided by the option price. Delta is one of the standard Greeks and represents the amount an option price is expected to change if the underlying asset changes by one dollar in price.


   Lambda in Action  

Assuming a share of stock trades at $100 and the at-the-money call option with a strike price of $100 trades for $2.10, and also assuming that the delta score is 0.58, then the lambda value can be calculated with this equation:








Lambda


=


0.58


×



(



100


2.10



)



=


27.62



\text{Lambda}=0.58\times\left(\frac{100}{2.10}\right)=27.62


Lambda=0.58×(2.10100​)=27.62



This lambda value indicates the comparable leverage in the option compared to the stock. Therefore a 1% increase in the value of stock holdings would yield a 27.62% increase in the same dollar value being held in the option.



Consider what happens to a $1,000 stake in this $100 stock. The trader holds 10 shares and if the stock in this example were to increase by 1% (from $100 to $101 per share), the trader's stake increases in value by $10 to $1,010. But if the trader held a similar $1,050 stake in the option (five contracts at $2.10), the resulting increase in value of that stake is much different. Because the value of the option would increase from $2.10 to $2.68 (based on the delta value), then the value of the $1,050 held in those five option contracts would rise to $1,340, a 27.62% increase.


   Lambda and Volatility  

Academic papers have, in some cases, equated lambda and vega. The confusion created by this would suggest that the calculations of their formulae are the same, but that is incorrect. However, because the influence of implied volatility​​​​​​​ on option prices is measured by vega, and because this influence is captured in changing delta values, lambda and vega often point to the same or similar outcomes in price changes.



For example, lambda's value tends to be higher the further away an option's expiration date is and falls as the expiration date approaches. This observation is also true for vega. Lambda changes when there are large price movements, or increased volatility​​​​​​​, in the underlying asset, because this value is captured in the price of the options. If the price of an option moves higher as volatility rises, then its lambda value will decrease because the greater expense of the options means a decreased amount of leverage.
What Is Lancaster University Management School (LUMS)?  

The Lancaster University Management School (LUMS) is Lancaster University's business school in the United Kingdom. LUMS offers a wide range of subjects from undergraduate degrees to postgraduate degrees as well as executive education. LUMS's Master of Business Administration (MBA) program consistently ranks highly in several disciplines, including corporate strategy, and because it also provides the best value for the money in the world.





Key Takeaways

Lancaster University's Management School is a U.K.-based business school offering higher education programs.LUMS is often ranked among the best business schools in the U.K. LUMS is accredited by four bodies, including the AACSB, EQUIS, AMBA, and the Small Business Charter.


   Understanding Lancaster University Management School (LUMS)  

Lancaster University Management School is one of the four faculties of Lancaster University in the U.K. Lancaster University accepted its first undergraduate students in October 1964. Business studies were among the first subjects to be taught at the school.



The LUMS campus is home to six different departments: accounting and finance; economics; entrepreneurship and strategy; management science; marketing, and organisation, work, and technology. The school has programs for undergraduate, graduate, MBA, and doctorate students. It also provides courses for working executives who want to continue their education while they work. Staff and students come from more than 100 different countries and its alumni network is comprised of more than 50,000 graduates. The school's vision includes:



"The strength of a healthy and growing LUMS communityChallenging convention, pushing boundaries and shaping agendasEnsuring that research is at the heart of our success and has the power to transform livesPromoting research-led teaching and engagement to develop critical thinking and better outcomesEmbracing different perspectives and collaboration strengthens what we doBeing a beacon for top talent and nurturing everyone’s potential"



LUMS is one of a small group of business schools in the world to have achieved quadruple accreditation by the leading international business school accreditation organizations, including AACSC, EQUIS, Association of MBAs, and Small Business Charter. The school appointed Claire Leitch as executive dean in May 2022. She served as interim executive dean as of November 2021.






LUMS is accredited by four bodies. These include the AACSB, EQUIS, AMBA, and the Small Business Charter.


   Programs Offered at Lancaster University Management School (LUMS)  

Lancaster University Management School offers a wide variety of degree programs at the undergraduate, graduate, and doctorate levels. Undergraduate students can choose between a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science. Graduate degree offerings include the Master of Arts, Master of Science, or Master of Research. The following table highlights a sample of some of the disciplines offered to students.











Lancaster University Management School Degree Programs




Undergraduate
MBA
Graduate
Doctorate


BSc Hons Accounting and Management  
Business Administration 
MA Human Resources and Consulting 
PhD Economics


BSc Hons Business Analytics 
Executive Business Administration
MSc Accounting and Financial Management
PhD Health Economics and Policy


BA Economics
Executive Cyber Security
MSc Business Analytics
PhD Management Science 


BSc Hons Management and Human Resources

MSc Economics
PhD Marketing


BSc Hons Business Management

MSc Finance
PhD Statistics and Operational Research


BA Hons Advertising and Marketing

MSc Management
PhD Theory and Practice of Management




MSc Strategy





MRes Marketing Management (Advanced)





MRes Organisation, Work and Technology




Source: Lancaster University Management School



LUMS also offers executive education for working professionals. These include:



Professional programs, which include short courses and part-time graduate degrees
Customized programs
Online coursework
Growth programs for professionals who work with small- and mid-sized businesses



Tuition and fees depend on the course and level of study. The school also charges fees based on residency status, so students who are from the U.K. pay a different fee than international students. For instance, the tuition cost for a student enrolled in the undergraduate honors degree for business analytics is lower for students from the United Kingdom compared to international students.










Sample of Tuition Costs at Lancaster University Management School




 
U.K. Students 
International Students 


BSc Hons Business Analytics 
£9,250
£22,650 


MBA - Business Administration 
£26,500 
£36,000


MBA - Executive, Cyber Security
£36,000
£36,000


MSc Accounting and Financial Management
£14,000
£26,500


PhD Marketing
£4,712
£19,520



Source: Lancaster University Management School



The tuition fees listed in the chart above are for one year of study and were set for the 2023-2024 academic year.


   Rankings of the Lancaster University Management School (LUMS)  

As noted above, Lancaster University Management School ranks highly in several categories among business schools in the United Kingdom and the world.



According to The Economist, LUMS came in 77th out of 100 MBA schools in the world and 22nd in the region. As much as 71% of the graduating pool received a job offer within three months of completing their programs.



The Financial Times's rankings placed the school in the 55th spot in European business schools. Its graduate degree in finance (pre-experience) came in the 46th spot among similar programs while its customized executive education programs placed 55 among similar programs.




Is Lancaster University Management School a Good School?
Lancaster University Management School consistently ranks among the top schools in the United Kingdom and the world for business studies. According to the Financial Times, LUMS is among the top schools in a number of disciplines, including corporate strategy. The publication also noted that the school provides some of the greatest value for students when compared to others around the world.




What's the Application Process for Lancaster University Management School?
Prospective students must complete an application online through the school's web portal. They must submit supporting documents, which vary based on the area of study. Transcripts and proof of ability in English are general requirements for all programs. Graduate and doctorate students may also require references, a personal statement, and research proposals. An application fee and deposit is also required.




What Programs Are Offered at Lancaster University Management School?
Lancaster University Management School offers courses for undergraduate, graduate, and doctorate students. There are also opportunities for working professionals to continue their education while they work. Disciplines vary, ranging from accounting, finance, business administration, economics, human resources, management, cyber security, and marketing.


   The Bottom Line  

Choosing the right business school can help you get your foot in the door. Some schools have a great reputation and may guarantee you a greater degree of success after you graduate. Keep in mind, though, that some of these schools come at a high cost. That's why it's important to keep your financial situation in line with your goals. Lancaster University Management School has a solid reputation among business schools, providing students with value—especially in certain disciplines.
What Is Land?  

Land, in the business sense, can refer to real estate or property, minus buildings and equipment, which is designated by fixed spatial boundaries. Land ownership might offer the titleholder the right to any natural resources that exist within the boundaries of their land.



Traditional economics says that land is a factor of production, along with capital and labor. The sale of land results in a capital gain or loss. Under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax laws, land is not a depreciable asset and qualifies as a fixed asset instead of a current asset.





Key Takeaways

Land can refer to real estate or property, minus buildings and equipment, which is designated by fixed spatial boundaries.In economics, land is a primary factor of production, along with capital and labor.Land itself is a valuable resource, but if it comes with other natural resources, like oil and gas, its value increases.Investing in land for development can be costly and may come with certain risks but can also be a source of profits and appreciation.The associated risks of developing land can stem from taxation, regulatory usage restrictions, leasing and selling a property, and even natural disasters.


   Understanding Land  
  In Terms of Production  

The basic concept of land is that it is a specific piece of earth, a property with clearly delineated boundaries, that has an owner. You can view the concept of land in different ways, depending on its context, and the circumstances under which it's being analyzed.


  In Economics  

Legally and economically, a piece of land is a factor in some form of production, and although the land is not consumed during this production, no other production—food, for example—would be possible without it. Therefore, we may consider land as a resource with no cost of production. Despite the fact that people can always change the land use to be less or more profitable, we cannot increase its supply.


   Characteristics of Land and Land Ownership  
  Land as a Natural Asset  

Land can include anything that's on the ground, which means that buildings, trees, and water that are a part of land are an asset. The term land encompasses all physical elements, bestowed by nature, to a specific area or piece of property—the environment, fields, forests, minerals, climate, animals, and bodies or sources of water.



A landowner may be entitled to a wealth of natural resources on their property, including plants, human and animal life, soil, minerals, geographical location, electromagnetic features, and geophysical occurrences. 



Because natural gas and oil in the United States are being depleted, the land that contains these resources is of great value. In many cases, drilling and oil companies pay landowners substantial sums of money for the right to use their land to access such natural resources, particularly if the land is rich in a specific resource.


  Among the Oldest Types of Collateral  

Lenders are extremely attracted to land because it is one of the oldest forms of collateral. But unlike a home or a car, for example, land cannot be moved, stolen, or destroyed. Air and space rights—both above and below a property—also are included in the term "land;" however, the right to use the air and space above land may be subject to height limitations dictated by local ordinances, as well as state and federal laws.


   Investing in Land for Development  

Land's main economic benefit is its scarcity. Many investors who purchase land do so with the intent of developing it, often for commercial or residential real estate developments that are subject to zoning ordinances.



Investing in raw land can produce significant future cash flows that are easy to predict once secured, but developing land can be very costly and uncertain. The associated risks of developing land can stem from taxation, regulatory usage restrictions, leasing and selling a property, and even natural disasters.




What Is Land in Economics?
In economics, land is considered a factor of production, similar to labor, as one of the crucial elements in creating goods and services. Land resources, specifically, are raw materials in the production process, such as trees, oil, and metals.




Why Is Owning Land Important?
Owning land is important because it is a source of wealth. Land can be harvested and the materials grown on it sold for profit. Factories, warehouses, and buildings can be built on land that will facilitate business. Land can be leased in return for income. Land is also a tangible good that does not depreciate. In addition, land cannot easily be tampered with, in that there is nothing to steal from it. It can be polluted, but that can also be prevented to a degree.




What Are the Main Uses of Land?
The main uses of land are for transportation, residences, commercial, production, agriculture, and recreation.
What Is a Land Contract?  

A land contract is an agreement between a buyer and seller pertaining to a specific tract of land. Developers advertise and sell tracts of land similar to the process of selling a real estate property. Land contracts can be broad in scope and may include both the land and real estate on the land. Many land contracts involve seller-financed purchases. Some borrowers buying land may also choose to finance the purchase through a bank loan.


   Land Contract Explained  

A land contract details the specific terms associated with buying a piece of property. Land contracts can be broad in scope with certain states having more generous legal rights for land contract holders than others. As a result, the world of land contracts can be difficult to navigate. As such, a buyer of land must be very careful to ensure that the terms of the contract are legally binding in case a dispute arises in the future.


   Seller Financing  

Land contracts are often structured with seller financing. This can provide for a broader universe of eligible borrowers since seller financing can sometimes allow for purchasers that would not otherwise qualify for a mortgage, or for investors who wish to complete a purchase faster than a regular mortgage would allow.



Seller financing reduces the number of entities involved in selling a property. Seller financing allows the buyer to purchase the property directly from the seller over a period of time rather than paying one up-front payment. In a seller-financing deal the seller determines the interest rate required, duration of the deal, and any down payment required.



Seller financed land contracts may include a tract of land or they may also include land and any assets located on the land. Assets included in a land contract may include residential homes, pools, tennis courts, basketball courts, barns, or horse tracks. Any assets located on the land and included in a land contract will affect the price. The seller holds the title on all assets until full payment is made, at which time the title is transferred.


   Bank Financing  

Land contracts are often seller-financed. However, in some cases, a borrower may seek traditional bank financing for a land contract. A borrower seeking to build on a piece of land may wish to finance the property through a bank loan. Terms of a loan for land will generally include a higher interest rate and are usually based on a shorter term. Loans for land will also often be structured with a balloon payment rather than regular installment payments. Often builders receiving a loan for land will refinance or pay off the loan with a takeout loan once the real estate is built and greater collateral value is established.
What Is a Land Trust?  

A land trust is a legal entity that takes ownership of, or authority over, a piece of property at the request of the property owner. Land trusts are living trusts that allow for the management of property while the owner is alive. However, like other types of trusts, each land trust's terms are unique and can be tailored to individual needs.



The main positives of land trusts are that they generally protect landowner anonymity and keep property out of probate. However, these protections aren't always guaranteed, and there is a risk of losing redemption rights and being disqualified from secondary market loans.



Land trusts are similar to other trusts but are meant exclusively for real estate. Land trusts can also hold other property-related assets, such as mortgages and notes. Any land can be used for a land trust, although they're mostly used for land conservation or developmental property. 





Key Takeaways

Land trusts are organizations that take legal ownership, stewardship, or partial control over property at the request of the landowner.Title-holding land trusts, also known as Illinois land trusts, protect landowner anonymity and keep property out of probate.However, liability and privacy protections aren't always guaranteed, and there's a risk of losing redemption rights and being disqualified from secondary market loans.Land trusts are commonly used by real estate investors and estate planning property owners.Another form of land trust is a conservation land trust, used for managing undeveloped land to maintain natural resources, historical sites, and public recreational areas.


   How a Land Trust Works  

Land trusts, which are trusts tied to real estate, are often used for estate planning. They are revocable trusts, meaning they can be terminated or changed, and are meant to be used during your lifetime for managing properties.



Land trusts can include real estate (e.g., buildings or homes) or property notes and mortgages. They are typically used for the land involved in conservation or wildlife purposes, or for real estate development purposes.



Land trusts have three key parts—the grantor, trustee, and beneficiary. The grantor is the person who creates the trust and transfers the property. The trustee manages the trust, and the beneficiary is the one that benefits from the land trust.



Grantors handle the transferring of assets into the trust and set the terms of the trust, while trustees handle the intimate details of the property. For example, if a rental property is held in a land trust, a trustee might be responsible for overseeing maintenance and collecting rent payments.


   Types of Land Trusts  

There are two key types of land trusts—title-holding and conservation land trusts. Title-holding trusts allow individuals or entities to hold land anonymously. The big difference with a conservation land trust is that the owner must give up some land use and development rights.


  Title-Holding Land Trust  

A title-holding trust allows the property owner to anonymously maintain all rights over the property and direct the actions of the land trust. These trusts are also commonly called "Illinois land trusts" because they were first popularized in Chicago during the 1800s. At that time, property owners were not allowed to vote on city projects in the same places they owned land. To circumvent this law, wealthy businessmen and politicians would use land trusts to purchase land anonymously, thereby protecting their voting rights.



Not all 50 states have a legal structure in place for title-holding land trusts. However, most states defer to the Illinois land trust laws if they don't have their own.



In a title-holding land trust, the landowner signs a document called a Deed in Trust, which transfers legal ownership of the property. When setting up the trust, the landowner (who is both the trust grantor and the beneficiary) can specify how the land is to be managed, who has control over it, and how any income it produces is distributed. This means that, while the trust is the title-holder on paper, the landowner maintains complete control over the property.



Title-holding trusts are used as a way for property owners to maintain anonymity and keep valuable assets out of probate. They can also provide a number of other estate-planning benefits and protect assets from judgments or liens. This can be especially useful for the very wealthy, celebrities, and large companies who may want to keep development plans under wraps.


  Conservation Land Trust  

Conservation land trusts require that the property owner give up some rights over land use and development. The goal of a conservation land trust is to protect wildlife, historical or cultural sites, and natural resources from commercial development or other activities that may lead to disruption or pollution.



In a conservation land trust, the trust doesn't necessarily take over the land title unless the property is donated in its entirety. Instead, a landowner can enter into a legally binding agreement, called a conservation easement, thereby "donating" their development rights to the trust. The trust is tasked with ensuring that the easement is enforced and, in some cases, managing the property.



Conservation easements can be tailored so that the landowner retains ownership and usage rights—such as the right to continue farming or raising livestock—while still ensuring that the land remains undeveloped in perpetuity. Conservation easements "follow the land," which means that the terms of the easement remain in force even if the land is sold or passed to heirs.





61 million

The total number of acres of undeveloped land managed by private conservation land trusts throughout the U.S.


   Examples of Land Trusts  

An example of a title-holding land trust is The Walt Disney Company's (DIS) resort in Florida. The Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida, was initially purchased in 1965 using a title-holding land trust. The original owners of the Florida swamplands, where the resort was built, had no idea that Disney (already a household name at the time) was behind the purchase. Had they been aware of the buyer's identity, they likely would have increased their asking price.



Meanwhile, there are plenty of examples of conservation land trusts across the U.S., including the Ozark Land Trust, which covers dozens of projects across 28,000 acres through the Ozark region. The trust is a non-profit organization that helps landowners preserve land in the Ozark area and protect it from urban development. The Ozark Land Trust helps accomplish this with nature preserves and conservation easements.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Land Trusts  

The key advantage of land trusts is that they provide liability and privacy protections, allowing real estate investors to keep property separate from personal finances. Using a land trust helps keep the details of net worth private. Real estate investors often use land trusts to keep property separate from other assets.



However, there are downsides to a property trust. Firstly, if you purchase the property under a land trust, any redemption rights are lost—that is, the right to reclaim the property just before (or after) foreclosure. Second, most land trusts are automatically disqualified from secondary market loans. 



The other issue with land trusts is that they give the illusion that there is no liability. Land trusts still have liability, even in Illinois. The real property owner, and not just the trust or trustee, can be found liable for things. Privacy isn't guaranteed, either, as court orders can pierce the privacy veil.





Pros

Separate personal finances from real estate
Privacy—anonymous property ownership 
Certain liability protections 
Ease of probate process 



Cons

Lose redemption rights
May not qualify for secondary market loans 
No foolproof liability protections
Privacy veil can be pierced





   What's Unique About Land Trusts?  

There is one other important distinction between title-holding and conservation land trusts: a donation to the latter could earn you a big tax break.



If a landowner donates their development rights to a conservation trust, they can receive a tax deduction equal to the difference between the value of the land as encumbered (with the easement in place) and what it could be worth if it were developed for its "highest and best use." In some cases, this deduction can be worth millions of dollars.



Typically, landowners are either farmers and ranchers who have owned the property for generations or very wealthy individuals, families, or businesses that can afford to buy tracts outright. Recently, however, an investment niche has developed that is designed to open up the tax benefits of conservation to a larger portion of the population.


  Investing in Conservation Easements  

Using a multi-member partnership (or "syndicate"), these investment companies allow multiple accredited investors to pool their money to purchase land for conservation. After donating the property development rights to a land trust via a conservation easement, the members of the partnership split the tax deduction pro-rata. Thanks in part to these conservation partnerships, it is estimated that land conservation increased by 175% between 2005 and 2015.


  Conservation Easement Controversy  

Of course, any time there's the potential for profit, someone will abuse the system. There have been some high-profile cases of people taking very large deductions for donating easements on golf courses, housing developments, and other properties that don't actually have much ecological or cultural value.



In response, there has been an aggressive backlash against syndicated investments, specifically, and the land trusts that accept their easement donations. However, this singular focus may not paint a complete picture of the issues at play. Whether donated by farmers, billionaires, or syndicated investors, it is clear that conservation easement donation laws require a closer look to ensure that the risk of abuse is minimized without removing the incentive to conserve.




How Does a Land Trust Work?
Land trusts work like other trusts, allowing grantors to set unique terms and conditions that fit their needs. Land trusts have three key parts—the grantor, trustee, and beneficiary. Grantors create the trust and transfer the property into it, trustees manage the trust, and the beneficiary benefits from the trust.




What Is the Purpose of a Land Trust?
Land trusts are meant to create liability and privacy protections for landowners. Real estate investors, individuals, and entities use land trusts to help create separation for personal finances and property.




Who Purchases the Land in a Land Trust?
The land is generally purchased by an individual or business that will then transfer the property into a land trust. The grantor of the land trust is the individual or entity that creates the trust and transfers the property.




How Long Does a Land Trust Last?
Land trusts generally last for a set period of time, such as 20 years. It's up to the beneficiary to extend the trust term when it expires. If they do not, the property is sold.
What Is Land Value?  

Land value is the value of a piece of property including both the value of the land itself as well as any improvements that have been made to it. This is not to be confused with site value, which is the reasonable value of the land assuming that there are no leases, mortgages or anything else present that would otherwise change the site's value. Land values increase when demand for land exceeds the supply of available land or if a particular piece of land has intrinsic value greater than neighboring areas (e.g., oil can be found on the land).





Key Takeaways

Land value is the value of the land, as well as any improvements that have been made to it.Always use an appraiser when assessing land value, as they are professionals at determining potential advantages or disadvantages for each individual property.Land value is not the same as the site value.Typically, land value is determined by a third-party appraiser.


   Understanding Land Value  

Property owners use land value to determine how much to charge other parties for its use. For example, an individual who rents out several acres of farmland to ranchers for grazing cattle will determine an amount to charge by looking at the market value of the land compared to land taxes and the capitalization rate.



Land value may be determined by real estate appraisals conducted by third parties. An appraiser’s assessment can be crucial to a lender’s decisions on offering to finance a prospective buyer or refinancing for a property holder.



Appraisal of the land can include a comparison of its condition to similar real estate. This is not the same as comparative market analysis, wherein the prices of recently sold similar properties are compared.






It is always a good idea to use an appraiser, as they will also look into any flaws or defects with the property that may affect its value.



The position and location of the land can have a direct influence on its value. For example, a remote parcel of land may have limited value because it does not have access to amenities, utilities, transportation or other resources that could make the property useful. The value of the land might increase if the property is located near a popular destination such as a city, entertainment venue, or services that are in demand.


   Special Considerations  

Land that is in a region that faces environmental risks could lose some of its value. For example, if a property is located in an area prone to flooding, mudslides, or earthquakes, those hazards might deter potential buyers from taking an interest in it.



The potential for recurring destruction would make it a challenge to maintain a safe and consistent presence on the property. Any improvements made to the property could be lost in an ensuing environmental calamity. The risk to residents and employees who may be present at such a site could outweigh any gains from using the land.



Even if the land is located in a prime place and has access to desirable resources, there could be mitigating circumstances that prevent the land from being developed or used to its fullest potential. Restrictive covenants might bar property owners from tapping into resources such as oil that is discovered there.
What Is a Land Value Tax?  

A land value tax is a more predictable way to tax property based solely on the value of a parcel of land and not any associated buildings.﻿﻿ The concept of a land value tax dates back to the beginning of agrarian societies when deciding how to tax landowners fairly for the benefit of the larger community was a common social goal.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A land value tax (LVT) is a method of assessing property taxes that only considers the value of the land itself and related improvements, and not the structures built on the land.An LVT is considered to be a more fair method of land taxation for agricultural regions where the land is productive.Land value taxes are examples of ad valorem taxation and are favored by some economists since land value tends to be more stable than that of houses or other buildings.


   Understanding the Land Value Tax  

A land value tax (LVT) is intended to fairly value land, which is a finite asset with a base value that does not change as dramatically as the structures built upon the land.﻿﻿ Fluctuations in land values are determined in great part by what happens with and around the land. For example, an acre of land in a rural setting may not contribute as much to the surrounding economy as the same sized plot in a downtown urban location, where the location might be next to a new food distribution center needing an additional loading dock.



From the earliest times, land has been seen by societies as an asset that cannot be owned by an individual in the traditional sense of ownership, but rather something to be treated as a rental passing from generation to generation. It is the human activity undertaken on a parcel of land that largely determines its overall value, and that activity is almost always linked to the wealth of the landowner, so a land value tax is viewed as a fairer basis for determining tax liability. This has led us to our modern-day system of assessing land and buildings separately for taxation purposes. 



LVT is also known as a site valuation tax, an example of an ad valorem tax. Ad Valorem is the Latin phrase meaning “according to value.”﻿﻿ Modern examples of these are most commonly found in the municipal land assessments homeowners receive annually, in which their land is valued separately from the various buildings on their land.﻿﻿ A homeowner can make improvements to the buildings on the land, changing the taxable value. But the land itself tends to maintain a more stable value over time. The opposite is also true in the case of a landowner who lets his buildings fall into disrepair. In this case, the overall property taxes paid to the community will be less than before, yet the land itself maintains more or less its original worth, which will be important when a potential buyer is considering their tax burden and the real value of what they are purchasing.


   Deadweight Loss and the Land Value Tax  

Changes in property values are largely determined by market swings and can be extremely volatile. These changes create what economists call deadweight loss, which is the measure of the loss to society at large.﻿﻿ These losses have far-reaching adverse effects in funding the basic services any prosperous society needs, such as police, fire and rescue.



The land value tax helps mitigate these market swings by separating the more stable value of the land from the buildings in creating a manageable system for real estate taxation.
What Is Landlocked?  

Landlocked in the context of real estate refers to a piece of property that is inaccessible via public thoroughfare, except through an adjacent lot. A vacant lot that is located behind a strip mall and can only be reached by walking through the mall qualifies as this type of lot. Landlocked property is locked up, meaning it's surrounded by other property. 





Key Takeaways

Landlocked in the context of real estate refers to a piece of property that is inaccessible via public thoroughfare, except through an adjacent lot.Landlocked property is locked up, meaning it's surrounded by other property, and only accessible through the property that surrounds it.Landlocked parcels are typically the result of subdivisions or the division of a larger parcel of land into smaller parcels, which are sold off individually.Owners of a landlocked property can obtain an easement, which grants the right to cross over neighboring land to access the public road.


   Understanding Landlocked  

Landlocked parcels are typically the result of subdivisions or the division of a larger parcel of land into smaller parcels, which are sold off individually. Ideally, the smaller parcels would each have access to a public right-of-way, but sometimes that’s not possible.



For example, a seller might wish to subdivide a large square parcel with a landscape feature in the center, such as a mountain, that’s unsuitable for development. Rather than carving out a gerrymandered parcel that gives road access to the mountain, it might be left landlocked.



Landlocked real estate properties can occur when land that's been in a family for many years is divided up between family members. Eventually, when properties are sold, there becomes a need for the properties to be separately owned. Accessing the landlocked property might not have been an issue when the surrounding properties were owned by the same family; however, once the ownership changes for some of the properties, access to the landlocked real estate can become an issue.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Landlocked Real Estate  

Landlocked property typically has a lower value than the surrounding properties, due to its inaccessibility; however, that doesn't mean the landlocked real estate is worth nothing. In addition, because it has a lower value, it may be a better value in expensive neighborhoods for prospective buyers. This may allow these buyers access to a community that they would otherwise be priced out of.



Obtaining a loan or mortgage for a landlocked property, however, can be difficult since banks may not finance a landlocked property. The lack of access to the property for public services, such as medical and fire personnel, can make banks and prospective buyers pass on dealing with a landlocked property.


   Easement  

Access to a landlocked property or parcel can be challenging for the owner; however, state and federal laws protect the right of property owners to “productive use” of their land, which means, in general, the right to gain access to a public road.



An easement, which grants the right to cross over neighboring land, is used to provide such access. There are various types of easements, some easier to acquire than others. But, savvy buyers who understand the rules can find good investments in landlocked property.



The stress-free way to get an easement is through a friendly negotiation with a neighboring landowner. They might be tempted to grant a verbal promise, which allows a landlocked owner to cross their land, but buyers are advised to get the promise in writing.



A written easement created by a real estate lawyer, and registered with the local deed office provides security for the landlocked property owner. With a verbal arrangement, the neighbor could change their mind, or sell their land to a less hospitable owner.



Finally, the neighbor's word won’t carry much weight when the landlocked parcel goes up for sale again. A permanent easement in writing avoids all of these potential problems.


   Easement by Necessity  

If a neighbor balks at signing a friendly easement or asks for unreasonable compensation, it may be necessary to obtain an easement by necessity. An easement by necessity is a court order granting the landowner legally entitled access to their property.



The catch is that the landlocked owner must prove through a deed and title search that both the landlocked property and the neighboring property were at one time owned by the same person. The court is essentially ruling that when the property was subdivided, the owner neglected to provide the necessary road access.



It’s important to note that filing for an easement by necessity will entail legal costs. Also, it may leave the landlocked owner with an angry neighbor who can appeal the ruling. There are exceptions to an easement by necessity, such as land patents granted by the federal government, even those dating back hundreds of years. To avoid being embroiled in legal battles over a landlocked property, buyers should consult an experienced real estate attorney.




Can You Deny Access to Landlocked Property?
No, you cannot deny access to landlocked property. There are federal and state laws in place that allow access to landlocked property even though direct access is not possible. One of the best ways to allow access to landlocked property is through an easement or easement by necessity.




Why Should I Invest in a Landlocked Property?
There are many reasons why a person would want to invest in a landlocked property. Landlocked properties are lower in value so they might be an entry point into an otherwise expensive neighborhood that would be out of the person's budget. If a landlocked property is next to a business or area of business that is likely to expand in the future, then holding onto a landlocked property and selling it in the future for a higher price when the business area expands is also another reason to purchase such property.




What Is Severance of Unity?
"Severance of unity" is one of the items that the owner of a landlocked property must prove when trying to obtain an easement by necessity. It proves that the initial owner of the land subdivided the property and part of the division was transferred to the claimant.
What Is a Landlord?  

The term landlord refers to a property owner who rents or leases that property to another party in exchange for rent payments. Landlords can be individuals, businesses, or other entities. Landlords typically provide the necessary maintenance or repairs during the rental period, while the tenant or leaseholder is responsible for the cleanliness and general upkeep of the property. Specific duties and obligations of each party are normally outlined in a lease agreement.





Key Takeaways

A landlord is a person or entity which owns real property and then leases it out to tenants in return for rent payment.A landlord can rent to either residential or commercial tenants depending on zoning restrictions and type of property.Landlords and tenants are bound by a lease agreement, which is a legal contract specifying the rights and responsibilities of each party.Being a landlord can generate passive rental income, but can also come with unforeseen costs and unique legal and financial risks.Landlords are not allowed to discriminate (based on things like race or sexual orientation), enter the property without proper notice, evict a tenant improperly, and raise rents without notice.


   What Landlords Do  

As noted above, a landlord is anyone who owns property and rents it out to someone else. This party is called the tenant or leaseholder. Landlords invest in real estate as a source of financial profit. By owning property and leasing it out, a landlord can earn a steady stream of income along with the potential for appreciation of their properties.



Landlords may be individuals, businesses, or other entities, such as government agencies. Similarly, the types of properties they own can also vary. That means that the types of properties they own aren't limited to just homes. In addition to single-family residences, their real estate portfolios may include:



Multi-family residential dwellings, such as multi-family homes, apartment buildings, and condominiums
Land and empty lots
Vacation properties, such as cottages and villas
Commercial properties, such as standalone business properties, shopping malls, office buildings, or mixed-use buildings



Landlords typically use leases when they rent out their assets. A lease is a legally binding contract that outlines the terms under which one party agrees to rent property from another. It guarantees the lessee or tenant the use of an asset and guarantees that the lessor (the property owner or landlord) is entitled to regular payments for a specified period in exchange.





Absentee Landlords

There are some landlords who own property but aren't actually located on or near the property. These entities are called absentee landlords. Being an absentee landlord can be risky for the property owner. Damage or a complete loss due to negligence or tenant misbehavior is an ongoing worry. Squatting situations can also arise without adequately monitoring, and the eviction of tenants can be problematic.


   Landlord Rights and Responsibilities  

Landlords have specific rights and responsibilities that vary from state to state, however, there are general laws, common to all states.



Property owners also have the right to collect rent, as well as any prearranged late fees. They also have the right to raise the rent as defined in the tenant-landlord lease agreement. When tenants do not pay rent, landlords have the right to evict them. The process of eviction also varies from state to state. Most states provide landlords with the ability to collect back rent as well as legal costs.






In 2019, Oregon became the first state to implement statewide rent control, placing a limit on rent increases and limiting a landlords' ability to remove tenants without cause.



Property owners must:



Responsible for maintaining their rental properties in habitable conditionManaging security depositsEnsuring that a property is clean and empty when a new tenant moves in



The landlord must also follow all local building codes, perform prompt repairs, and keep all vital services, including plumbing, electricity, and heat, in working order.



Security deposit management is also a critical obligation for any landlord. While landlords have the right to charge tenants a security deposit to cover both property damage, as well as unpaid rent, the deposit does not ever actually belong to the landlord. Rules and laws governing security deposit amounts and how they must be maintained. These rules vary from state to state. Landlords who breach these laws could face legal consequences.


   Types of Landlords  

Just as the types of properties a landlord can own can vary, so too do the types of landlords. They may be individuals, corporations, or other entities, such as government agencies.



Individuals may own one or more properties and rent them out to supplement their incomes or as a way to diversify their investment portfolios. For instance, a middle-aged couple may decide to purchase a second home and rent it out as a way to increase their monthly income, Keeping the property rented out during retirement can help these individuals supplement any money they receive from Social Security benefits or other investments.



Other landlords, such as corporations, may actually be in the business of purchasing properties for the express purpose to rent them out. For example, a real estate corporation may purchase office buildings and rent them out to different businesses for monthly rent.



Municipal governments, especially those in large cities, often own housing corporations. These agencies own, rent out, manage, and maintain affordable or subsidized housing rentals to those in need. Rental payments are commonly determined based on a tenant's income for these dwellings.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Being a Landlord  

Landlords have financial advantages and disadvantages when investing in a rental property.



Among the benefits, a landlord may leverage borrowed funds to purchase a rental property, thereby needing a smaller portion of the total property cost, to gain the rental income from the structure. The rental property can secure this debt, freeing up other assets belonging to the landlord.





Advantages of Being a Landlord

Use of leverage to purchase the property
Tax-deductible costs
Income stream
Potential for appreciation



Disadvantages of Being a Landlord

Various responsibilities of maintaining and managing the property
Taxes on capital gains
Tenant-related hassles
Unforeseen costs
Unique legal liabilities






Most costs associated with rental properties are tax-deductible. If there is no net profit after expenses, rental income is essentially un-taxed income. As the rental property mortgage is paid down, landlords increase their ownership percentage of their property and gain access to the appreciation of value.



However, when a landlord sells a property, they will pay taxes on any capital gains unless they roll over the money into another rental property. This process called a 1031 exchange, has specific requirements. The new property must be identified within 45 days of the sale, and the full transfer must take place within 180 days.


   Limits on a Landlord's Rights  

There are four main things landlords aren't allowed to do:



Discriminate: Thanks to the Fair Housing Act, the law strictly forbids landlords from denying a lease to someone based on: race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, familial status, disability, or gender.



Enter without proper notice: Unless it's for an emergency situation such as a fire or leak, landlords must give proper notice before entering a property. Laws vary by state, but many statutes require at least 24-hour notice.



Evict tenants improperly: A landlord may evict a tenant for several reasons, but they must always go through the proper legal channels. Failure to follow proper protocol puts the landlord in a precarious legal position.



Raise rents without notice: Landlords must give ample notice before increasing a tenant's rent (typically that means a minimum of 30 days). And depending on the state, rent control laws might prevent landlords from raising rents above a certain limit; even when the lease is up for renewal.




How Much Notice Does a Landlord Have to Give a Tenant to Move Out?
In most states, landlords must give a tenant 30 days' notice to end a month-to-month lease.




How Long Does a Landlord Have to Make Repairs?
Landlord-tenant laws vary from state to state. But generally speaking, a landlord has three to seven days to fix critical issues (such as no heat or running water) and 30 days for less serious problems.




How Do I Report a Landlord for Negligence?
In most cases, you must first notify the landlord of any issue(s) before you file a complaint. If there is no response or the landlord doesn't rectify the situation, you may file a complaint with:the local health departmentthe Rental Protection Agencythe U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Multifamily Housing Complaint Linethe local police




How Much Can a Landlord Raise the Rent?
The amount a landlord can increase the rent depends on local laws. In areas without rent control, rent increases vary by state. For example, in California, the Tenant Protection Act of 2019 provides a rent cap increase for areas within California that do not have a rent control in place.


   The Bottom Line  

Landlords have specific duties, responsibilities, and rights. Some of them vary by state, but some are general and common to all states. They all should be outlined in a lease agreement. This is a key legal contract that states what the tenant will pay monthly for rent and for how long. It also stipulates the duties and responsibilities of both landlords and tenants and the consequences of a breach.
What Is a Lapping Scheme?  

A lapping scheme is a fraudulent practice that involves an employee altering accounts receivables to hide stolen cash.



The method involves taking a subsequent receivables payment from a transaction (for example, a sale) and using that to cover the theft. The receivable from the second transaction is covered by money from the third transaction, and so on.





Key Takeaways

A lapping scheme is a form of accounting fraud whereby stolen or misappropriated cash is obscured by an employee who altes the accounts receivable.A forensic accounting audit of cash receipts can be undertaken to reveal a lapping scheme, which may show increased age of accounts receivables.A company can take several simple steps to prevent the opportunity of this type of fraud in the workplace.


   How to Detect Lapping Schemes  

A lapping scheme can be detected by tracing how cash receipts have been applied to customer accounts. If there is evidence that cash receipts are routinely being applied to the wrong customer accounts, then there is likely an active lapping scheme in progress.



Another indicator of a lapping scheme is an employee who refuses to take the vacation time they've earned. This is because lapping requires that the 'lapper' (the individual engaged in the fraud) is involved every day, and so is unable to take any vacation time. One telltale sign of lapping is a rise in the aging of accounts receivable. A lapping scheme can only temporarily hide the theft. Sooner or later, the shortfall will show up and have to be recorded as a loss.






Lapping schemes typically happen in smaller companies where only one person may handle cash receipts and customer billing.


   How to Prevent Lapping Schemes  

Companies can prevent lapping schemes by doing the following:



Separating cashier and billing responsibilities (called segregation of duties)Electing someone other than the cashier to deliver statements to customers (Customers are aware of what they've paid, so they should be able to detect any incorrect payments connected to their accounts, or detect that certain payments were never applied.)Contact customers and inquire about whether or not they've been receiving monthly statements from the company (Whoever is committing the fraud may be intercepting the statements before they are mailed.)Audit cash receipts transactions on a regular basisRequire all employees to take their vacation time, without exceptionKeep close track of the use of credit memos (The person committing fraud may try to end a lapping situation by writing off a receivable in the amount of the missing funds.)Mark all checks with the phrase "For Deposit Only," so that employees cannot deposit these checks to their own accountsHave customers pay directly to a lockbox, so that cash cannot be intercepted and stolen by employees


   Example of a Lapping Scheme  

Suppose that a company receives $150 for payment, but an accounting clerk diverts that to a personal account. To hide the theft, the clerk will apply the second receivable to come in, for example in the amount of $200, to the first receivable. That leaves $50 leftover to be applied to the second receivable, and $150 of it still to be paid. The clerk continues allocating (lapping) money from successive sales to the preceding receivables so the store's accounting records fail to reveal the discrepancy.
What Is a Lapse?  

A lapse is the removal or expiration of a privilege, right, or policy due to the passage of time or some sort of inaction. A lapse of a privilege due to inaction occurs when the party that is to receive the benefit does not fulfill the conditions or requirements set forth by a contract or agreement.



When an insurance policy lapses, it usually occurs because one party fails to act on its obligations, or one of the terms on the policy is breached; an insurance policy will lapse if the holder does not pay the premiums, for example. Similarly, in derivatives trading, the right given by an options contract will lapse when the option reaches maturity, at which time the holder will no longer possess the right to buy or sell the underlying asset.





Key Takeaways

A lapse occurs when the benefits and rights stated in a contract no longer remain active due to the contract holder failing to honor requirements and conditions set forth by a contract or agreement.A lapse can occur, for instance, due to inaction, the passage of time, or failure to pay what is due.A stock option lapses when not executed according to the terms of the option contract.Insurance rates are generally higher for policyholders with lapsed coverage.Most policies can be reinstated within the policy's grace period.


   Understanding Lapses  

When something has lapsed, the benefits and everything stated in the lapsed contract or agreement no longer remain active.



Lapse is most often used in the context of insurance, where the term implies a "lapse in coverage," a direct translation of how a lapsed policy no longer confers benefits or provides coverage. Lapsing can also occur in other contexts.


   Lapsed Insurance Policies  

When policyholders stop paying premiums and when the account value of the insurance policy has already been exhausted, the policy lapses. A policy does not lapse each and every time a premium payment is missed. Insurers are legally bound to give a grace period to policyholders before the policy falls into a lapse. The grace period is usually 30 days. Insurers provide policyholders a period of 30 days to pay for the missed premium deadline.



Whole life, variable universal life, and universal life (UL) insurance policies use existing cash values of policies if payments are missed. If policyholders still do not pay within the grace period, a policy may use its own account value to pay for the unpaid premiums. If the account value is not sufficient to pay for the policyholder’s premiums, then the policy will be considered lapsed. Once a policy lapses, the insurer is not under any legal obligation to provide the benefits stated in the policy.



Term life insurance does not have this benefit because it does not gain cash value. In this case, when premium payments are missed, the policy goes straight to the grace period and then falls into a lapse when the grace period is over.



Most insurers offer policyholders the benefit of reinstating a policy during a grace period. The requirements for reinstating a policy depend on the time that the policy has lapsed. For example, insurers do not require documentation or proof of health if the policyholder wants to reinstate a policy within 30 days after it lapsed. Documentation regarding health and finances may be required in cases where the lapsed period for a policy is between 30 days and six months. Any period longer than six months and up to five years would be dependent on the insurance company.


   Consequences of Lapsed Car Insurance  

Most states require drivers to have auto insurance. The consequences of driving without insurance can be great, even for those who can prove they have adequate finances to cover damages. Without insurance, assets, such as personal finances and real estate, are at risk.



Auto policies can lapse for various reasons, such as missed premium payments or too many driving infractions. Policyholders with lapsed policies are considered a higher risk for the insurance company. If a policy lapses because of accidents or driving violations, it is likely that these activities will continue with the new insurer. Also, missed premiums compromise the insurer's ability to properly cover losses.



Because of the increased risk to the insurer, premium rates increase for policyholders with lapsed coverage. For some, they may be deemed uninsurable, requiring them to obtain coverage from low-rated insurers. The longer the lapse in coverage, the higher the rate will be.



Some states impose penalties for lapsed coverage. For example, Alabama will suspend the driver's license and impose a $200 license reinstatement fee. If caught driving without insurance or without the minimum state limits, the driver could be required to obtain a court-ordered SR-22 certificate of financial responsibility, filed by the insurer. Because the SR-22 indicates a poor driving history, the insurance company will likely apply a higher rate for assuming the risk of insuring the driver.


   Lapses in Shares of Stocks  

Stock shares or stock options are sometimes granted to employees as a form of incentive compensation. These normally come with a restriction that stops employees from selling or trading shares for a particular period of time. These restrictions vary between companies and are mostly dependent on the vesting period or the duration of time that the employee has spent with the company. When the restrictions are lifted, employees become direct owners of the shares.



If the employee or grantee does not exercise the stock option within the specified time, the options lapse. In other words, the granted shares of stock are forfeited by the employee and return to the grantor or employer.



For example, an employer grants employees with 10 years of service the option to purchase 100 shares of stock at $20 per share. This option must be executed within 6 months. Some employees do not exercise their option to purchase shares within 6 months. Therefore, their option to purchase shares of stock lapses.


   Example of a Lapse  

Let's say that Sam has a term life insurance policy with a $1 million death benefit that requires payment of a $100 monthly premium for a period of 10 years. For the first two years of the policy, Sam makes the monthly payments for the policy as required. After two years, however, Sam is laid off and can no longer afford to make the payments. The grace period on the policy is 30 days over, but Sam still cannot pay the premiums due; as a result, the policy lapses. If Sam were to pass away at this point, there would be no insurance coverage.






A lapse ratio, or expiration ratio, is a measure of policies issued by an insurance company that are not renewed compared to the number of policies that were active at the beginning of that same period. The ratio serves as an important indicator in the insurance industry because it reveals how efficient a company is at retaining its customers and earnings.



Shortly thereafter, Sam finds another job and requests that the insurance company reinstate the policy. The insurer agrees and Sam resumes paying the premiums, thus restoring the lapsed coverage.


   Lapse FAQs  
  What Percentage of Life Insurance Policies Lapse?  

As of 2018, the lapse rate for individual life insurance policies was 4.7% and for group policies was 5%.


  How Does a Lapse in Coverage Affect My Car Insurance Rates?  

A lapse in auto coverage generally results in higher rates being applied. The longer the lapse, the higher the rate. For example, drivers with policies that have lapsed for up to 30 days see an 8% increase in auto insurance rates. For those with lapses greater than 30 days, the rate increase is about 35%.


  Does an Insurance Lapse Affect Your Credit Score?  

Most policies lapse without affecting credit. However, if the policyholder owes the insurer for coverage, the insurer may report the debt to a collection agency. Under those circumstances, the lapse can precipitate a decrease in the policyholder's credit score.


   The Bottom Line  

A lapse in coverage can occur for many reasons, with the most common being missed premium payments. Lapses translate into higher risks for insurers and, as a result, higher rates for policyholders. If facing a possible lapse in coverage, contact your insurer to see what options are available to prevent it.
What Does Large-Cap (Big Cap) Mean?  

Large-cap (sometimes called "big cap") refers to a company with a market capitalization value of more than $10 billion. Large cap is a shortened version of the term "large market capitalization." Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the number of a company's shares outstanding by its stock price per share. A company's stock is generally classified as large-cap, mid-cap, small-cap, or micro-cap.





Key Takeaways

Large-cap (sometimes called "big cap") refers to a company with a market capitalization value of more than $10 billion.Large-cap is a shortened version of the term "large market capitalization."Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the number of a company's shares outstanding by its stock price per share.Large-cap stocks represent a significant portion of the U.S. equity market and are often used as core portfolio holdings.


   Large Cap (Big Cap) Explained  

Large-cap stocks represent approximately 98.5% of the total U.S. equities market as measured by the Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index, which only includes companies with a minimum of $25 million float-adjusted market cap. As of April. 30, 2021, the Index has over 3,500 stocks representing the entire U.S. equity market universe.



As of March 2021, the top U.S. stocks by market cap included the following:



Apple (AAPL)
Saudi Aramco (2222.SR)
Microsoft (MSFT)
Amazon (AMZN)
Alphabet (GOOGL & GOOG)
Meta (META), formerly Facebook
Tencent (TME)
Tesla (TLSA)
Alibaba Group (BABA)
Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A)



Globally, large-cap companies are usually found in the market’s leading benchmark indexes. In the U.S., these indexes include the S&P 500, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and the Nasdaq Composite.



Since large-cap stocks represent a significant portion of the U.S. equity market, they are often utilized as core portfolio investments. Characteristics often associated with large-cap stocks include the following:



1. Transparent: Large-cap companies are typically transparent, making it easy for investors to find and analyze public information about them.



2. Dividend payers: Large-cap, stable, established companies are often the companies investors choose for dividend income distributions. Their mature market establishment has allowed them to establish and commit to high dividend payout ratios.



3. Stable and impactful: Large-cap stocks are typically blue-chip companies at peak business cycle phases, generating established and stable revenue and earnings. They tend to move with the market economy because of their size. They are also market leaders. They produce innovative solutions often with global market operations, and market news about these companies is typically impactful to the broad market overall.






   Market Capitalization  

Market capitalization describes the market size of a company. Market capitalization is an equity market segregation used broadly in the investment industry. A company's market capitalization is an important characteristic considered by investment companies and individual investors. Market capitalization is one characteristic of a company used in investment analysis. Market capitalization is usually used in conjunction with other stock characteristics, such as price to earnings and earnings growth estimates. It is also an indicator of a company's market depth.



Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the number of shares outstanding by the share price of the company's stock. The number of shares outstanding is reported on a quarterly basis, but the price of the stock can change from minute to minute. Therefore, the market capitalization value is actively changing with the market price. For example, a company with 10 billion shares outstanding, trading at $10 per share, has a market capitalization of $100 billion. Likewise, a company with 100 billion shares outstanding, and trading at a price of $1, also has a market capitalization of $100 billion.



Publicly traded stock issuance is used as a capital raising mechanism for publicly traded companies. When a company chooses to offer its shares for trading on the open public market, it typically uses share issuance as its primary equity capital raising tool. Thus, equity share management is a primary function used by well-established companies for capital, and shares outstanding are a part of that management process.


   Market Capitalization Categories  

Typically, stocks are lumped into three main categories of capitalization: large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap. However, mega-cap and micro-cap stock segregation may also be used. Mega-cap refers to stocks with a market cap of greater than $200 billion. Micro-cap is less than $300 million, and nano-cap may also be used for less than $50 million.



A large-cap company has a market capitalization of over $10 billion. A mid-cap company has a market capitalization between $2 billion and $10 billion, and a small-cap company has less than $2 billion in market capitalization. Large-cap companies usually have broader market issuance experience with greater access to the capital markets. Usually, large-caps have the greatest trading liquidity.


   Investing in Large-Cap Stocks  

Investors like to diversify their portfolios by investing in companies in different industries with varying market caps, revenues, and earnings growth projections. Due to their size, large-cap stocks are generally believed to be safer. While they do not offer the same growth opportunities as emerging mid-cap and small-cap companies, large-cap companies are innovative market leaders. As a result, their stock price can gain significantly through specific market initiatives or around groundbreaking market solutions.



Typically, investing in large-cap companies is used as a core long-term investment strategy within a portfolio because of their stability and dividends. Financial advisers usually suggest diversifying an investment portfolio by including small-cap, mid-cap, and large-cap stocks. Allocations and investment decisions are typically based on risk tolerance and investment horizons.
What Is a Large Trader?  

A large trader is an investor or organization with trades that are equal to or exceed certain amounts as specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). A large trader is defined by the SEC as "a person whose transactions in National Market System (NMS) securities equal or exceed two million shares or $20 million during any calendar day, or 20 million shares or $200 million during any calendar month."



Any market participant who is, by definition, a large trader must identify themselves to the SEC and submit Form 13H, "Large Trader Registration: Information Required of Large Traders Pursuant to Section 13(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules Thereunder."





Key Takeaways

A large trader is an investor or organization whose trades equal or exceed volume and market value thresholds established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).Large traders are generally professional market participants and institutional investors that have the ability to buy and sell large blocks of securities.Mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds, banks, and insurance companies often fall into the category of large traders.The SEC identifies large traders as any trader whose transactions in National Market Securities (NMS) equals or exceeds two million shares or $20 million during any calendar day, or 20 million shares or $200 million during any calendar month.The SEC monitors the activity of large traders in order to analyze the impact of their activity on the markets, to identify activity that breaks securities laws, and to protect investors from manipulative market practices.


   Understanding Large Traders  

The SEC initiated large trader reporting pursuant to the Market Reform Act of 1990 and in response to the development of trading technology that enables trading in substantial volumes and fast execution speeds. Large traders are typically professional market participants and large institutional investors such as mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds, banks, and insurance companies.



Large traders have the ability to buy and sell large blocks of securities, such as stocks and bonds. In the Market Reform Act of 1990, the SEC cited the rising prominence of large traders and high-frequency traders (HFTs) in the markets and the need for improved access to their trading activity in NMS securities.


   Large Trader Reporting  

Large trader reporting is intended to help the SEC identify individuals engaged in significant market activity and analyze the impact of their trading activity on the market. It also aids in SEC investigations and enforcement activities. As of 2011, the SEC requires that all traders who execute a substantial amount of trading activity, as measured by volume or market value, identify themselves to the SEC by registering with the SEC through Form 13H.



The SEC assigns each large trade an identification number, collects information, and analyzes each large trader's trading activity. The SEC assigns large traders a Large Trader Identification Number (LTID), which must be furnished to their respective broker-dealers. The large trader must also identify to which accounts the LTID applies.



Registered broker-dealers must maintain records of their traders' LTIDs and executed transaction times, as well as monitor their clients' accounts for activity qualifying as large trading. Also, they must report transactions by large traders that equal or exceed the activity level or aggregate transactions in NMS securities. The SEC may request details of transactions, to which the broker-dealer must comply by transmitting information through the Electronic Blue Sheets (EBS) system.






The SEC uses the information gathered from the Electronic Blue Sheets system to analyze the causes of trading volatility and to determine if large traders are breaking any securities laws, such as those associated with insider trading.


   Special Considerations  

Large traders must submit an initial filing through Form 13H and an annual filing for each applicable calendar year. In addition to annual updates, large traders are allowed to submit quarterly updates to the SEC if their information has changed or is inaccurate.



A large trader who has not conducted the identifying amount of trading activity as measured by volume or market value may file for inactive status and can remain inactive and exempt from the filing requirements until the large trader trading level is made again. Those wanting to terminate their status must report the termination of its operations as a large trader on Form 13H during the next filing period.
Larry Ellison co-founded the software giant Oracle Corp. (ORCL) in 1977. Under his leadership, Oracle grew from a start-up with three programmers into the largest database software supplier and the second-largest supplier of business applications.



Oracle’s rapid growth under Ellison's leadership relied on his impressive track record in identifying and conquering new markets. Oracle also grew by acquiring other software companies, including Sun Microsystems for $7.4 billion in 2010 and NetSuite for $9.3 billion in 2016. Since relinquishing the CEO post in 2014, Ellison has served as chair of the board and chief technology officer.





Key Takeaways

Larry Ellison founded Oracle, the software company that created the first commercially viable relational database.Under his leadership, Oracle became the largest supplier of database software and the second-largest supplier of business applications globally.Despite notable setbacks, the company grew steadily until 1992, when its Oracle 7 release swept the market and made Ellison a billionaire.Ellison relinquished the CEO post at Oracle in 2014; he currently serves as board chair and chief technology officer.According to Bloomberg, Ellison was the 5th richest person in the world, with a net worth of $124 billion, as of June 10, 2023.












Alison Czinkota / Investopedia


   Early Life and Education  

Born in New York City in 1944 to an unmarried teenage mother, Ellison was adopted by his mother’s aunt and uncle, who raised him in Chicago's South Side. After dropping out of the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago without a degree, Ellison spent almost a decade writing computer code for clients, including tech companies Ampex and Amdahl, where he worked on the first IBM-compatible mainframe system.


   Notable Accomplishments  

The idea that launched Oracle came to Ellison while reading about relational databases in an IBM research paper that proposed a new way of organizing large volumes of data to make the information easy to access. Although IBM had not yet taken the idea out of the research stage, Ellison immediately saw the enormous commercial potential of relational databases to transform how enterprises operate.


  Founding Oracle  

In 1977, Ellison and his former Ampex colleagues, Bob Miner and Ed Oates, used $2,000 of their own money to found Software Development Laboratories, which later became Oracle. Over the next two years, Ellison and his team built the first commercial structured query language (SQL) for managing large relational databases.



Key to their early success was winning a $50,000 contract from the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in 1978 to develop a relational database management system (RDBMS), a project code-named Oracle. When Oracle 2, the first commercial relational database, was released in 1979, the CIA was among the earliest customers. In renaming Software Development Laboratories in 1983, Ellison took the Oracle name from this early contract for the CIA.


  IPO and Oracle 7  

After taking Oracle public in 1986, Ellison navigated the company through major turmoil, including its first quarterly loss in 1990 and revelations about deceptive sales accounting that sank the share price.



The outlook improved in 1992 with the release of popular database software called Oracle 7, which won over the market. Banks, corporations, governments, airlines, automakers, and retailers all depended on Oracle 7. Despite the dot-com bubble burst in the late 90s, Oracle's stock prices more than tripled from 1999 to the end of 2007, then continued climbing through the Great Financial Crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic.


  Strategic Acquisitions  

Another driver of Oracle’s growth under Ellison’s leadership was the series of strategic software acquisitions that allowed the company to enter new markets: Sun Microsystems (information technology); Hyperion Solutions (business intelligence); Retek (retail); Siebel Systems (customer relationship management); and PeopleSoft (human resources, financial, supply chain, enterprise performance, customer relationship management).


  Oracle Cloud Infrastructure  

By 2020, Ellison had positioned Oracle’s network architecture to handle the explosive growth of cloud-based enterprise tech companies during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. In April 2020, Zoom Video Communications Inc. (ZM), the enterprise video communications leader, chose Oracle Cloud Infrastructure to support the increased demand for its services.


  Outmaneuvering Rivals  

Ellison has a record of outmaneuvering rivals by identifying and cornering new markets they overlooked. In the 1980s, when IBM began to develop SQL software to compete with Oracle, he took advantage of the fact that the SQL products that IBM was developing worked only with IBM servers. Ellison prioritized the emerging market for relational database systems that would run on any of the new computers targeting business and government users.


  The Advent of the Internet  

Ellison was also one of the first to anticipate the revolutionary impact that the internet would have on the business world. Starting in 1997, Ellison began to focus Oracle exclusively on essential business software platforms for the internet. It was a strategy that risked alienating customers unprepared for the shift. Yet it positioned the company to profit from the dot-com boom. By 2000, Oracle was one of the biggest names in Silicon Valley—and Ellison briefly supplanted Bill Gates as the world's richest person.




Why Is Larry Ellison a Business Legend?
After dropping out of two universities in the 1960s, Ellison founded a company in 1977 that would later become Oracle. Under his leadership, Oracle has grown into a mammoth firm that employs over 135,000 people and boasted annual revenues of $40 billion in 2021. In addition to driving the massive growth of his company since its founding, Ellison has defined how the global business sector uses big data by developing and launching products used by all of the 100 largest public companies worldwide and by 430,000 customers in 175 countries.




What Is Larry Ellison’s Net Worth?
As of May 4, 2022, Ellison ranked 11th on the list of the wealthiest people in the world, with a net worth of $124 billion, according to Bloomberg. Ellison is known for extravagant spending, including buying 98% of the Hawaiian island of Lanai, spending $194 million on a yacht, and investing hundreds of millions of dollars in luxury real estate in Malibu, California. He also built a California estate modeled after 16th-century Japanese feudal architecture.




What Are Larry Ellison’s Charitable Causes?
Ellison has donated hundreds of millions of dollars to medical research and education, including $200 million to the University of Southern California for a cancer treatment research center in 2016. He also signed the Giving Pledge in 2010, a campaign launched by Warren Buffett to encourage fellow billionaires to contribute most of their wealth to charitable causes.


   The Bottom Line  

Larry Ellison is a visionary business leader who built Oracle from a start-up into one of the world's most valuable companies, with fiscal year 2022 sales of more than $42 billion and a market capitalization of more than $296 billion on June 11, 2023.



Ellison positioned Oracle for dominance by developing a broad range of integrated software packages: from relationship databases, applications, servers, and storage to the cloud.



When Ellison predicted in the 1990s that the internet would be the future of computing, he led the industry in developing internet-compatible business applications, giving Oracle a distinct advantage.
What Is Last In, First Out (LIFO)?  

Last in, first out (LIFO) is a method used to account for business inventory that records the most recently produced items in a series as the ones that are sold first. That is, the cost of the most recent products purchased or produced is the first to be expensed as cost of goods sold (COGS), while the cost of older products, which is often lower, will be reported as inventory.



Two alternative methods of inventory costing include first in, first out (FIFO), in which the oldest inventory items are recorded as sold first, and the average cost method, which takes the weighted average of all units available for sale during the accounting period and uses that average cost to determine COGS and ending inventory.





Key Takeaways

Last in, first out (LIFO) is a method used to account for inventory.Under LIFO, the costs of the most recent products purchased (or produced) are the first to be expensed.LIFO is used only in the United States and is permitted under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).LIFO accounting can minimize taxable income during years in which inflation is driving up the costs of doing business. 


   Understanding Last In, First Out (LIFO)  

Last in, first out (LIFO) is only used in the United States where any of the three inventory-costing methods can be used under generally accepted accounting principles. (GAAP). The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which is used in most countries, forbids the use of the LIFO method.



Most companies that use LIFO inventory valuations need to maintain large inventories, such as retailers and auto dealerships. The method allows them to take advantage of lower taxable income and higher cash flow when their expenses are rising.



Most U.S. public companies prefer to use FIFO. If a company uses a LIFO valuation when it files taxes, it must also use LIFO when it reports financial results to its shareholders, which lowers its net income.


   LIFO, Inflation, and Net Income  

When there is zero inflation, all three inventory-costing methods produce the same result. But if inflation is high, the choice of accounting method can dramatically affect valuation ratios. FIFO, LIFO, and average cost have different impacts:



FIFO provides a better indication of the value of ending inventory on the balance sheet, but it also increases net income because inventory that might be several years old is used to value COGS. Increasing net income sounds good, but it can increase the taxes that a company must pay.
LIFO is not a good indicator of ending inventory value because it may understate the value of inventory. LIFO results in lower net income (and taxes) because COGS is higher. However, there are fewer inventory write-downs under LIFO during inflation.
Average cost produces results that fall somewhere between FIFO and LIFO.



In times of deflation, the complete opposite of the above is true.


   Example of LIFO  

Assume company A has 10 widgets. The first five widgets cost $100 each and arrived two days ago. The last five widgets cost $200 each and arrived one day ago. Based on the LIFO method of inventory management, the last widgets in are the first ones to be sold. Seven widgets are sold, but how much can the accountant record as a cost?



Each widget has the same sales price, so revenue is the same. But the cost of the widgets is based on the inventory method selected.



Based on the LIFO method, the last inventory in is the first inventory sold. This means the widgets that cost $200 sold first. The company then sold two more of the $100 widgets. In total, the cost of the widgets under the LIFO method is $1,200, or five at $200 and two at $100.



In contrast, using the FIFO method, the $100 widgets are sold first, followed by the $200 widgets. So, the cost of the widgets sold will be recorded as $900, or five at $100 and two at $200.



This is why LIFO creates higher costs and lowers net income in times of inflation. It also reduces taxable income.



In periods of deflation, LIFO creates lower costs and increases net income, which also increases taxable income.




Which Is Better, LIFO or FIFO?
That depends on the business you're in, and whether you run a public company. The LIFO method decreases net income on paper. That reduces the taxes you owe assuming that inflation is at work. If you're running a public company, lower earnings may not impress your shareholders.Most companies that use LIFO are those that are forced to maintain a large amount of inventory at all times. By offsetting sales income with their highest purchase prices, they produce less taxable income on paper.




Which Is Easier, LIFO or FIFO?
They don't differ in complexity. You can find an online calculator for either or both from sites such as OMNI Calculator or the Corporate Finance Institute.




Why Is LIFO Accounting Banned in Most of the World?
LIFO is banned under the International Financial Reporting Standards that are used by most of the world because it minimizes taxable income. That only occurs when inflation is a factor, but governments still don't like it. It also can make a company's inventory valuations inaccurate. In addition, there is the risk that the earnings of a company that is being liquidated can be artificially inflated by the use of LIFO accounting in previous years.


   The Bottom Line  

Most companies use the first in, first out (FIFO) method of accounting to record their sales. The last in, first out (LIFO) method is suited to particular businesses in particular times. That is, it is used primarily by businesses that must maintain large and costly inventories, and it is useful only when inflation is rapidly pushing up their costs. It allows them to record lower taxable income at times when higher prices are putting stress on their operations.
What Is the Last Mile?  

The last mile describes the short geographical segment of delivery of communication and media services or the delivery of products to customers located in dense areas. Last mile logistics tend to be complex and costly to providers of goods and services who deliver to these areas.





Key Takeaways

The last mile refers to the short geographical distance that must be spanned to provide services to end-user customers.Last mile logistics tend to be complex and costly to providers of goods and services who deliver to these areas.In communications, the last mile is the relatively expensive and complex delivery of cables or wiring from the provider's trunk to one's home.Last mile logistics have become a big business and a central focus for both providers of services and consumers.Last mile logistics for product delivery have become a central focus for retailers in the e-commerce era.


   Understanding the Last Mile  

Delivery of telecommunications and media content is instantaneous and very fast for physical products to the perimeter of a densely populated area. Imagine a trunk line leading to the edge of a city or metropolitan area.



The branches and leaves must then spread out across the tightly packed buildings and streets to serve customers working and living there. The edge of the city to the customer inside the city is the last mile.



Communications and media providers—inclusive of broadband cable, satellite, and wireless—spend heavily to upgrade old delivery systems and build out new networks to ensure adequate bandwidth for consumers hungry for data and streaming capabilities on their televisions, desktop computers, and mobile devices.



It takes time for these service providers to implement technology solutions for the "last mile problem." Due to the rapidly changing nature of technology, these solutions are at risk of being obsolete, or not state-of-the-art, upon completion.


   Last Mile Logistics  

Last mile logistics for product delivery have become a central focus for retailers in the e-commerce era. Our instant-gratification society demands fast delivery of products ordered online. Retailers that can achieve this at low or no cost to the customer have competitive advantages.



Amazon utilizes third-party services and its own fleet of vehicles to deliver packages to its customers over the last mile. To compete, other retailers are investing more in setting up distribution centers as close as possible to metropolitan zones, and then contracting with UPS, USPS, FedEx, and local courier services to perform last mile delivery services.






In urban areas, deliveries to retail stores, restaurants, and other merchants in a central business district often contribute to congestion and safety problems, making the last mile even more challenging to execute.


   The Last Mile Problem and Cryptocurrencies  

The last mile problem has reemerged in the past few years in the context of cryptocurrencies. In particular, the last mile, in this case, refers to when a cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin is used in a cross-border payment such as a remittance.



The recipient of the Bitcoin must find a way to exchange it for local currency in order to use it. Thus, while crypto transactions can provide a quick, efficient, and cost-effective way of sending remittances, the last mile problem still stands in the way in many less-developed countries.




What Does Last Mile Mean?
Last mile refers to the last stage in a process, especially of a customer buying goods. When it is used in the context of transportation, supply chain, manufacturing, and retailing, the last mile is used to describe the delivery of products as the last leg of transportation.




Why Is There a Last Mile Problem?
In supply chain management, the last mile describes the difficult last part of the transportation of packages from hubs to their final destinations. Some of the problems of last-mile delivery include minimizing cost, ensuring transparency, increasing efficiency, and improving infrastructure.The very last part of the delivery process of a product—from the last distribution center to the end customer—tends to be the most difficult because it can be the most complicated and expensive.




What Is the Last Mile in Terms of Internet Service?
In Internet industries, the last mile refers to the final leg of the telecommunications networks that deliver telecommunication services to customers. It is the portion of the telecommunications network chain that physically reaches the customer's premises.




Are the First Mile and the Last Mile Problems the Same?
The first mile problem is generally used in the context of public transit systems. The first/last mile is the distance between a traveler’s origin or destination and a transit station. Reducing this distance is considered to be the solution to both the first mile and the last mile problem.


   The Bottom Line  

The last mile refers to the last stage in the delivery of media communication or physical goods to a consumer. Last mile logistics can be costly and require a significant amount of planning to be timely and efficient.
What Is the Last Trading Day?  

The last trading day is the final day that a futures contract, or other derivatives with an expiry date, may trade or be closed out before the delivery of the underlying asset or cash settlement must occur. At the end of the last trading day, the contract holder must be prepared to accept delivery of the commodity or settle in cash if the position is not closed. The same concept applies to options contracts.



The last trading day is the final chance to close the position, otherwise the underlying will be delivered if applicable. If the option is worthless, then it does not need to be closed, it will simply expire.





Key Takeaways

The last trading day is the last day that a derivative contract trades. Typically the last trading day is the day before its actual expiration date.Expiration dates are provided in the contract specifications for a given derivative contract. Contract specifications are found on the exchange's website.Futures contracts not closed out on the last trading day will be subject to delivery and or cash settlement.Options contracts not closed out on the last trading day will be required to provide or take delivery of the underlying asset. Worthless contracts need not be closed.


   Understanding the Last Trading Day  

The last trading day is the day before a derivative expires. On the expiry date, the derivative is no longer tradable and the settlement process begins. Assume the expiration date on an options contract is Friday, March 22. The last trading is Thursday, March 21.



The last trading day is the final day that a futures contract can be traded or closed out. Any contracts outstanding at the end of the last day trading day must be settled by delivery of the underlying physical asset, exchange of financial instruments, or by agreeing to a monetary settlement. The specific agreements covering these potential outcomes are contained in the futures contract specifications and vary between securities.



In general, most futures contracts result in an exchange of financial instruments or a cash settlement rather than a delivery of the physical commodity since most market participants are hedging or speculating.



The last trading day for an option is the day before the expiration date. Holders of options on the expiry date will be required to deliver or receive the underlying, if applicable. Options that are worthless will expire and don't need to be closed out.



If an option buyer is holding a position that is in the money (ITM), they will receive shares and be required to put the capital and/or margin to purchase/short those shares. The option seller will need to provide those shares.






For some derivative contracts, trading is allowed on the expiry date up to a certain time of day. In this case, the last trading day is the expiry day.


   Last Trading Day Information  

Traders can find expiry dates in their derivative contract or by looking at various exchange websites for standard trade settlement details. Exchanges will have a web page that lists all of their futures and options contracts and their settlement dates and times.



Some popular futures and options exchanges in North America include:



CME Group
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE)
Montreal Exchange
CBOE Options Exchange (CBOE)



The last trading day is important for investors to note as it allows them to close out of the contract before expiration. Futures contracts also have several notice days which provide the investor with details on the approaching settlement. Notice days can vary by contract with the first notice day often three to five days before the last trading day.



If an investor’s contract position is not closed before the last trading day then they will be expected to proceed with delivery. Subsequently, they will receive delivery notices and be required to arrange for the final delivery of the underlying assets.


   Example of the Last Trading Day in a Futures Contract  

Suppose that a speculative futures trader purchases a gold futures contract with an expiration date of Aug. 27, 2021, which has a last trading day of Aug. 26, 2021. If the trader doesn't sell the contract by the end of the day on Aug. 26, the contract must be settled by delivery of the underlying asset. Most contracts also include a cash settlement option that relieves the two parties from the physical exchange or delivery of the underlying assets.



On the other hand, suppose a food production company purchases orange juice futures contracts with an expiry date of July 13, 2021. They may choose to take physical delivery of the orange juice since they can package it and sell it to customers or stores. After expiration, the production company would receive a delivery notice and be required to make arrangements for receipt of the orange juice. If they did not want to take physical delivery, then they would need to close the position on the last trading day, which in this case is July 12, 2021.
What Is Last Twelve Months (LTM)?  

Last twelve months (LTM) refers to the timeframe of the immediately preceding 12 months. It is also commonly designated as trailing twelve months (TTM). LTM is often used in reference to a financial metric used to evaluate a company's performance, such as revenues or debt to equity (D/E). Although a 12-month period is a relatively short time span for examining company performance, it is considered useful because it indicates a company's most recent performance, and is indicative of the company's current state. The terms "last twelve months" or "trailing twelve months" frequently appear in a company's earnings reports or other financial statements.


   Understanding Last Twelve Months (LTM)  

While in some respects, 12 months of data is less than adequate for investment evaluations, it is a long enough span of time to level out annual seasonal factors, possible short-term price fluctuations, and some market swings. Last twelve month figures provide updated metrics from the typical annual and quarterly figures reported by company management.



In reviewing figures shown as last twelve months or trailing twelve months, investors should not assume the figures necessarily coincide with a company's most recent fiscal year. In company financial statements, which are typically filed at the company's fiscal year-end, the last twelve month figures refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated, such as June 30 or December 31. For example, in a financial statement dated March 2015, last twelve month figures cover the period of time from April 1, 2014, through March 31, 2015.


   Using the Last Twelve Months Metrics  

In addition to being used to gauge the recent trend of a given company's performance, the last twelve month financial metrics are also frequently used to compare the relative performance of similar companies within an industry or sector. Financial metrics commonly considered by looking at last twelve month figures include a company's price-earnings (P/E) ratio and earnings per share (EPS).



In reviewing stocks, mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), the dividend yield figure for the last twelve months is often compared with the SEC yield figure, which reflects only the yield of the most recently paid dividend. Another instance where the last twelve months' figures are useful is when a company is being considered for acquisition. To arrive at a more accurate current value of a company, last twelve months’ figures are often preferable to the most recent fiscal year figures.
What Is a Last Will and Testament?  

A last will and testament is a legal document that communicates a person's final wishes pertaining to their assets. It provides specific instructions about what to do with their possessions. It will indicate whether the deceased leaves them to another person, a group, or wishes to donate them to charity.



A last will and testament can also handle matters involving dependents, the management of accounts, and financial interests.



Some states allow for non-standard or unusual wills, such as a holographic will, while others do not.





Key Takeaways

Having a last will and testament gives you some control over what happens to your assets after your death.If you die intestate, or without a will, your estate, including the distribution of all assets, is settled by the courts.If parents with children die without a will, the courts will appoint a guardian for those who are minors.Trusts and financial accounts. including life insurance policies, with named beneficiaries do not pass through probate court.Today, wills can be drafted affordably using an online will maker.


   How a Last Will and Testament Works  

A will and last testament directs the disposition of your assets, such as bank balances, property, or prized possessions. It will detail who is to receive property and in what amount. It can establish guardian arrangements for surviving dependents.



If you have a business or investments, your will can specify who will receive those assets and when. A will also allows you to direct assets to a charity (or charities) of your choice. Similarly, if you wish to leave assets to an institution or an organization, a will can assure that your wishes are carried out.



A person writes a will while living. Its instructions are only carried out once the individual dies. A will names an executor of the will. That person is responsible for administering the estate. A probate court usually supervises the executor to ensure that the wishes specified in the will are carried out.



A will and last testament can form the foundation of an estate plan and is the key instrument used to ensure that the estate is settled in the manner desired by the deceased.



While there can be more to an estate plan than just a will, the will is the presiding document that a probate court uses to guide the settling of an estate.



Any assets that have designated beneficiaries, such as a life insurance policy, qualified retirement plan, or brokerage account, are not included as probate assets and pass directly to the beneficiaries.



While many people obtain assistance with their wills from a lawyer, this is not necessary to make most wills legal and binding.


  What Shouldn't Be Included in a Will  

Property you hold jointly with someone elseFuneral plans: these should be in a separate document easily accessible after death by family or executorLife insurance policies and retirement accounts: these should have beneficiaries designated on the account forms so they bypass probate and flow directly to the intended recipients


   What a Will Doesn't Do  

There are several situations after death for which a will isn't useful.


  Disposition of Certain Property  

Property held in joint tenancy with someone else
Property assigned to a living trust
Life insurance policies with designated beneficiaries.
A pension plan, individual retirement account (IRA), 401(k) plan, or other retirement plan with designated beneficiaries.
Financial assets (such as stocks and bonds) held in accounts that already have completed beneficiary forms.
Money in a payable-on-death bank account.


  Avoiding Probate  

Any property that your will directs should go to certain beneficiaries, whether people or organizations, most likely will be tied up in probate court for months before it can be distributed according to your wishes.



In addition to time and effort, the probate process involves legal fees relating to a lawyer, the executor, and the court.


  Directing Funeral Arrangements  

A will shouldn't contain directions for funeral arrangements. That's because, normally, it won't be reviewed for some time after death. Be sure to leave instructions for funeral arrangements in a separate document that's easily accessed by the executor or a family member.


  Making Conditional Gifts  

Gifts that you bestow through a will can't come with strings attached in certain cases. For instance, they can't be contingent on the marriage, divorce, or change of religion of a recipient.


  Reducing Estate Taxes  

A will doesn't allow you to reduce or avoid taxes that will be owed on your estate.


  Leaving Money to Pets  

Pets can't own property, so if your dog, cat or other pet is important to you, you can consider leaving them to a trusted individual who will provide them with a loving home or find one for them. Your will can provide that person with money to help them care for your pet(s).


  Arranging Care for Someone With Special Needs  

To provide long-term care for a loved one with special needs, it's best to set up a special needs trust. The trust can direct the care and provide ongoing income, without affecting the benefits they can also receive through government programs.






Addenda to the will, such as a power of attorney or a medical directive, can direct the court on how to handle matters if a person becomes physically or mentally incapacitated.


   Last Will and Testament Requirements  
  Be of Sound Mind  

A valid will requires that you be over the age of majority, understand what property you have, and what it means to leave property to others after your death.


  Identify Assets and Beneficiaries  

A will requires you to identify the assets and property that are to be bequeathed as well as the identities of the intended recipients (known as named beneficiaries).


  Designate an Executor  

A will should designate an executor to carry out the will's instructions according to the wishes of the deceased.



Parents of minor children can also designate a legal guardian in their wills to care for them, should death come unexpectedly.


  Witnesses to Your Signature  

For a will to be considered valid, it must be signed. Many jurisdictions also require that the signing of a will be witnessed by at least two unrelated individuals, aged 18 or over. Check your state laws for this information.


   Types of Wills  

The four main types of wills are the simple will, the joint will, the testamentary trust will, and the living will.


  Simple Will  

Use a simple will to list your assets and the beneficiaries who should receive them. You can also designate the executor and a guardian for any minor children.



A simple will is one that can be done easily online using one of various templates. Be sure to get any legal advice you feel you need.


  Joint Will  

A joint will is one document that involves two people, generally spouses. When one dies, the will is executed in favor of the other spouse, as defined in the will. The provisions can't be changed by the surviving spouse, which can be a problem if that spouse's circumstances change.



Joint wills aren't as common as they once were because of this inflexibility.


  Testamentary Trust Will  

This will contains one or more testamentary trusts that take effect after your death and the probate process (unlike, for example, a living trust which takes effect during your lifetime). It is used in instances where special needs beneficiaries or minor children need specific care over a long period of time. The trust distributes all or a portion of your assets after you pass.


  Living Will  

This type of will only concerns your medical care and decision-making should you become incapacitated. It is a legal document that provides instructions for your care and, among other things, the termination of medical support.



It does not deal with a distribution of your property to beneficiaries or other such final wishes.



You don't need a lawyer to create a legally recognized and accepted living will. In fact, medical facilities or your state government can provide living will forms to you. Each state has specific legal requirements for valid living wills. Be sure that you understand them before creating one.


   Wills vs. Trusts  

Wills and trusts are both important estate-planning tools, but they differ in important ways. Trusts are legal entities created by individuals known as grantors (also known as trustors or settlors) that are assigned assets and instruct in the disposition of those assets. A trustee is designated by the trust document to manage and distribute those assets to beneficiaries, according to the wishes of the grantor as detailed in the document.



A trust can be created for a variety of functions, and there are many types of trusts. Overall, however, there are two categories: living and testamentary. A will can be used to create a testamentary trust. You can also create a revocable living trust for the primary purpose of avoiding probate court.



A will becomes active only after one's death. A trust, on the other hand, becomes active the day you create it. Trusts tend to be more expensive to create and maintain than wills. 



Importantly, unlike wills, trusts do not go through a probate process and are not usually a matter of public record. A trust, however, can only deal with property or assets that are assigned to it.















Wills vs. Trusts


Trusts vs. Wills
Names Guardianship of Minor Children
Can be Challenged in Court
Probate Court
Rules Around Inheritance
Active upon Signing
Can be Revised
Private or Public Record




Trusts
No
Not usually
No
Yes
Yes
Yes, if revocable
Private


Wills 
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
Public





   How to Create a Will  

Here are the steps to take to create a will.



Consider whether you'll work with an estate lawyer in a traditional manner to create your will or create it using an online service. Establish contact to get the process moving.Decide on the assets that you want to include in your will.Name your beneficiaries and the property each should receive.Designate an executor. Be sure to get their consent first.If you have minor children, appoint a guardian for them. Again, obtain their agreement beforehand.Sign your will. Two witnesses to your signing are required in most states and some may require more (check your state's laws on this and whether your will must be notarized).Store your will safely. Consider a safe deposit box at your local bank and make sure your executor is legally authorized by the bank to access it.Periodically review your will and make updates to it as needed.



Creating a will can often be a simple and inexpensive process where you fill out a form online without the help of an estate planning attorney. Online will makers allow you to draft, print, and sign your last will and testament via an online or downloaded document creator.



This is a more cost-effective way to establish will and trust documents compared to going to an attorney or in-person legal service. Most online will makers walk users through a series of questions to populate the required fields.






There are important distinctions between a will and a trust. Unlike a will, which can sometimes be written on one's own or using an online will maker, trusts normally are created with the assistance of a qualified attorney.


   Consequences of Not Having a Will  

When a person dies without a valid will, it is said that they have died intestate. This means that the state becomes the executor of the estate. It decides how to distribute the property and who receives payment first, without consideration for a family’s circumstances.



Any blood relative can stake a claim to the estate. The court can even establish guardianship arrangements based on its determination of the best interests of the children.



The probate laws in most states divide property among the surviving spouse and children of the deceased. For example, a resident of Arizona, New Mexico, California, Texas, Idaho, Nevada, Washington, Louisiana, or Wisconsin who dies without a valid will will have their estate divided according to the community property laws of the state. Community property laws recognize both spouses as joint property owners.



In effect, the distribution hierarchy starts with the surviving spouse, who almost invariably receives at least half the decedent's estate. They may receive the entire estate if the decedent leaves no living children or grandchildren.



If the decedent is unmarried or widowed at the time of death, assets will be divided among any surviving children before any other relative. If no next of kin can be located, the assets in the estate will become the property of the state.




Where Can I Find a Last Will and Testament Maker Online?
Investopedia has reviewed several top online will makers. To suggest the best, we've taken into consideration ease of use, availability in all states, and the ability to update information easily. 




What Is a Codicil to a Last Will and Testament?
A codicil is an addendum of any kind to a will. It is a separate document that references and amends the will. Codicils allow one to change, add to, or remove provisions in a will. These changes can be made to keep a will and testament up to date, especially as personal circumstances change over time. Codicils can only be created by the original creator of the will.




What's the Difference Between a Last Will and Testament and a Living Will?
A living will does not have anything to do with the transfer of assets upon death. Also known as a healthcare directive, this legal document allows an individual (while they are alive and mentally capable) to empower another person to make decisions about their medical care if the person signing the living will becomes incapacitated. Healthcare proxies can communicate with the patient's doctors to prevent unwanted treatments and make sound decisions on their behalf.




How Much Does a Last Will and Testament Cost?
Cost depends on the nature of one's estate and how complex the process of designating beneficiaries may be. A basic will can be drafted for free by an individual on their own. Online will makers range from tens to hundreds of dollars depending on scope. Hiring a lawyer can cost hundreds to thousands of dollars.


   The Bottom Line  

A last will and testament is a fundamental legal document in an individual's estate plan. It lays out a person's final wishes pertaining to their assets. It provides specific instructions about how to distribute their possessions.



There are certain things a will cannot accomplish for a person, such as help a family avoid probate or reduce estate taxes.



Wills can be simple to create but have requirements that must be addressed in order for them to be considered valid. Please check your state laws regarding a last will and testament to be sure you take the right steps when creating yours.
What Is a Late Fee?  

The term late fee refers to a charge that lenders and other companies often impose on consumers when they fail to make an on-time payment on a debt, such as a loan or credit card, or any other type of financial agreement, such as an insurance or rental contract.



Late fees encourage consumers to pay by the due date and should be specified in the contract or other agreement. Borrowers must be notified about any changes to late fees in advance, and in writing, by the lender.





Key Takeaways

A late fee is a charge imposed on a consumer who fails to make the payment on a debt or other financial obligation by the due date.All late fees must be explicitly outlined to borrowers and must also be reasonable.Late fees generally range from $25 to $50.Late fees can increase account balances and can hurt a consumer's credit history.


   How Late Fees Work  

Lenders and other creditors make money in a variety of ways, including by charging consumers a wide assortment of fees. Late fees are one of those.



Late fees are imposed on people who don't pay a bill by a certain date. For instance, a credit card holder who fails to make their monthly payment—at least the minimum—by the due date can incur a late fee that will show up on their next statement. Or a landlord may charge a tenant a late fee for not paying their rent on time.



All late fees must be explicitly described in credit card agreements, leases, or any other type of contract. Creditors legally can't charge excessive late fees, which means they must be reasonable, although what constitutes a "reasonable" fee is open to debate. In most cases, late fees typically range between $25 and $50.



Some creditors may provide a grace period before they impose the late fee. For instance, rent may be due for an apartment on the first of every month. But the landlord might allow the tenant to pay their rent by the 10th of the month without incurring a late fee. If rent is paid on the 11th or any day after that, the landlord might charge the tenant a late fee in addition to the outstanding rent. As noted, this must be clearly stated in the lease agreement.



Some creditors may waive the late fee the first time a consumer misses the payment deadline, while others do not charge any late fees at all. Still other lenders offer no leniency and charge a late fee even if a borrower just misses the payment deadline, even by a matter of minutes or hours.



Late fees can increase a borrower's outstanding account balance. For example, a late fee may be added to the next month's credit card statement. Not only does that raise the balance by the amount of the late fee, but the borrower may now have to pay interest in the late fee, as well.



Missing a payment due date can also have a negative impact on a person's credit history and credit score. That's because payment history plays a major role in credit scoring models, making up about 35% of a person's FICO score, for example. So, the more payments a person misses, the more they will have to pay in late fees, and they can also expect their credit score to take a hit.






It's important to make your payments on time not only to avoid late fees but also because your payment history makes up about 35% of your FICO credit score.


   How to Avoid Late Fees and Other Penalties  

In addition to paying close attention to when payments are due, consumers can often avoid late fees by arranging for their bills to be paid automatically from their bank account. This depends, of course, on their having enough money in the account to cover the payment.



It's always a good idea to pay a credit card on time and in full each month to avoid interest charges. But if a borrower can't pay off the full balance, making at least the minimum monthly payment on time will help them avoid a late fee.



In some cases, late payments can also trigger other charges. For example, if a borrower's checking account does not have enough money to cover a credit card payment, not only will the payment still be considered late, but the cardholder can also incur a returned payment fee from the credit card issuer as well as a non-sufficient funds (NSF) fee from the bank.



Lenders may also review and raise interest rates based on payment history. This is referred to as penalty repricing. When that happens, the lender will raise the borrower's interest rate to the penalty annual percentage rate (APR) described in the credit agreement, which may be considerably higher.



Late fees are just one of several fees banks and other companies charge consumers. For instance, credit card users can also be subject to annual fees, balance transfer fees, foreign transaction fees, and returned payment fees. These fees are avoidable if the cardholder carefully selects their credit cards in the first place (not all cards impose every fee), follows the contract terms, and avoids doing things that result in such fees.


   Cracking Down on "Junk" Late Fees  

In March 2023, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) reported that excessive credit card late fees alone "cost American families about $12 billion each year."



Under the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (also known as the CARD Act), late fees must be "reasonable and proportional" to the costs that credit card issuers incur as a result of late payments. But the CFPB report, noting that late fees currently range as high as $41, estimates that "the income generated by the largest issuers from late fees is approximately five times greater than the collection costs that the companies incur." It is proposing that fees be capped at $8 and that they not exceed 25% of the consumer's required payment if that's less.



The CFPB report also described what it characterized as "junk fees" related to other types of borrowing. Some auto lenders, it said, illegally charged late fees in excess of the amount spelled out in their loan agreements. For example, an auto loan servicer might "assess a $25 late fee even though some consumers' loan notes capped late fees at no more than 5% of the monthly payment amount. The $25 late fee exceeded 5% of many consumers’ monthly payment amounts," the report noted.



In the case of mortgages, the CFPB reported that some servicers not only charged late fees in excess of the amount that the mortgage contract called for, but even "charged consumers latefees after sending periodic statements representing that they would not charge late fees."



Student loan servicers had a different issue, according to the CFPB. Their customer service representatives would sometimes accept a loan payment by credit card over the phone , then reverse the payment after learning that the servicer did not accept credit card payments. At that point, the well-intentioned borrower would be slapped with a late fee.



The moral here: If you're charged a late fee, check your contract to make sure it isn't higher than it should be.




How Much Can a Landlord Charge a Renter for Paying Late?
That depends on the laws in your state. A 2022 report found that some states impose no limits other than that the late fee be "reasonable." Others limit it to some percentage of the rent that's due, with 7.7% being the average, or to a dollar figure, or to some combination of these.




How Long Do Late Payments Stay on Your Credit Report?
Late payments can remain on your credit reports for up to seven years.




Does the Internal Revenue Service Charge Late Fees?
Yes, the IRS can impose what it calls a "failure to pay penalty." The penalty is "0.5% of the unpaid taxes for each month or part of a month the tax remains unpaid. The penalty won’t exceed 25% of your unpaid taxes," the agency says.


   The Bottom Line  

Late fees are annoying, often excessive, and sometimes illegal. To avoid them, try to pay all of your bills on time; arranging for automatic payments through your bank can help. If you incur a late fee by accident, and aren't habitually late with your payments, the creditor may be willing to waive it if you ask.
What Is the Law of Demand?  

The law of demand is one of the most fundamental concepts in economics. It works with the law of supply to explain how market economies allocate resources and determine the prices of goods and services that we observe in everyday transactions.



The law of demand states that the quantity purchased varies inversely with price. In other words, the higher the price, the lower the quantity demanded. This occurs because of diminishing marginal utility. That is, consumers use the first units of an economic good they purchase to serve their most urgent needs first, then they use each additional unit of the good to serve successively lower-valued ends.





Key Takeaways

The law of demand is a fundamental principle of economics that states that at a higher price, consumers will demand a lower quantity of a good.Demand is derived from the law of diminishing marginal utility, the fact that consumers use economic goods to satisfy their most urgent needs first.A market demand curve expresses the sum of quantity demanded at each price across all consumers in the market.Changes in price can be reflected in movement along a demand curve, but by themselves, they do not increase or decrease demand.The shape and magnitude of demand shifts in response to changes in consumer preferences, incomes, or related economic goods, NOT to changes in price.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Understanding the Law of Demand  

Economics involves the study of how people use limited means to satisfy unlimited wants. The law of demand focuses on those unlimited wants. Naturally, people prioritize more urgent wants and needs over less urgent ones in their economic behavior, and this carries over into how people choose among the limited means available to them. For any economic good, the first unit of that good that a consumer gets their hands on will tend to be used to satisfy the most urgent need the consumer has that that good can satisfy.



For example, consider a castaway on a desert island who obtains a six-pack of bottled fresh water washed up onshore. The first bottle will be used to satisfy the castaway’s most urgently felt need, most likely drinking water to avoid dying of thirst. The second bottle might be used for bathing to stave off disease, an urgent but less immediate need. The third bottle could be used for a less urgent need, such as boiling some fish to have a hot meal, and on down to the last bottle, which the castaway uses for a relatively low priority like watering a small potted plant to keep him company on the island.



In our example, because each additional bottle of water is used for a successively less highly valued want or need by our castaway, we can say that the castaway values each additional bottle less than the one before. Similarly, when consumers purchase goods on the market, each additional unit of any given good or service that they buy will be put to a less valued use than the one before, so we can say that they value each additional unit less and less. Because they value each additional unit of the good less, they are willing to pay less for it. So the more units of a good that consumers buy, the less they are willing to pay in terms of the price.



By adding up all the units of a good that consumers are willing to buy at any given price, we can describe a market demand curve, which is always sloping downward, like the one shown in the chart below. Each point on the curve (A, B, C) reflects the quantity demanded (Q) at a given price (P). At point A, for example, the quantity demanded is low (Q1) and the price is high (P1). At higher prices, consumers demand less of the good, and at lower prices, they demand more.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 


   Demand vs. Quantity Demanded  

In economic thinking, it is important to understand the difference between the phenomenon of demand and the quantity demanded. In the chart, the term “demand” refers to the light blue line plotted through A, B, and C. It expresses the relationship between the urgency of consumer wants and the number of units of the economic good at hand. A change in demand means a shift of the position or shape of this curve; it reflects a change in the underlying pattern of consumer wants and needs vis-à-vis the means available to satisfy them.



On the other hand, the term “quantity demanded” refers to a point along the horizontal axis. Changes in the quantity demanded strictly reflect changes in the price, without implying any change in the pattern of consumer preferences. Changes in quantity demanded just mean movement along the demand curve itself because of a change in price. These two ideas are often conflated, but this is a common error—rising (or falling) prices do not decrease (or increase) demand; they change the quantity demanded.


   Factors Affecting Demand  

So what does change demand? The shape and position of the demand curve can be impacted by several factors. Rising incomes tend to increase demand for normal economic goods, as people are willing to spend more. The availability of close substitute products that compete with a given economic good will tend to reduce demand for that good, since they can satisfy the same kinds of consumer wants and needs. Conversely, the availability of closely complementary goods will tend to increase demand for an economic good, because the use of two goods together can be even more valuable to consumers than using them separately, like peanut butter and jelly.



Other factors such as future expectations, changes in background environmental conditions, or changes in the actual or perceived quality of a good can change the demand curve because they alter the pattern of consumer preferences for how the good can be used and how urgently it is needed.


   Law of Supply  

Supply is the total amount of a specific good or service that is available to consumers at a certain price point. As the supply of a product fluctuates, so does the demand, which directly affects the price of the product. The law of supply, then, is a microeconomic law stating that, all other factors being equal, as the price of a good or service rises, the quantity that suppliers offer will rise in turn (and vice versa). Ergo, when demand exceeds the available supply, the price of a product will typically rise. Conversely, should the supply of an item increase while the demand remains the same, the price will go down.




What is a simple explanation of the law of demand?
The law of demand tells us that if more people want to buy something, given a limited supply, the price of that thing will be bid higher. Likewise, the higher the price of a good, the lower the quantity that will be purchased by consumers.




Why is the law of demand important?
Together with the law of supply, the law of demand helps us understand why things are priced at the level that they are, and to identify opportunities to buy what are perceived to be underpriced (or sell overpriced) products, assets, or securities. For instance, a firm may boost production in response to rising prices that have been spurred by a surge in demand.




Can the law of demand be broken?
Yes. In certain cases, an increase in demand does not affect prices in ways predicted by the law of demand. For instance, so-called Veblen goods are things for which demand increases as their price rises, as these are perceived as status symbols. Similarly, demand for Giffen goods (which, in contrast to Veblen goods, are not luxury items) rises when the price rises and falls when the price falls. Examples of Giffen goods can include bread, rice, and wheat. These tend to be common necessities and essential items with few good substitutes at the same price levels. Thus, people may start to hoard toilet paper even as its price goes up.
What Is the Law of Diminishing Marginal Productivity?  

The law of diminishing marginal productivity is an economic principle usually considered by managers in productivity management. Generally, it states that advantages gained from slight improvement on the input side of the production equation will only advance marginally per unit and may level off or even decrease after a specific point. 





Key Takeaways

Diminishing marginal productivity typically occurs when advantageous changes are made to input variables affecting total productivity.The law of diminishing marginal productivity states that when an advantage is gained in a factor of production, the productivity gained from each subsequent unit produced will only increase marginally from one unit to the next.Production managers consider the law of diminishing marginal productivity when improving variable inputs for increased production and profitability.


   Understanding the Law of Diminishing Marginal Productivity  

The law of diminishing marginal productivity involves marginal increases in production return per unit produced. It can also be known as the law of diminishing marginal product or the law of diminishing marginal return. In general, it aligns with most economic theories using marginal analysis. Marginal increases are commonly found in economics, showing a diminishing rate of satisfaction or gain obtained from additional units of consumption or production.



The law of diminishing marginal productivity suggests that managers find a marginally diminishing rate of production return per unit produced after making advantageous adjustments to inputs driving production. When mathematically graphed this creates a concave chart showing total production return gained from aggregate unit production gradually increasing until leveling off and potentially starting to fall.



Different than some other economic laws, the law of diminishing marginal productivity involves marginal product calculations that can usually be relatively easy to quantify. Companies may choose to alter various inputs in the factors of production for various reasons, many of which are focused on costs. In some situations, it may be more cost-efficient to alter the inputs of one variable while keeping others constant. However, in practice, all changes to input variables require close analysis. The law of diminishing marginal productivity says that these changes to inputs will have a marginally positive effect on outputs. Thus, each additional unit produced will report a marginally smaller production return than the unit before it as production goes on.






The law of diminishing marginal productivity is also known as the law of diminishing marginal returns.



Marginal productivity or marginal product refers to the extra output, return, or profit yielded per unit by advantages from production inputs. Inputs can include things like labor and raw materials. The law of diminishing marginal returns states that when an advantage is gained in a factor of production, the marginal productivity will typically diminish as production increases. This means that the cost advantage usually diminishes for each additional unit of output produced.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 


   Real-World Examples  

In its most simplified form, diminishing marginal productivity is typically identified when a single input variable presents a decrease in input cost. A decrease in the labor costs involved with manufacturing a car, for example, would lead to marginal improvements in profitability per car. However, the law of diminishing marginal productivity suggests that for every unit of production, managers will experience a diminishing productivity improvement. This usually translates to a diminishing level of profitability per car.



Diminishing marginal productivity can also involve a benefit threshold being exceeded. For example, consider a farmer using fertilizer as an input in the process for growing corn. Each unit of added fertilizer will only increase production return marginally up to a threshold. At the threshold level, the added fertilizer does not improve production and may harm production.



In another scenario consider a business with a high level of customer traffic during certain hours. The business could increase the number of workers available to help customers but at a certain threshold, the addition of workers will not improve total sales and can even cause a decrease in sales.


   Considerations for Economies of Scale  

Economies of scale can be studied in conjunction with the law of diminishing marginal productivity. Economies of scale show that a company can usually increase their profit per unit of production when they produce goods in mass quantities. Mass production involves several important factors of production like labor, electricity, equipment usage, and more. When these factors are adjusted, economies of scale still allow a company to produce goods at a lower relative per unit cost. However, adjusting production inputs advantageously will usually result in diminishing marginal productivity because each advantageous adjustment can only offer so much of a benefit. Economic theory suggests that the benefit obtained is not constant per additional units produced but rather diminishes.



Diminishing marginal productivity can also be associated with diseconomies of scale. Diminishing marginal productivity can potentially lead to a loss of profit after breaching a threshold. If diseconomies of scale occur, companies don’t see a cost improvement per unit at all with production increases. Instead, there is no return gained for units produced and losses can mount as more units are produced.
What Is the Law of Diminishing Marginal Returns?  

The law of diminishing marginal returns is a theory in economics that predicts that after some optimal level of capacity is reached, adding an additional factor of production will actually result in smaller increases in output.



For example, a factory employs workers to manufacture its products, and, at some point, the company operates at an optimal level. With all other production factors constant, adding additional workers beyond this optimal level will result in less efficient operations. 



The law of diminishing returns is related to the concept of diminishing marginal utility. It can also be contrasted with economies of scale.





Key Takeaways

The law of diminishing marginal returns states that adding an additional factor of production results in smaller increases in output. After some optimal level of capacity utilization, the addition of any larger amounts of a factor of production will inevitably yield decreased per-unit incremental returns.For example, if a factory employs workers to manufacture its products, at some point, the company will operate at an optimal level; with all other production factors constant, adding additional workers beyond this optimal level will result in less efficient operations. 












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding the Law of Diminishing Marginal Returns  

The law of diminishing marginal returns is also referred to as the "law of diminishing returns," the "principle of diminishing marginal productivity," and the "law of variable proportions." This law affirms that the addition of a larger amount of one factor of production, ceteris paribus, inevitably yields decreased per-unit incremental returns. The law does not imply that the additional unit decreases total production, which is known as negative returns; however, this is commonly the result.






The law of diminishing marginal returns does not imply that the additional unit decreases total production, but this is usually the result. 



The law of diminishing returns is not only a fundamental principle of economics, but it also plays a starring role in production theory. Production theory is the study of the economic process of converting inputs into outputs.


   History of The Law of Diminishing Returns  

The idea of diminishing returns has ties to some of the world’s earliest economists, including Jacques Turgot, Johann Heinrich von Thünen, Thomas Robert Malthus, David Ricardo, and James Anderson. The first recorded mention of diminishing returns came from Turgot in the mid-1700s.



Classical economists, such as Ricardo and Malthus, attribute successive diminishment of output to a decrease in the quality of input. Ricardo contributed to the development of the law, referring to it as the "intensive margin of cultivation." Ricardo was also the first to demonstrate how additional labor and capital added to a fixed piece of land would successively generate smaller output increases.



Malthus introduced the idea during the construction of his population theory. This theory argues that population grows geometrically while food production increases arithmetically, resulting in a population outgrowing its food supply. Malthus’ ideas about limited food production stem from diminishing returns.



Neoclassical economists postulate that each “unit” of labor is exactly the same, and diminishing returns are caused by a disruption of the entire production process as extra units of labor are added to a set amount of capital.


   Diminishing Marginal Returns vs. Returns to Scale  

Diminishing marginal returns are an effect of increasing input in the short-run, while at least one production variable is kept constant, such as labor or capital. Returns to scale, on the other hand, are an impact of increasing input in all variables of production in the long run. This phenomenon is referred to as economies of scale.



For example, suppose that there is a manufacturer that is able to double its total input, but gets only a 60% increase in total output; this is an example of decreasing returns to scale. Now, if the same manufacturer ends up doubling its total output, then it has achieved constant returns to scale, where the increase in output is proportional to the increase in production input. However, economies of scale will occur when the percentage increase in output is higher than the percentage increase in input (so that by doubling inputs, output triples).
What Is the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility?  

The law of diminishing marginal utility states that all else equal, as consumption increases, the marginal utility derived from each additional unit declines. Marginal utility is the incremental increase in utility that results from the consumption of one additional unit. "Utility" is an economic term used to represent satisfaction or happiness.



In simple terms, the law of diminishing marginal utility means that the more of an item that you use or consume, the less satisfaction you get from each additional unit consumed or used.





Key Takeaways

The law of diminishing marginal utility says that the marginal utility from each additional unit declines as consumption increases.The marginal utility can decline into negative utility, as it may become entirely unfavorable to consume another unit of any product.The marginal utility may decrease into negative utility, as it may become entirely unfavorable to consume another unit of any product.


   Understanding the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility  

To understand how the law of diminishing marginal utility affects both consumers and businesses, it can be helpful to break down its components.


  Understanding Utility  

Utility is the degree of satisfaction or pleasure a consumer gets from an economic act. For example, a consumer can purchase a sandwich so they are no longer hungry, thus the sandwich provides some utility.


  Understanding Marginal Utility  

Marginal utility is the enjoyment a consumer gets from each additional unit of consumption. It calculates the utility beyond the first product consumed. If you buy a bottle of water and then a second one, the utility gained from the second bottle of water is the marginal utility.


  Understanding Diminishing Marginal Utility  

The law of diminishing marginal utility directly relates to the concept of diminishing prices. As the utility of a product decreases as its consumption increases, consumers are willing to pay smaller dollar amounts for more of the product. For example, assume an individual pays $100 for a vacuum cleaner. Because he has little value for a second vacuum cleaner, the same individual is willing to pay only $20 for a second vacuum cleaner.






The law of diminishing marginal utility makes several assumptions:The goods being consumed are identical.The units are consumed quickly with few breaks in between.Units are not too big or too small.The consumer's taste is constant.There is no change in the price of the goods or of their substitutes.The unit can be measured.The consumer is making rational decisions about consumption.



The marginal utility may decrease into negative utility. At that point, it's entirely unfavorable to consume another unit of any product. Therefore, the first unit of consumption for any product is typically highest. After that, every unit of consumption to follow holds less and less utility. Consumers handle the law of diminishing marginal utility by consuming numerous different goods, keeping the utility high for each one.



The law of diminishing marginal utility directly impacts a company’s pricing because the price charged for an item must correspond to the consumer’s marginal utility and willingness to consume or utilize the good.


   Examples of the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility  

Imagine you can purchase a slice of pizza for $2. You're very hungry, so you decide to buy five slices of pizza. When you eat the first slice of pizza, you gain a certain amount of positive utility from eating. Because you were hungry and this is the first food you are eating, the first slice of pizza has a high benefit.



After you eat the second slice of pizza, your appetite is becoming satisfied. You're not as hungry as before, so the second slice of pizza had a smaller benefit and enjoyment than the first. The third slice holds even less utility since you're only a little hungry at this point.



The fourth slice of pizza has experienced a diminished marginal utility as well. It might be difficult to eat because you're already full from the first three slices. Finally, you can't even eat the fifth slice of pizza. You're so full from the first four slices that consuming the last slice of pizza results in negative utility.


  Examples of the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility in Business  

Businesses can use this principle to structure their workforce. For example, a company may benefit from having three accountants on its staff. If there is no need for another accountant, though, hiring another accountant results in a diminished utility, as there is a minimum benefit gained from the new hire. However, if you have two accountants but no one to process paperwork, hiring a new administrative assistant has a higher level of utility than hiring a third accountant.



The law of diminishing marginal utility can also affect what goods and services businesses offer to customers, as it encourages a certain level of diversification. In the above example with the pizza, if the consumer knows they won't want the fourth or fifth slice of pizza, they might not buy them in the first place. But they may see a high level of utility in a different food, such as a salad. By diversifying its menu, the shop selling pizza can avoid diminished marginal utility and encourage consumers to purchase more.


   How the Law Affects Pricing  

The law of diminishing marginal utility affects how businesses price their goods and services. Because the first quantity of something has the most utility, consumers are usually willing to pay more for it.



For example, a store might have a deal on backpacks for sale: one backpack for $30, two for $55, or three pairs for $75. A person buying backpacks can get the best cost per backpack if they buy three.



Not all buyers will want three backpacks, even though they are the best deal. However, anyone who is shopping for backpacks needs at least one, so the first backpack has the highest price. After that, because the marginal utility of each additional backpack decreases, the business must decrease the cost per unit in order to entice shoppers to purchase more units.


   Limitations of the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility  

When it comes to making business decisions, there are some limitations to the law of diminishing marginal utility. The law will not operate properly, or may not even apply, if:



The units being consumed are very small.The units being consumed are of different sizes.There are long breaks in between consuming the units.The consumer is thinking or behaving irrationally, or the consumer is suffering from a mental illness or addiction.The units being consumed are part of a collection or are rare objects.



The law of diminishing marginal utility also will not apply if the commodity being considered is money. The utility of money does not decrease as a person acquires more of it.




What Is a Simple Way to State the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility?
The law of diminishing marginal utility means that as you use or consume more of something, you will get less satisfaction from each additional unit of that thing.




What Is the Formula for the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility?
Marginal utility (MU) is equal to the change in the total utility (TU) divided by the change in quantity consumed (Q). This is written as MU = ΔTU / ΔQ.




What Is the Importance of the Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility?
The law of diminishing marginal utility is important in economics and business. Because it predicts consumer behavior, it can be used by businesses to find the balance in supply and production. It can inform a business's marketing and sales strategies as well.


   The Bottom Line  

The law of diminishing marginal utility predicts how consumers will react to a certain level of supply. As they consume more units of a single type of good, the utility of each unit will decrease until the consumer doesn't want anymore. Businesses can use the law of diminishing marginal utility to understand consumer behavior, price their goods and services, and diversify their offerings.
What Is the Law of Large Numbers?  

The law of large numbers, in probability and statistics, states that as a sample size grows, its mean gets closer to the average of the whole population. This is due to the sample being more representative of the population as the sample become larger.



In a financial context, the law of large numbers indicates that a large entity which is growing rapidly cannot maintain that growth pace forever. The biggest of the blue chips, with market values in the hundreds of billions, are frequently cited as examples of this phenomenon.





Key Takeaways

The law of large numbers states that an observed sample average from a large sample will be close to the true population average and that it will get closer the larger the sample.The law of large numbers does not guarantee that a given sample, especially a small sample, will reflect the true population characteristics or that a sample that does not reflect the true population will be balanced by a subsequent sample.The law of large numbers indicates a bigger sample will represent a population mean, while the central tendency theorem states a bigger sample will represent a population's distribution.In business, the term "law of large numbers" is sometimes used in a different sense to express the relationship between scale and growth rates. As a company becomes bigger, it will experience difficulties maintaining percentage targets because the underlying dollars may become too large and unfeasible.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the Law of Large Numbers  

The law of large numbers can refer to two different topics. First, in statistical analysis, the law of large numbers can be applied to a variety of subjects. It may not be feasible to poll every individual within a given population to collect the required amount of data, but every additional data point gathered has the potential to increase the likelihood that the outcome is a true measure of the mean.



The law of large numbers does not mean that a given sample or group of successive samples will always reflect the true population characteristics, especially for small samples. This also means that if a given sample or series of samples deviates from the true population average, the law of large numbers does not guarantee that successive samples will move the observed average toward the population mean (as suggested by the Gambler's Fallacy).



Second, the term "law of large numbers" is sometimes used in business in relation to growth rates, stated as a percentage. It suggests that, as a business expands, the percentage rate of growth becomes increasingly difficult to maintain. This is because the underlying dollar amount is actually increasing even if the growth rate as a percentage is to remain constant.






The Law of Large Numbers is not to be mistaken with the Law of Averages, which states that the distribution of outcomes in a sample (large or small) reflects the distribution of outcomes of the population.


   Law of Large Numbers and Statistical Analysis  

If a person wanted to determine the average value of a data set of 100 possible values, he is more likely to reach an accurate average by choosing 20 data points instead of relying on just two. This is because there is greater probability of the two data points being outliers or non-representative of the average, while there is lower probability in all 20 data points being non-representative.



For example, if the data set included all integers from one to 100, and sample-taker only drew two values, such as 95 and 40, he may determine the average to be approximately 67.5. If he continued to take random samplings up to 20 variables, the average should shift towards the true average as he considers more data points.


   Law of Large Numbers and Central Limit Theorem  

In statistical analysis, the law of large numbers is related to the central limit theorem. The central limit theorem states that as the sample size increases, the sample mean will be evenly distributed. This is often depicted as a bell-shaped curve where the peak of the curve depicts the mean and even distributions of sample data fall to the left and right of the curve.



In a related manner, the law of large numbers also states that data is refined as the sample grows. However, the law of large numbers more closely relates to the center of the bell curve. The law of large numbers indicates that as a sample size increases, the mean of the sample will more closely resemble the mean of the population. Therefore, the law of large numbers relates to the peak (the mean) of a curve, while the central limit theorem relates to the distribution of a curve.


   Law of Large Numbers and Business Growth  

In business and finance, this term law of large numbers is sometimes used colloquially to refer to the observation that exponential growth rates often do not scale. This is not actually related to the law of large numbers, but may be a result of the law of diminishing marginal returns or diseconomies of scale.



The same principles can be applied to other metrics, such as market capitalization or net profit. As a result, investing decisions can be guided based on the associated difficulties that companies with very high market capitalization can experience as they relate to stock appreciation. This concept is somewhat central to growth versus value stocks, as a company may find it to maintain its business strategy of rapid growth once it achieves market success.


   Law of Large Numbers in Business Example  

In fiscal year 2020, Tesla reported automotive sales (not gross sales) of $24.604 billion. The next year, the company reported $44.125 billion, an increase of roughly 79%. As electric vehicles are an emerging market and Tesla is beginning to finally experience economies of scale, the company is started to experience success very quickly.



The law of large numbers indicates that as Tesla continues to grow, it will become harder for the company to maintain this level of productivity. For example, assuming a steady growth rate of the next several years, it becomes quickly apparent that Tesla simply cannot maintain its current growth trajectory due to the underlying dollar values becoming unreasonable.










Theoretical Tesla Automobile Revenue




Year
Revenue
Notes


2021
$44.1 billion
Actuals


2022
$79.0 billion



2023
$141.4 billion



2024
$253.1 billion
Would exceed Apple's six-month total net sales ending March 2022.


2025 
$453.0 billion



2026 
$810.9 billion
Would be almost six times as large as Ford's full year 2021 revenue ($136.3 billion).


2027 
$1.451 trillion
Would almost equal total 2021 car sales for the top 20 automakers combined was $1.7 trillion.



Assuming Consistent Growth Rate in Revenue From 2020 to 2027 using 2020-21 Rate


   Law of Large Numbers and Insurance  

The law of large numbers is also prominent in the insurance industry to calculate and refine projected risk. Imagine a situation where an insurance company is assessing how much to charge different customers for car insurance. Should the company have a small data set, it will not be able to adequately determine appropriate risk profiles.



As the insurance agency collects more data, it experiences the law of large numbers, they may soon find that young, male drivers are most likely to cause an accident. This larger sample becomes more representative of driving incidents, and the insurance company can arrive at more accurate conclusions about the appropriate insurance premiums to charge.



In addition, the law of large numbers allows insurance companies to deeply refine the criteria in which to assess premiums by analyzing what traits cause higher risk. For example,




Why Is the Law of Large Numbers Important?
In statistical analysis, the law of large numbers is important because it gives validity to your sample size. When working with a small amount of data, the assumptions you make may not appropriately translate to the actual population. Therefore, it is important to make sure enough data points are being captured to adequately represent the entire data set.In business, the law of large numbers is important when setting targets or goals. A company may double its revenue in a single year. Should the company obtain only 50% growth in revenue the next year, it will have earned the same amount of money each of the last two years. Therefore, it is important to be mindful that percentages can be misleading as large dollar values escalate.




How Can Companies Overcome the Challenge of the Law of Large Numbers?
Companies often strive to overcome the challenge of the law of large numbers by acquiring smaller growth companies that can infuse scalable growth. They also attempt to become more efficient and utilize their size for manufacturing, ordering, or distribution benefits. Last, companies can be more attentive to dollar goals as opposed to percent goals.




What Is the Law of Small Numbers?
The law of small numbers is the theory that people underestimate the variability in small sample sizes. This means that when people study a sample size that is too small, they usually overestimate the population's value based on the incorrect sample size.




What Is the Law of Large Numbers in Psychology?
Similar to other examples above, the law of large numbers in psychology translates to how a larger number of trials often leads to a more accurate expected value. As more trials are performed, the closer the projection is to being a correct medical assessment.


   The Bottom Line  

When analyzing a data set, ensure you understand the law of large numbers to determine whether or not your sample size is representative of your population. On the other hand, when analyzing a company, be mindful of its size. As a company becomes larger, the law of large numbers states it will become more difficult for a company to maintain a percentage change (growth) due to the underlying large change in dollar amounts.
What Is the Law of One Price?  

The law of one price is an economic concept that states that the price of an identical asset or commodity will have the same price globally, regardless of location, when certain factors are considered.



The law of one price takes into account a frictionless market, where there are no transaction costs, transportation costs, or legal restrictions, the currency exchange rates are the same, and that there is no price manipulation by buyers or sellers. The law of one price exists because differences between asset prices in different locations would eventually be eliminated due to the arbitrage opportunity.



The arbitrage opportunity would be achieved whereby a trader would purchase the asset in the market it is available at a lower price and then sell it in the market where it is available at a higher price. Over time, market equilibrium forces would align the prices of the asset.





Key Takeaways

The law of one price states that in the absence of friction between global markets, the price for any asset will be the same. The law of one price is achieved by eliminating price differences through arbitrage opportunities between markets.Market equilibrium forces would eventually converge the price of the asset.


   Understanding the Law of One Price  

The law of one price is the foundation of purchasing power parity. Purchasing power parity states that the value of two currencies is equal when a basket of identical goods is priced the same in both countries. It ensures that buyers have the same purchasing power across global markets.



In reality, purchasing power parity is difficult to achieve, due to various costs in trading and the inability to access markets for some individuals.



The formula for purchasing power parity is useful in that it can be applied to compare prices across markets that trade in different currencies. As exchange rates can shift frequently, the formula can be recalculated on a regular basis to identify mispricings across various international markets.


   Example of the Law of One Price  

If the price of any economic good or security is inconsistent in two different free markets after considering the effects of currency exchange rates, then to earn a profit, an arbitrageur will purchase the asset in the cheaper market and sell it in the market where prices are higher. When the law of one price holds, arbitrage profits such as these will persist until the price converges across markets.



For example, if a particular security is available for $10 in Market A but is selling for the equivalent of $20 in Market B, investors could purchase the security in Market A and immediately sell it for $20 in Market B, netting a profit of $10 without any true risk or shifting of the markets.



As securities from Market A are sold on Market B, prices on both markets should change in accordance with the changes in supply and demand, all else equal. Increased demand for these securities in Market A, where it is relatively cheaper, should lead to an increase in its price there.



Conversely, increased supply in Market B, where the security is being sold for a profit by the arbitrageur, should lead to a decrease in its price there. Over time, this would lead to a balancing of the price of the security in the two markets, returning it to the state suggested by the law of one price.


   Violations of the Law of One Price  

In the real world, the assumptions built into the law of one price frequently do not hold, and persistent differentials in prices for many kinds of goods and assets can be readily observed. 


  Transportation Costs  

When dealing in commodities, or any physical good, the cost to transport them must be included, resulting in different prices when commodities from two different locations are examined.



If the difference in transportation costs does not account for the difference in commodity prices between regions, it can be a sign of a shortage or excess within a particular region. This applies to any good that must be physically transported from one geographic location to another rather than just transferred in title from one owner to another. It also applies to wages for any employment where the worker must be physically present at the worksite to perform the job. 


  Transaction Costs  

Because transaction costs exist and can vary across different markets and geographic regions, prices for the same good can also vary between markets. Where transaction costs, such as the costs to find an appropriate trading counterparty or costs to negotiate and enforce a contract, are higher, the price for a good will tend to be higher there than in other markets with lower transaction costs.


  Legal Restrictions  

Legal barriers to trade, such as tariffs, capital controls, or in the case of wages, immigration restrictions, can lead to persistent price differentials rather than one price. These will have a similar effect to transportation and transaction costs, and might even be thought of as a type of transaction cost. For example, if a country imposes a tariff on the importation of rubber, then domestic rubber prices will tend to be higher than the world price. 


  Market Structure  

Because the number of buyers and sellers (and the ability of buyers and sellers to enter the market) can vary between markets, market concentration and ability of buyers and sellers to set prices can vary as well.



A seller who enjoys a high degree of market power due to natural economies of scale in a given market might act like a monopoly price setter and charge a higher price. This can lead to different prices for the same good in different markets even for otherwise easily transportable goods.
What Is the Law of Supply?  

The law of supply is a microeconomic law. It states that, all other factors being equal, as the price of a good or service increases, the quantity of that good or service that suppliers offer will increase, and vice versa.



In plain terms, this law means that as the price of an item goes up, suppliers will attempt to maximize their profits by increasing the number of that item that they sell.





Key Takeaways

The law of supply says that a higher price will lead producers to supply a higher quantity to the market.Because businesses seek to increase revenue, when they expect to receive a higher price for something, they will produce more of it.Meanwhile, if prices fall, suppliers are disincentivized from producing as much.Supply in a market can be depicted as an upward-sloping supply curve that shows how the quantity supplied will respond to various prices over a period of time.Together with demand, the law of supply forms half of the law of supply and demand.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding the Law of Supply  

The chart below depicts the law of supply using a supply curve, which is upward sloping. A, B, and C are points on the supply curve. Each point on the curve reflects a direct correlation between quantity supplied (Q) and price (P). So, at point A, the quantity supplied will be Q1 and the price will be P1, and so on.












Investopedia / Julie Bang



The supply curve is upward sloping because, over time, suppliers can choose how much of their goods to produce and later bring to market. At any given point in time, however, the supply that sellers bring to market is fixed, and sellers simply face a decision to either sell or withhold their stock from a sale; consumer demand sets the price, and sellers can only charge what the market will bear.



If consumer demand rises over time, the price will rise, and suppliers can choose to devote new resources to production (or new suppliers can enter the market), which increases the quantity supplied. Demand ultimately sets the price in a competitive market; supplier response to the price they can expect to receive sets the quantity supplied.  



The law of supply is one of the most fundamental concepts in economics. It works with the law of demand to explain how market economies allocate resources and determine the prices of goods and services.






British economist Alfred Marshall (1842-1924), a specialist in microeconomics, contributed significantly to supply theory, especially in his pioneering use of the supply curve. He emphasized that the price and output of a good are determined by both supply and demand: the two curves are like scissor blades that intersect at equilibrium.


   Examples of the Law of Supply  

The law of supply summarizes the effect price changes have on producer behavior. For example, a business will make more video game systems if the price of those systems increases. The opposite is true if the price of video game systems decreases. The company might supply 1 million systems if the price is $200 each, but if the price increases to $300, they might supply 1.5 million systems.



To further illustrate this concept, consider how gas prices work. When the price of gasoline rises, it encourages profit-seeking firms to take actions to expand supply, such as:



Increase exploration for oil reserves.Drill for more oil.Invest in more pipelines and tankers to bring the oil to plants where it can be refined into gasoline.Build new oil refineries.Purchase additional pipelines and trucks to ship the gasoline to gas stations.Open more gas stations.Keep existing gas stations open longer hours.



The law of supply is so intuitive that you may not even be aware of all the examples around you. For example, when college students learn that computer engineering jobs pay more than English professor jobs, the supply of students with majors in computer engineering increases. If consumers start paying more for cupcakes than for donuts, bakeries will increase their output of cupcakes and reduce their output of donuts to increase their profits.



The law of supply can even impact your own employment. When your employer pays time and a half for overtime, the number of hours you are willing to supply for work might increase.




What Are the Types of Law of Supply?
There are five types of supply—market supply, short-term supply, long-term supply, joint supply, and composite supply. Meanwhile, there are two types of supply curves—individual supply curves and market supply curves. Individual supply curves graph the individual supply schedule, while market supply curves represent the market supply schedule.




What Factors Affect Supply?
Supply is influenced by prices and consumer demand. The number of suppliers available, the level of competition, the state of technology, and the presence of government support or restriction will play important roles. For certain products like agricultural commodities, supply is also impacted by factors such as weather and crop yields.




What Is the Law of Demand?
The law of demand is a fundamental principle of economics that states that at a higher price consumers will demand a lower quantity of a good, and vice-versa.




What Is Supply and Demand?
The law of supply and demand outlines the interaction between a buyer and a seller of a resource. Supply and demand says that sellers will supply less of a product or resource as price decreases, while buyers will buy more, and vice versa, until an equilibrium price and quantity is reached. It incorporates both the law of supply and the law of demand.


   The Bottom Line  

The law of supply states that a higher price for a good or service will lead producers to supply more of that good or service to the market. This is because businesses want to increase their profits. When they can get a higher price for something, they will produce more of it than they will of other, lower-priced goods and services.



On the other hand, if prices fall, suppliers won't produce as much. The law of supply is one part of the law of supply and demand.
What Is the Law of Supply and Demand?  

The law of supply and demand combines two fundamental economic principles describing how changes in the price of a resource, commodity, or product affect its supply and demand.



As the price increases, supply rises while demand declines. Conversely, as the price drops supply constricts while demand grows.



Levels of supply and demand for varying prices can be plotted on a graph as curves. The intersection of these curves marks the equilibrium, or market-clearing price at which demand equals supply, and represents the process of price discovery in the marketplace.





Key Takeaways

The law of demand holds that the demand level for a product or a resource will decline as its price rises, and rise as the price drops.Conversely, the law of supply says higher prices boost supply of an economic good while lower ones tend to diminish it.A market-clearing price balances supply and demand, and can be graphically represented as the intersection of the supply and demand curves.The degree to which changes in price translate into changes in demand and supply is known as the product's price elasticity. Demand for basic necessities is relatively inelastic, meaning it is less responsive to changes in their price.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding the Law of Supply and Demand  

It may seem obvious that in any sale transaction the price satisfies both the buyer and the seller, matching supply with demand. The interactions between supply, demand, and price in a (more or less) free marketplace have been observed for thousands of years.



Many medieval thinkers, like modern day critics of market pricing for select commodities, distinguished between a "just" price based on costs and equitable returns and one at which the sale was in fact transacted. Our understanding of price as a signaling mechanism matching supply and demand is rooted in the work of Enlightenment economists who studied and summarized the relationship.



Importantly, supply and demand do not necessarily respond to price movements proportionally. The degree to which price changes affect the product's demand or supply is known as its price elasticity. Products with a high price elasticity of demand will see wider fluctuations in demand based on the price. In contrast, basic necessities will be relatively inelastic in price because people can't easily do without them, meaning demand will change less relative to changes in the price.



Price discovery based on supply and demand curves assumes a marketplace in which buyers and sellers are free to transact or not, depending on the price. Factors such as taxes and government regulation, the market power of suppliers, the availability of substitute goods, and economic cycles can all shift the supply or demand curves or alter their shapes. But so long as buyers and sellers retain agency, the commodities affected by these external factors remain subject to the fundamental forces of supply and demand. Now let's consider in turn how demand and supply respond to price changes.


   The Law of Demand  

The law of demand holds that demand for a product changes inversely to its price, all else being equal. In other words, the higher the price, the lower the level of demand.



Because buyers have finite resources, their spending on a given product or commodity is limited as well, so higher prices reduce the quantity demanded. Conversely, demand rises as the product becomes more affordable.



As a result, demand curves slope downward from left to right, as in the chart below. Changes in demand levels as a function of a product's price relative to buyers' income or resources are known as the income effect.



Naturally, there are exceptions. One is Giffen goods, typically low-priced staples also known as inferior goods. Inferior goods are those that see a drop in demand when incomes rise because consumers trade up to higher-quality products. But when the price of an inferior good rises and demand goes up because consumers use more of it in place of costlier alternatives, the substitution effect turns the product into a Giffen good.



At the opposite end of the income and wealth spectrum, Veblen goods are luxury goods that gain in value and consequently generate higher demand levels as they rise in price because the price of these luxury goods signals (and may even increase) the owner's status. Veblen goods are named for economist and sociologist Thorstein Veblen, who developed the concept and coined the term "conspicuous consumption" to describe it.


   The Law of Supply  

The law of supply relates price changes for a product with the quantity supplied. In contrast with the law of demand the law of supply relationship is direct, not inverse. The higher the price, the higher the quantity supplied. Lower prices mean reduced supply, all else held equal.



Higher prices give suppliers an incentive to supply more of the product or commodity, assuming their costs aren't increasing as much. Lower prices result in a cost squeeze that curbs supply. As a result, supply slopes are upwardly sloping from left to right.



As with demand, supply constraints may limit the price elasticity of supply for a product, while supply shocks may cause a disproportionate price change for an essential commodity.






   Equilibrium Price  

Also called a market-clearing price, the equilibrium price is the price at which demand matches supply, producing a market equilibrium acceptable to buyers and sellers.



At the point where an upward-sloping supply curve and a downward-sloping demand curve intersect, supply and demand in terms of the quantity of the goods are balanced, leaving no surplus supply or unmet demand. The level of the market-clearing price depends on the shape and position of the respective supply and demand curves, which are influenced by numerous factors. 


   Factors Affecting Supply  

In industries where suppliers are not willing to lose money, supply will tend to decline toward zero at product prices below production costs.



Price elasticity will also depend on the number of sellers, their aggregate productive capacity, how easily it can be lowered or increased, and the industry's competitive dynamics. Taxes and regulations may matter as well.


   Factors Affecting Demand  

Consumer income, preferences, and willingness to substitute one product for another are among the most important determinants of demand.



Consumer preferences will depend, in part, on a product's market penetration, since the marginal utility of goods diminishes as the quantity owned increases. The first car is more life-altering than the fifth addition to the fleet; the living-room TV more useful than the fourth one for the garage.




What Is a Simple Explanation of the Law of Supply and Demand?
If you've ever wondered how the supply of a product matches demand, or how market prices are set, the law of supply and demand holds the answers. Higher prices cause supply to increase while demand drops. Lower prices boost demand while limiting supply. The market-clearing price is one at which supply and demand are balanced.




Why Is the Law of Supply and Demand Important?
The Law of Supply and Demand is essential because it helps investors, entrepreneurs, and economists understand and predict market conditions. For example, a company considering a price hike on a product will typically expect demand for it to decline as a result, and will attempt to estimate the price elasticity and substitution effect to determine whether to proceed regardless.




What Is an Example of the Law of Supply and Demand?
When gasoline consumption plunged with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, prices quickly followed suit because the industry ran out of storage space. The price decline, in turn, served as a powerful signal to suppliers to curb gasoline production. Conversely, crude oil prices in 2022 provided producers with additional incentive to boost output.
What Is Lawful Money?  

Lawful money is any form of currency issued by the United States Treasury and not the Federal Reserve System. It includes gold and silver coins, Treasury notes, and Treasury bonds. Lawful money stands in contrast to fiat money, in which the government assigns value although it has no intrinsic value of its own and is not backed by reserves. Fiat money includes legal tender such as paper money, checks, drafts, and banknotes.



Lawful money is also known as "specie," which means "in actual form."





Key Takeaways

Lawful money is currency issued by the United States Treasury, such as gold and silver coins, Treasury notes, and Treasury bonds.Fiat money, which consists of paper money and checks, is not lawful money but is considered legal tender.The difference arises from the U.S. Constitution, which specifies gold and silver as the legal form of tender for debts, hence the varied interpretation since new forms of payments came into circulation.The Federal Reserve Act of 1913 gave the Federal Reserve the right to issue Federal Reserve Notes, which are backed by the U.S. government and are redeemed in lawful money, but did not specify what lawful money meant.In 1933 Congress amended the Federal Reserve Act to include all U.S. coins and currency as legal tender, to avoid any confusion about what type of money is legally permissible.


   Understanding Lawful Money  

Oddly enough, the dollar bills that we carry around in our wallets are not considered lawful money. The notation on the bottom of a U.S. dollar bill reads "Legal Tender for All Debts, Public and Private," and is issued by the U.S. Federal Reserve, not the U.S. Treasury.



Legal tender can be exchanged for an equivalent amount of lawful money, but macro-effects such as inflation can change the value of fiat money. Lawful money is said to be the most direct form of ownership, but for purposes of practicality, it has little use in direct transactions between parties.


   History of Lawful Money  

The Federal Reserve Act of 1913, which established the Federal Reserve System and authorizes it to issue Federal Reserve notes, states that “[Federal Reserve notes] shall be obligations of the United States and shall be receivable by all national and member banks and Federal reserve banks and for all taxes, customs, and other public dues. They shall be redeemed in lawful money on demand at the Treasury Department of the United States, in the city of Washington, District of Columbia, or at any Federal Reserve bank."﻿﻿



However, the Act did not explicitly define what lawful money meant. Since some currencies that could be used by national banking associations as "lawful money reserves" were not considered legal tender, Congress amended the Federal Reserve Act in 1933 to include all U.S. coins and currency as legal tender for all purposes.﻿﻿



The 1933 amendment extended the power of legal tender to all types of money, creating dissension on whether paper money and reserves of the Federal Reserve bank are lawful money.﻿﻿ While some argue that Federal Reserve notes are lawful money, others tend to disagree.


   Confusion Over Lawful Money  

Since the US Constitution states “no state shall make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts,” some believe that this is the definition of lawful money and, thus, any payment medium other than gold or silver is not considered lawful money. In effect, the primary meaning of lawful money is legal tender, but a broader interpretation is frequently applied in certain contexts.



Because no legal definition of lawful money was ever provided, the term has led to a lot of confusion, primarily in legal aspects. For all intents and purposes, lawful money should mean legal tender but is not always the case. This has caused a lot of confusion for students of law and banking.



Professionals believe that Congress should pass a simple statute stating what lawful money is, ensuring it includes all forms of U.S. currency, particularly since the use of gold and silver is not a regular occurrence anymore.



Lawful money is separate from the classification of money, which is broken down as M0, M1, M2, and M3. The classifications incorporate all of the money used in the U.S. economy.
What Is Layaway?  

Layaway is a way of buying something in which a consumer makes a down payment on an item, which the store then holds for them while they pay the remainder of the price in installments, after which they take possession of it. A layaway plan ensures that the consumer will get their chosen merchandise when they've fully paid for it.





Key Takeaways

The term “layaway” refers to the retail purchasing method by which consumers place a deposit on items of merchandise—to “lay them away” for later pickup at a time when they have the funds to pay the balance in full.Layaway programs are generally geared toward shoppers with limited income who may struggle to pay for purchases in one lump sum.Created during the Great Depression of the 1930s, layaway programs declined during the 1980s as the ubiquity of credit cards decreased their utility.


   Understanding Layaway  

Layaway works for consumers who have limited disposable incomes and are unable to make larger lump-sum purchases. There is sometimes a fee for this because the seller must keep the item in storage until the payments are completed. With little risk involved for the seller, layaways can be readily offered to those with bad credit. If the transaction is not completed, the item is simply returned to the shelf. The customer’s money may either be returned in full, forfeited entirely, or returned minus a fee.



Layaway programs also benefit retailers by allowing them to offer products to lower-income customers as a type of savings plan. Because the customer has already made a commitment to purchase the product on layaway, they cannot succumb to the temptation to spend that money elsewhere.


   Online Layaway  

Online layaway programs let consumers purchase items via scheduled deductions that are taken from a checking account. Online layaway simplifies layaway for both merchants and consumers by removing associated storage and bookkeeping costs. The layaway items remain housed at the distribution center during the layaway period, rather than taking up valuable retail warehouse space.






Retailers often restrict layaway purchases to more expensive items, such as jewelry and electronic goods; smaller items such as toys are typically unavailable for purchase through layaway programs.


   Layaways vs. Credit Cards  

There are both similarities and differences between layaways and credit cards. Layaways and credit cards are each used to purchase an item that an individual cannot currently afford. Both have late payment fees as well as penalties for default. Both also allow for payment in installments over a certain time period.



One of the differences between the two is that with a credit card, an individual can take home the item they purchased right away; with layaway, an individual can only take home an item after they have fully paid for it. Layaway requires a deposit, whereas a credit card does not. Depending on the layaway, you do not pay interest on the unpaid balance. With a credit card, you do, which can quickly increase the cost of a purchase and send individuals into credit card debt.



If you default on a layaway plan it will not impact your credit score, whereas on a credit card it will. Also, you do not need good credit to use a layaway program, but you do need good credit to receive a credit card or at least good terms on a credit card.



Credit cards are usually a better option if you can pay off your balance in full the next month and not accrue interest. Credit cards allow you to build a positive credit history, take advantage of rewards plans by which you can earn points or cash back, and receive your item right away. However, if you can’t pay your balance in full the next month, layaway can be a better option to avoid accruing the high-interest debt associated with credit cards.


   The Origin of Layaway Plans  

The advent of layaway plans came during the Great Depression of the 1930s, when most individuals and families were suffering greatly financially. It stayed popular until the 1980s, when the increasing availability of credit cards began to make it superfluous. For example, in September of 2006 Walmart ended layaway service after 44 years, according to reportage by NPR. The company blamed declining demand and escalating costs.



However, in September of 2011 Wal-Mart resumed the service, due to new financial difficulties brought on by the Great Recession, and subsequently increased consumer credit constraints. However, it was only brought back for the holiday season. It remained in place until 2021, when Walmart once again discontinued its layaway program, replacing it with a buy now, pay later (BNPL) program called Affirm.



In essence, the Affirm program lends customers the money to buy their item, which they don’t have to wait to take home. They repay the loan with regular payments over a set amount of time, anywhere from three to 24 months, depending on the size of the loan. Items available for such financing include electronics, video games, tools, toys, musical instruments, jewelry, home improvement, and apparel.



Though there are some 0% promotional interest rates available, the offer generally comes with interest rates ranging between 10% and 30%. Creating an Affirm account will not affect your credit score, but purchasing an item with it could. These features differentiate the program from other BNPL offers, making it more like using a credit card. However, unlike credit cards, Affirm does not charge fees of any sort.


   Does Anyone Still Use Layaway?  

As of 2021, there are still some companies that offer layaway programs, though the details vary among them. Here are eight.


  Army & Air Force Exchange  

This military retailer offers three layaway options.



30-day layaway for all clothing, handbags, and shoes60-day layaway for all other merchandise (except jewelry)120-day layaway for fine jewelry



Your purchase must be for at least $25, and there is a 15% down payment and nonrefundable $3 processing fee. If you cancel the purchase, a $5 fee is charged. Excluded merchandise consists of clearance items; computers, peripherals, and major appliances; furniture, mattresses, exercise equipment, and seasonal and outdoor living items; and electronics costing $299 and up. The service is only available in the store.


  Baby Depot and Burlington Coat Factory  

Owned by the same company, these two stores offer the same layaway plan. It is not available at every store, though, so you should check out the online list on the Burlington website.



You can put your merchandise on layaway for 30 days. There is a down payment of $10 or 20%, whichever is greater, and a nonrefundable $5 service fee. Payments can only be made in the store by cash, check, or credit card, and you can pay by installment or in full. If you cancel, there is a $10 fee. Ineligible merchandise includes food items, wall art, rugs, lamps, and furniture.


  Big Lots  

Big Lots has two layaway programs. One is called Price Hold. It means that the store will maintain the current price of an item when it is out of stock or when you can’t pay for it in full. The price will be maintained until either the item is restocked or you have fully paid for it. There is no set time limit, but the company will require you to notify it when you are within two weeks of paying it off to be sure that it is available for pickup. The program is only available in stores that sell furniture, a list of which can be found by using the Store Locator on the Big Lots website.



The Progressive Leasing program is a 12-months-to-ownership offer (in California it’s three months). You may take your merchandise home, but you are only leasing it until you pay for it in full. To qualify, you only need to be 18 years old, have a valid Social Security number or individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), have an open and active checking account, and own a credit or debit card. There are no application or processing fees. Your payments will be drawn electronically from your credit or debit card.



You can purchase your product early, but it will cost more than the retail price to do so (except in California). Eligible items include sofas, love seats, sectionals, dining sets, and mattresses, as well as seasonal items such as outdoor patio furniture, gazebos, umbrellas, chairs, and more. 


  Hallmark Gold Crown  

Some Hallmark Gold Crown stores offer a layaway policy. It is only in effect from July through December, and the layaway term is up to 90 days. There is a 20% down payment. The policies can be different at different stores, so make sure to check with a sales associate for specifics on fees, cancellation, possible interest charges, etc.


  Kmart and Sears  

Both online and in-store layaway plans are offered by Kmart and Sears, which are owned by the same parent company, Transformco.



The duration of layaway at the remaining Kmart and Sears stores is either eight weeks or 12 weeks, with the latter only available in the store for items costing $300 or more. There is a down payment of $10, and payments must be made every two weeks either online or in the store. There is a nonrefundable $5 service fee for eight-week items and a $10 service fee for 12-week items.



If you miss a payment, you have seven days to catch up, after which your layaway plan is canceled, and you pay a $10 or $20 cancellation fee, depending upon the length of your layaway. If you cancel the contract, you will get a full refund of any payments made to date except for service and cancellation fees. Only items that are marked “Layaway Eligible” can be purchased with the plan, and you can find that label online on the product page.



Unfortunately, according to reporting by the health website Best Life, Kmart is closing most of its stores, with only six scheduled to be still operating at the end of 2021. The Chicago Tribune reported that only 35 Sears stores remained in business as of Sept. 16, 2021. Their previous parent company, Sears Holdings, filed for bankruptcy in 2018 and was acquired by Transformco, which has been closing stores and selling off assets.


  Marshalls  

Marshalls has a program called eLayaway that offers loans through a company called Vivaloan. Same-day approval is possible after filling out a seven-minute application. A 10% down payment is required, and there is a nonrefundable $5 service fee. Installment payments begin within 30 days.



Even people with poor credit can get one; you only need to be 18 years old with a regular income. On-time loan payments are reported to credit agencies, which can improve your credit score over time.




What Is a Layaway Plan?
Layaway is a purchasing method by which a consumer places a deposit on an item to “lay it away” for later pickup when they come back and pay the balance. It often charges no interest and is available to almost anyone, even those with bad credit. Paying on layaway generally does not affect your credit score, unlike with BNPL plans and credit cards if payments are missed.




What Are the Origins of Layaway?
Layaway plans first appeared after the Great Depression, motivated by the financial hardship so many people were experiencing. They remained popular until supplanted by credit cards in the 1980s, then made something of a comeback after the Great Recession of 2008. Currently, their popularity is once again receding, with BNPL plans proving more popular.




Is a Layaway Plan Better Than Using a Credit Card?
It depends. Credit cards allow you to own your purchase immediately and don’t require a down payment to do so. Using them responsibly can build your credit score, which layaway plans usually don’t do. Furthermore, credit cards come with rewards programs, unlike layaway plans.That said, layaway plans usually don’t charge interest, while credit card interest rates can be quite high and mount quickly. And in the case of a default, with a credit card, your credit score will be damaged; with a layaway plan, it won’t be affected. And of course, you need good credit to get a credit card but not to be eligible for a layaway plan.If you can pay your credit card bill in full every month, it is a better way to buy goods than a layaway plan is. If you can’t, however, then layaway is probably the way to go.
What Is a Layoff?  

A layoff is the temporary or permanent termination of employment by an employer for reasons unrelated to the employee's performance.



Employees may be laid off when companies aim to cut costs, due to a decline in demand for their products or services, seasonal closure, or during an economic downturn. When laid off, employees lose all wages and company benefits but qualify for unemployment insurance or compensation.



Laid-off employees often do not lose their investment in company retirement plans such as a 401K and may be entitled to a severance package.





Key Takeaways

A layoff is an involuntary separation from work through no fault of employees, often initiated by the employer for economic reasons to cut costs. A layoff differs from a firing for cause such as unacceptable workplace behavior, which generally does not qualify the fired worker for unemployment insurance.Mass layoffs can damage the economies of the surrounding communities, especially those dependent on a single employer or industry.Some employers may offer severance agreements to laid-off workers. 


   Understanding Layoffs  

Layoffs typically affect groups of workers from several to thousands, as a result of an employer's effort to cut costs. That effort may be prompted by an economic downturn or corporate restructurings such as bankruptcy or a leveraged buyout by a private equity firm.



Layoffs are understandably unpopular with workers whether employers call them "downsizing," "rightsizing," or "smart sizing." Layoffs may also be termed a "workforce reduction" or a "reduction in force."



Employees in a late-career layoff may be offered "early retirement," replacing a paycheck with retirement benefits. Companies seeking to avoid or minimize layoffs may also offer longer-tenured workers a buyout as an inducement to leave voluntarily.






In some cases, employers conduct layoffs even when their businesses are thriving, either to increase profits or amid a shift in markets served or operations.


   Layoff vs. Furlough vs. Firing  

A layoff is distinct from a furlough, in which workers are idled for a time as a result of plant repairs or another event requiring a temporary work halt. In contrast with laid-off workers, furloughed employees keep their job titles and employee benefits with the expectation that they will eventually return to work.



Furloughs may also affect government employees when legislators are unable to agree on the appropriations required to pay their salaries. During a government shutdown, non-essential workers are typically furloughed, while workers in essential services may have to work with pay delayed until a funding agreement is reached.



Furloughed workers may be eligible to collect unemployment insurance benefits depending on their state's eligibility requirements.



An employee may be fired or terminated on the grounds of unsatisfactory performance, malfeasance, or breach of duty. If terminated for unacceptable workplace behavior, an employee generally does not qualify for unemployment insurance.


   Example of Mass Layoffs  

U.S. employers resorted to mass layoffs amid a drastic downturn in demand during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, as restrictions and contagion fears halted travel, shut restaurants, and idled many other service industries. U.S. employers cut more than 20 million jobs in April 2020 alone, and 22.4 million over two months ended the same month, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).



To preserve jobs, the U.S. government offered the Paycheck Protection Program, loans subsidizing businesses' payroll costs that would be forgiven under certain conditions. The program encouraged businesses not to lay off workers during the pandemic.


   Layoff Statistics  

Because financial markets participants care most about total employment, they tend to overlook layoff statistics in favor of the fresher monthly data on nonfarm payrolls and the unemployment rate



The monthly Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS), also from BLS, provides a combined count for layoffs and discharges—involuntary separations from employment, whether as a result of layoffs or for cause. In June 2022, BLS reported layoffs and discharges declined by 170,000 to 1.2 million in April 2022, the lowest monthly total in series history dating back to December 2000. In April 2022, layoffs and discharges affected 0.8% of the labor force.



Challenger, Gray & Christmas, Inc., a provider of career outplacement services, publishes a monthly report on layoffs announcements. In May 2022, it tallied 24,286 announced job cuts by U.S. employers in April 2022, a 14% increase from March and a 6% rise from a year earlier. Despite the increase, the nearly 80,000 job cuts announced by employers during the first four months of 2022 represented the lowest January through April total in the history of the survey dating back to 1993.


   Special Considerations  

While laid-off workers bear the brunt of layoffs, losing wages and benefits along with the satisfaction, purpose, and sense of security work can impart, mass job losses can also hurt the workers who remain, their communities and the broader economy, and even the employer.



For example, layoffs understandably disturb even the workers whose jobs are spared, increasing their anxiety and insecurity while lowering productivity and morale.



Diminished employee productivity as a result of layoffs can in turn erode the cost savings from a layoff. According to some economic studies, layoffs "are more costly than many organizations realize," and companies that reduce their workforce without other changes are unlikely to see long-term improvement.



Large layoffs can also inflict economic damage on the area where laid-off workers live, lowering demand for other goods and services and lowering tax revenue, especially if the area relies on a single employer or industry.




What Should You Do When You Get Laid Off?
The first step after a layoff is to carefully review your contract of employment, as well as any severance package your former employer may offer. This may include provisions on severance payments, employee benefits, and healthcare insurance. Employers may attach conditions to severance agreements, such as requiring you not to claim unemployment insurance. It may be a good idea to negotiate your severance agreement and have an attorney review any paperwork before you sign.




What Happens to Your Health Insurance When You Get Laid Off?
In most cases, your employer will stop paying for health insurance if you are laid off at the end of the month. After that, the federal COBRA program allows you to receive continued insurance for a term of 18 to 36 months, under certain conditions. COBRA coverage is significantly more expensive than employer-provided health insurance, so it may be better to seek coverage through one of the plans offered under the Affordable Care Act.




How Long After Being Laid Off Can I File for Unemployment?
According to the U.S. Department of Labor, you should file for unemployment insurance benefits as soon as possible if you become unemployed. To be eligible for unemployment insurance, you must be laid off or fired through no fault of your own, and meet certain wage and work requirements, such as length of time at your previous job. Some states may have additional requirements.




What Happens to My 401(k) After a Layoff?
Depending on the size of your 401(k), you may be able to leave it with your former employer. However, it may be a better idea to transfer plan proceeds either to a new employer (if they offer a similar plan) or into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA). It is essential to transfer the balance through a direct transfer between financial institutions rather than allowing the administrator of your former employer's 401(k) plan to cut you a check. Otherwise, you may incur an avoidable tax liability.




Who Gets Laid Off During a Merger?
Following mergers or acquisitions, many companies seek to eliminate redundancies in their expanded workforce. This will typically affect the C-suite and any other area where the new company has two departments performing similar functions. Since it's hard to predict which workers will be laid off, mergers are a common source of employee anxiety.


   The Bottom Line  

Layoffs are a painful but expected fact of life in a market economy exposed to competition and trade. Layoffs can be damaging psychologically as well as financially to the affected workers as well as their families, communities, colleagues, and other businesses. Government programs providing unemployment insurance and retraining can assist the newly unemployed.
What Is a Lead Bank?  

A lead bank is a bank that oversees the arrangement of loan syndication. The lead bank receives an additional fee for this service, which involves recruiting the syndicate members and negotiating the financing terms. In the Eurobond market, the lead bank acts in an agent capacity for an underwriting syndicate.



A lead bank is also known as a lead underwriter.





Key Takeaways

A lead bank coordinates and oversees a syndicate for underwriting loans (bonds) or shares to be sold to investors.The lead bank typically receives a more generous amount of fees than syndicate banks due to its coordinating role and responsibilities.Lead banks are key for coordinating and marketing IPOs as well as large corporate debt offerings.


   Understanding Lead Banks  

A lead bank usually refers to an investment bank that manages the process of underwriting a security in conjunction with other banks, known as syndicate banks. In this sense, the lead bank can also be referred to as a lead manager or managing underwriter. A more general meaning of this term is simply the primary bank of an organization that uses several banks for several different purposes.



The lead underwriting bank will usually work with other investment banks to establish an underwriter syndicate, and thereby create the initial sales force for a company's securities. These bonds or shares will then be sold to institutional and retail clients. The lead bank will usually be the one to assess the company financials and current market conditions to arrive at the initial value and quantity of shares to be sold. These securities often carry a hefty sales commission (as much as 6 to 8 percent) for the syndicate, with the majority of shares being held by the lead bank.


   The Role of the Lead Bank in Loan Syndication  

In loan syndication, multiple banks will work together to provide a borrower with the capital needed. Loan syndications generally form for corporate borrowing purposes, including for mergers, acquisitions, buyouts, and other capital projects. Situations that require loan syndication will usually involve a borrower who needs a large sum of capital that may be too much for a single lender to provide and/or outside the scope of this lender's risk exposure levels.



A lead bank, in this case, is often responsible for all aspects of the deal, including the initial transaction, fees, compliance reports, repayments throughout the duration of the loan, loan monitoring and overall reporting for all lenders within the deal. Lead banks of loan syndications may charge high fees because of the vast reporting and coordination efforts needed to complete and maintain loan processing. These fees can be as high as 10% of the loan principal.



At times the lead bank may rely on a third party and/or additional specialists throughout various points of the loan syndication or repayment process to assist with reporting and monitoring.


   The Role of the Lead Bank in Securities Underwriting  

In an initial public offering (IPO) or other forms of issuing securities, a lead bank may organize a group of underwriters, also called the underwriting syndicate, for the deal. As with a loan syndicate, the purpose of an underwriting syndicate is often to spread out risk and/or merge funds in a large deal.



Lead banks will assess an issuing company’s financials and current market conditions to arrive at an initial value and quantity of shares to be sold. Newly issued shares may carry a hefty sales commission for an underwriting syndicate (at times, nearly 6%–8%); however, the largest portion of shares will go to the lead bank.
What Is Lead Time?  

Lead time is the amount of time that passes from the start of a process until its conclusion. Companies review lead time in manufacturing, supply chain management, and project management during pre-processing, processing, and post-processing stages. By comparing results against established benchmarks, they can determine where inefficiencies exist.



Reducing lead time can streamline operations and improve productivity, increasing output and revenue. By contrast, longer lead times negatively affect sales and manufacturing processes.





Key Takeaways

Lead time measures how long it takes to complete a process from beginning to end.In manufacturing, lead time often represents the time it takes to create a product and deliver it to a consumer.Lead time is calculated by adding any combination of the number of days to procure materials, manufacture goods, and deliver finished products.Factors that can impact lead time include lack of raw materials, breakdown of transportation, labor shortages, natural disasters, and human errors.In some cases, companies can improve lead times by implementing automated stock replenishment and just-in-time (JIT) strategies.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Lead Time  

Production processes and inventory management can affect lead time. In regards to production, building all elements of a finished product onsite may take longer than completing some items offsite. Transportation issues can delay delivery of necessary parts, halting or slowing production and reducing output and return on investment (ROI). 



Using locally sourced parts and labor can shorten lead time and speed production, and offsite sub-assemblies can save additional time. Reducing production time allows companies to increase production during periods of high demand. Quicker production can increase sales, customer satisfaction, and the company’s bottom line.



Efficient inventory management is necessary to maintain production schedules and meet consumer demand. Stockouts occur when inventory, or stock, is unavailable preventing the fulfillment of a customer's order or product assembly. Production stops if an organization underestimates the amount of stock needed or fails to place a replenishment order and suppliers cannot replenish materials immediately. This can be costly for a company's bottom line.



One solution is to use a vendor-managed inventory (VMI) program, which provides automated stock replenishment. These programs often come from an off-site supplier, using just-in-time (JIT) inventory management for ordering and delivering components based on usage.






A great example of lead time is the time needed to process a passport. If you're planning on traveling internationally, prepare to get your passport renewed months in advance of your trip; the government estimates the lead time for routine passport processing as 8 to 11 weeks.


   How to Calculate Lead Time  

Lead time can be broken in several different components: the pre-processing, the processing, and the post-processing. These may be defined or stated differently, but the general formula to calculate lead time is:



Lead Time = Pre-Processing Time + Processing Time + Post-Processing Time



For a manufacturing company, the pre-processing time is the procurement stage where raw materials are sourced and delivered to its manufacturing headquarters or processing plant. The processing time is the manufacturing stage. The post-processing time is the stage of processing the order and delivering the final good to the customer.



Lead Time for Manufacturing Company = Procurement Time (for raw materials) + Manufacturing Time + Shipping Time



For a retail company, there is no manufacturing time as the retail firm does not manufacture its own good. In addition, the procurement time is different as instead of procuring raw materials, it sources final products to then sell directly to customers.



Lead Time for Retail Company = Procurement Time (for final products) + Shipping Time


   Lead Time and Supply Chain  

The lead time varies among supply chain sources, causing difficulty in predicting when to expect the delivery of items and coordinating production. Frequently the result is excess inventory, which places a strain on a company’s budget.



Lead time scheduling allows for the receipt of necessary components to arrive together, and reduces shipping and receiving costs. Some lead time delays cannot be anticipated. Shipping obstructions due to raw material shortages, natural disasters, human error, and other uncontrollable issues will affect lead time. For critical parts, a company may employ a backup supplier to maintain production. Working with a supplier who keeps inventory on hand while continuously monitoring a company’s usage helps alleviate the issues resulting from unanticipated events.



Stockpiling necessary parts may be cost-prohibitive, but reducing the number of surplus parts also helps place a ceiling on production costs. One solution is for companies to use kitting services to organize their inventory. With kitting services, inventory items are grouped based on their specific use in the project. Workers save time choosing from smaller lots of parts, keeping production more organized and efficient.






Using offsite assembly in overseas markets instead of shipping completed goods can help companies save money on tariffs.


   The Importance of Short Lead Time  

Short lead time is important as it impacts the financial, emotional, and operational aspects of a company and its relationship with its customer. Several specific examples of the importance of short lead time include:



Shorter lead time may lead to happier customers. At its core, lead time is the concept of getting a good to the customer the fastest. Once a customer places an order, they most often do not want to wait unnecessarily long periods of time. When lead time is short, customers get their product faster and will likely have greater customer satisfaction in their buying experience.
Shorter lead time may lead to less obsolescence. Goods with long lead times run the risk of obsolescence by the time they are manufactured. When a product has a short turnaround window, the company runs a smaller risk of the good no longer being in demand by the time it is finished. 
Shorter lead time may lead to less labor costs. If a company prioritizes reviewing its internal manufacturing process, it may cut out inefficiencies and eliminate unnecessary labor hours. This results in reduced costs and more efficient utilization of workers.
Shorter lead time may lead to more orders. If the market realizes one company has a shorter lead time, that company may end up with more orders especially if demand for its product is imminent. All else being equal, when two companies have a similar product, the market may be more likely to go with the company that can furnish the good faster.
Shorter lead time may lead to more efficient capital deployment. When cash is tied up in raw materials, it must wait to be processed into a finished good and sold before it gets converted back to cash. The longer this process, the longer the company is without capital it could be using to expand operations or strategically grow.


   How to Reduce Lead Time  

Though an entire manufacturing and distribution process may be complex with many stages, companies can take steps to reduce lead time and shorten the number of days for each process. Consider the following ways to reduce lead time:



Eliminate Unnecessary Processes. The easiest way to trim lead time is to eliminate steps or procedures that are not needed to facilitate a sale. This may mean sacrificing multiple reviews of quality control or assessing the efficiency of the manufacturing process. 
Monitor Transportation Methods. Not all transportation methods are created equally, and some may simply be better options. This relationship is also not static; what may be ideal this month must change due to extenuating circumstances due to labor shortages, natural disasters, or government legislation. A company should always monitor what shipment methods it and its suppliers are using and see if there are preferable methods available.
Incentivize Better Service. Whether it is incentivizing external parties like suppliers or internal parties like employees, lead time may be reduced by setting targets/expectations and awarding those who meet those expectations. Though resulting in an additional cost to a company, the potential increase in sales quantity may outweigh the incentive or bonus payouts needed to move product faster.
Procure Differently. Some suppliers act more promptly than others; some suppliers may also be local and require shorter shipping expectations. When attempting to decrease lead time, a company should assess its current suppliers and see where there are efficiencies to be had.
Carry Higher Inventory. On one hand, carrying more inventory results in higher storage, security, and insurance costs and has a greater risk of theft or obsolescence. Alternatively, having inventory on hand allows a company to not need to wait for shipments to arrive.
Reorder More Often. If you don't want to carry more inventory, consider placing more frequent material orders. This may result in materials already being in transit before you realized you'd need them. Though you run the risk of ending up too much inventory on hand, the alternative is to preemptively plan excess inventory levels.
Promote Internal Learning. The internal manufacturing process is only as efficient as the laborers who know the process. By prioritizing cross-training and learning opportunities, companies may end up with stronger labor numbers with staff more knowledgeable and proficient about the process.


   Types of Lead Time  

There are three primary types of lead time; each must be considered in conjunction with each other to set overall expectations of a manufacturing process. Therefore, these three primary types often flow into a fourth type of aggregated lead time.


  Customer Lead Time  

The customer lead time is the amount of time between when a customer places an order and when the customer receives the product. This includes the time between when a customer places an online order and the company receives the order confirmation. Then, it includes the entire manufacturing process, shipping process, and delivery process.


  Material Lead Time  

The material lead time is the amount of time between when a company becomes aware of a need for raw materials and when the materials are physically obtained. Companies are often alerted by inventory management systems when orders are processed. This lead time may be influenced by information systems that notify management when current inventory levels are low. It may also be impacted by ordering, shipping, delivery, and fulfillment by suppliers.


  Production Lead Time  

Once materials have been received, the production lead time kicks off. This is the amount of time between when a company has all necessary resources on hand to manufacture a product and when it completes the manufacturing process. Unlike other lead times, this entire lead time should be internally manageable and depends on internal factors such as waste, labor, equipment efficiency, PPE availability, and machinery downtime.


  Cumulative Lead Time  

Lead times above may be aggregated to create a fourth lead time, and companies may track different cumulative lead times. For example, a company may be interested in the internal lead time (i.e. when raw materials are sourced to when the final product is manufactured).






Though it may seem bureaucratic, breaking lead time into the categories above helps a company identify the strong and weak points along the sale process.


   Factors That Affect Lead Time  

Analyzing the lead time formula for a manufacturing company, the factors that affect lead time can be broken into three categories: the procurement factors, the manufacturing factors, and the shipping factors.


  Procurement Lead Time Factors  

Procurement lead time factors all relate to the sourcing of raw materials for production. Well-established companies with strong relationships with suppliers may be less impacted by these factors; still, when relying to external companies, there is always the risk that lead time falters due to an external failure to deliver. Procurement lead time factors that increase lead time include:



The company is not yet aware what raw materials they need.
The company is slow to submit a purchase request.
The company does not have a select supplier for a specific raw material.
The company wishes to negotiate the price or term or the purchase.
The company has an elaborate inspection process for delivered goods.


  Manufacturing Lead Time Factors  

Manufacturing lead time factors are relatively all controllable for a company. This internal-only stage of the sale process means a company may change processes, personnel, or equipment to improve or worsen lead time. As opposed to the other two lead time factors, a company should have almost full discretion over the manufacturing lead time factors. These factors that result in longer lead times include:



The layout or location of the processing plant(s) is inefficient. 
The company has inadequate power or utility service.
The company struggles to have sufficient and proficient laborers.
The company is unable to efficiently transfer finished goods to its warehouse for distribution.
The company faces government regulation impeding or slowing the manufacturing process.
Equipment failure or required periodic maintenance slow the production process.
The company awaits specialized or custom parts needed to manufacture a good.
The company must rework products due to lack of quality.


  Shipping Lead Time Factors  

When the finished product is sent to a customer, many factors are out of the hands of the company. Though the company can control how fast an item gets off the production line and onto a delivery vessel, a company is often at the whim of whatever delivery method they choose. These factors include:



The company selecting a slower, more cost effective method of delivery.Natural conditions or weather impede the delivery process.The company fails to collect accurate remittance information and must inefficiently redirect shipment.The company mishandles the shipment and must prepare a more secure, safe delivery.External factors such as disrupted supply chain management cause broad transportation issues.


   Example of Lead Time  

Imagine a large festival that takes place during the first week of August every year that attracts 100,000 people on average and typically sells 15,000 festival T-shirts. The vendor that supplies the T-shirts needs one business day to complete the shirt design, one business day to have it proofed and make any necessary fixes, one business day to print the shirts, and two business days to ship the items.



The lead time in this example would be five business days. In other words, the festival organizers need to place their order with the T-shirt supplier at least five business days before the opening of the festival in order to get the shirts on time.



Of course, that lead time can be shortened in some extreme situations if the buyer is willing to pay a premium. If T-shirt sales on the first day of the festival exceed expectations, festival organizers may decide to order additional shirts on the second day with the hope that they can be delivered by the third day.



Since the shirts have already been designed and approved, that means five days of lead time can be reduced to three. To meet that shortened lead time, the vendor would need to print the additional shirts as quickly as possible in order to ship them overnight for delivery the following morning.



Additional factors can affect lead time in this example. If festival organizers want a certain percentage of the T-shirts to be fuchsia and the vendor does not regularly keep fuchsia T-shirts in stock, that can increase the lead time because the vendor will need to order shirts in that color.




What Are the Types of Lead Time?
The main types of lead time are customer lead time, material lead time, factory, or production lead time, and cumulative lead time. The first three types of lead time are summed to arrive at the fourth type of lead time.




What Are the Main Components of Lead Time?
The main factors that make up lead time are preprocessing, processing, waiting, storage, transportation, and inspection. The factors are often compiled into the three main stages of an order: the before (pre-processing), the during (processing), and the after (shipping).




What Is Lead Time in Shipping?
Lead time in shipping is the period of time between when an order is first received and when it reaches the customer. It includes the processing of the order and then the time spent delivering a package. 


   The Bottom Line  

Lead time describes the amount of time it takes to complete a specific process. In business, lead time is often used to describe the amount of time it takes to process an order, manufacture a product, delivery a good, or a combination of these processes. Companies with shorter lead time may have less finished inventory on hand, more efficient processes that may cost less, and generally happier customers.
What Is Leadership?  

Leadership in business is the capacity of a company's management to set and achieve challenging goals, take fast and decisive action when needed, outperform the competition, and inspire others to perform at the highest level they can.



It can be difficult to place a value on leadership or other qualitative aspects of a company, versus quantitative metrics that are commonly tracked and much easier to compare between companies. Leadership can also speak to a more holistic approach, as in the tone a company's management sets or the culture of the company that management establishes.



Individuals with strong leadership skills in the business world often rise to executive positions such as CEO (chief executive officer), COO (chief operating officer), CFO (chief financial officer), president, and chair.





Key Takeaways

Leadership is setting and achieving goals, tackling the competition, and solving problems decisively and quickly.Leadership also refers to the tone a company's management sets in terms of the corporate culture.Some people with strong leadership skills in the business world rise to become the CEO, COO, CFO, president, or chair of their companies.


   Understanding Leadership  

Leadership provides direction for a company and its workers. Employees need to know the direction in which the company is headed and who to follow to reach the destination. Leadership involves showing workers how to effectively perform their responsibilities and regularly supervising the completion of their tasks.



Leadership is also about setting a positive example for staff to follow, by being excited about the work, being motivated to learn new things, and helping out as needed in both individual and team activities.






Leadership involves setting and achieving goals, taking action, and beating the competition, but it also relates to the tone of the company's management and what kind of culture is built for the employees.


   The Components of Effective Leadership  

Effective leadership includes exhibiting a strong character. Leaders exhibit honesty, integrity, trustworthiness, and ethics. Leaders act in line with how they speak and earn the right to be responsible for others’ success in the company.



Strong leadership involves clear communication skills. Leaders speak with and listen to staff members, respond to questions and concerns, and are empathetic. Leaders use effective communication skills for moving the company forward and achieving new levels of success.



True leadership sees where the company is headed and plans the steps needed to get there. Visualizing what is possible, following trends in the industry, and taking risks to grow the business are all required of leaders.



Productive leadership shows optimism and provides positive energy for staff. Good leaders are supportive and are truly concerned about the well-being of others. Leaders find answers to challenges and reassure and inspire workers when things go awry. Leaders find ways for staff to work together and achieve maximum results in an efficient and effective manner.






Influential business leaders including Jack Welch, Warren Buffett, Bill Gates, and Steve Jobs have shaped their industries and the broader economy—Investopedia looks at how they developed winning strategies, inspired their employees, and achieved success.


   An Example of Leadership  

Jack Welch exhibited leadership as chief executive officer (CEO) of General Electric Co. from 1981 to 2001. He played an integral part in 600 acquisitions in emerging markets and increased GE’s market value from $12 billion to $505 billion at the time of his retirement. Because the world is constantly changing, Welch insisted everyone at GE embrace change. To continue evolving company operations and producing greater output, managers, and employees had to continuously reinvent themselves and their work.



Welch hired managers who shared his vision of GE, had endless amounts of energy, and was able to encourage employees to stay engaged in their work. He sought managers who created, developed, and refined ideas for the future and found ways to make them a reality. He also insisted that managers work side-by-side with employees as a way of understanding what they were doing and why.



As a result of Welch’s leadership style, managers and employees were more empowered, products gained higher quality, and customer satisfaction and profits increased dramatically.




What Are Some Qualities of an Effective Leader?
There are several qualities that a good leader should have. Among these include the ability to motivate individuals, a willingness to listen, being trustworthy, having competence, decisiveness, good communication skills, and selflessly understanding the goals of the team or organization.




What Are Some Negative Traits in a Leader?
Not all leaders are effective, and even good leaders can have their faults. Some negative qualities commonly found in leaders include selfishness, quickness to anger, impatience, rudeness, inconsistency, micro-managing, and incompetence.




What Are Some Different Leadership Styles?
There are different ways to be an effective leader. One is to lead by example, showing others how to proceed and coaching them. Another is to delegate tasks to others based on their skills and experience. A third is to direct others from a position of authority. Finally, a good leader can be supportive and help team members achieve their goals.
What Is a Leadership Grid?  

The Leadership Grid is a model of behavioral leadership developed in the 1960s by Robert Blake and Jane Mouton. Previously known as the Managerial Grid, the Leadership Grid is based on two behavioral dimensions: concern for production, which is plotted on the X-axis on a scale from one to nine points; and concern for people, which is plotted on a similar scale along the Y-axis.



The model identified five leadership styles by their relative positions on the grid. The first number in the examples below reflects a leader's concern for production; the second number is a leader's concern for people.



Impoverished (1,1)Produce or Perish (9, 1)Middle of the Road (5, 5)Country Club (1, 9)Team (9, 9)





Key Takeaways

The Leadership Grid is a model of behavioral leadership developed in the 1960s to measure concern for production against concern for people.The grid identifies five types of leaders: Impoverished, Produce or Perish, Middle of the Road, Country Club, and Team.The Team approach is considered the most effective form of leadership, according to the creators of the Leadership Grid.


   Understanding the Leadership Grid  

The Leadership Grid demonstrates that placing an undue emphasis on one area, while overlooking the other, stifles productivity. The model proposes that the Team leadership style, which displays a high degree of concern for both production and people, may boost employee productivity.



Some of the perceived benefits of using the Leadership Grid include its ability to measure performance as well as the ability to perform a self-analysis of your own leadership style. Businesses and organizations continue to use the grid.



There are some perceived limitations to the Leadership Grid, however. For example, it may offer a flawed self-assessment, due in part to its use of minimal empirical data to support the effectiveness of the grid. The model also does not take into account a variety of factors, such as the work environment and internal or external variables that may be factors.


   Types of Behaviors Found on the Leadership Grid  

The Impoverished or Indifferent leadership style in the model refers to the style that shows little regard for the team or overall production. Such leaders' efforts and concerns are more centered on self-preservation, which includes not allowing any actions to blowback on them.



The Produce or Perish leadership style focuses solely on production with a Draconian disregard for the needs of the workers on the team. The leader who follows this path may see high attrition rates due to their need for control and neglect of the team's needs.



The Middle of the Road leadership approach offers a balance of speaking to the team’s needs as well as the organization’s production needs, but neither aspect is adequately fulfilled in the process. This may lead to average and below average results in team performance and satisfaction. 



Someone with a Country Club leadership style sees the team’s needs first and foremost over everything else. The assumption by the leader is that happiness within the team will naturally lead to improved productivity; however, there is no guarantee.



The Team approach is considered to be the most effective form of leadership, according to the Leadership Grid's creators. The leader shows a commitment to staff empowerment as well as toward increasing productivity. By encouraging the workers to operate as a team, the belief is they will be motivated to accomplish more.
What Is a Leading Indicator?  

A leading indicator is a measurable set of data that may help to forecast future economic activity. Leading economic indicators can be used to predict changes in the economy before the economy begins to shift in a particular direction. They have the potential to be useful for businesses, investors, and policy makers.



Leading indicators are one of three main types of indicators. The other two are lagging indicators and coincident indicators.





Key Takeaways

A leading indicator is economic data that may correspond with a future movement or change in the economy.Leading economic indicators can help to predict an occurrence or forecast the timing of events and trends in business, markets, and the economy. Different leading indicators vary in their accuracy and leading relationships, so it is wise to consult a range of leading indicators when planning for the future.Leading indicator examples include the Consumer Confidence Index, Purchasing Managers’ Index, initial jobless claims, and average hours worked.Lagging indicators are metrics that can confirm change rather than predict it.


   Understanding Leading Indicators  

Leading indicators must be measurable to be useful as predictors of where the economy may be headed. Policy makers and central bankers use leading indicators when setting fiscal or monetary policy. Businesses study them to anticipate the effect of future economic conditions and then make strategic decisions regarding markets and revenue.



All businesses track their own bottom lines and balance sheets, but such data are lagging indicators, meaning they're produced by events that have already happened. Importantly, a business’ past performance does not necessarily indicate how it will do in the future. 



Investors use leading indicators to guide their investment strategies as they try to anticipate market conditions. Many focus on those indicators directly related to the stock market. These can include the housing market, retail sales, building permits, business startups, and more.


   Examples of Leading Indicators  
  Purchasing Managers’ Index  

Economists closely watch the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI). The PMI reflects trends in the manufacturing and service sectors and can be a useful signal of growth in a nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) due to changes in the demand for materials from corporations.


  Durable Goods Orders  

Durable goods orders is a monthly survey of manufacturers that is produced by the U.S. Census Bureau. It measures industrial activity in the durable goods sector and the state of the supply chain.


  Consumer Confidence Index  

Along with durable goods orders, many people consider the Consumer Confidence Index (CCI) to be one of the most accurate leading indicators. This index surveys consumers about their attitudes toward the economy and their perceptions of economic activity going forward.


  Jobless Claims  

The U.S. Department of Labor provides a weekly report on the number of jobless claims as an indicator of the economy’s health. A rise in jobless claims indicates a weakening economy, which could have a negative effect on the stock market. A drop in jobless claims may indicate that companies are growing (and hiring), which can be positive for the stock market. 


  Yield Curve  

Many market participants consider the yield curve to be a leading indicator. Of particular interest is the spread between two-year and 10-year Treasury yields. This is because two-year yields in excess of 10-year yields have been correlated to both recession and short-term market volatility. If such an inverted yield curve occurs, it may signal that a recession is approaching.


  Company Performance  

While not a metric issued by economists or government agencies, customer complaints or negative online reviews can be seen as a leading indicator of customer dissatisfaction that may signal problems with a business’ product quality or service failures. These can point to lower future revenue, growth, or profits. Conversely, positive customer satisfaction data may suggest that these factors will trend upward in the future.






Leading indicators often present tradeoffs among accuracy, precision, and lead time in predicting future events.


   Accuracy of Leading Indicators and How to Use Them  
  Conflicting Signals  

Leading indicators are not always accurate. However, looking at several leading indicators in conjunction with other types of data may provide actionable information about the future health of an economy.



An ideal leading indicator would predict changes in economic trends or business performance accurately, within a narrow range of estimates, and over a major time horizon. However, in practice, all leading indicators show variable performance along these lines. 



For example, the advance warning of economic downturns provided by capital goods new orders data can offer a long lead time for action. However, the historical lead time between turning points in capital goods and a specific target indicator such as changing stock prices or GDP may range from 12 to 24 months. You end up with data indicating a long lead time for action but low precision about when to take it.



What's more, the magnitude of changes in capital goods new orders might not bear any consistent relationship with the size of changes in GDP, making it inaccurate except as an indicator of timing. Therefore, this indicator would be useful as a long-term warning sign, but it would not support a precise estimate of the timing or size of future trends.



On the other hand, a leading indicator might give highly accurate and precise information about a turning point or trend in the market or the economy, but only over a few months or quarters. Such an indicator could provide detailed input for estimating the trends that affect your business or investments. But it might not provide that information in sufficient time to take full advantage of the insight gained. 



By themselves, both types of leading indicators might be helpful. Yet neither provides the full picture needed to maximize performance. In practice, this means that using a range of different leading indicators that are more or less accurate, precise, and forward-looking can provide the best opportunity to capitalize on future trends. 






While leading indicators can provide insight into the advisability of taking actions as a government, a business, or an investor, they have nothing to do with the impact that results from taking those actions.


   Leading Indicators vs. Lagging Indicators  

Leading indicators are used to predict future economic performance. Lagging indicators are data that reflect past economic performance. They're used to confirm economic change and financial market patterns.


  Leading Indicators  

Measurable data that can indicate a potential upcoming change in the economy before it happens.They can alert users to specific economic changes and/or changing trends.Used by economists, analysts, businesses, and investors to predict and take action ahead of economic/financial change.Not always accurate and can be enhanced when studied with other economic data.They are based on data related to the activities of different areas of the economy.


  Lagging Indicators  

Measurable data that reflects the effects of economic activity after it happens.They can confirm for users certain economic and business trends, quality of performance, and the impact of business decisions.Used by government, businesses, and investors to determine future strategies as they relate to proven (or unproven) assumptions and expectations.Data is considered reliable.They are based on facts and financial outcomes that relate to economic activities that previously occurred.




What Are Leading and Lagging Indicators?
Leading indicators are measurable pieces or sets of data that may suggest future economic, business, or investment trends. A lagging indicator is a measurable figure or set of data that changes at some point after an economic or business trend occurs.




What Are the 3 Types of Economic Indicators?
Leading indicators are one of the three main types of broader economic indicators. The others are lagging indicators (which reflect past activity) and coincident indicators (which reflect current activity).




Where Can I Find Reports on Leading Indicators?
The reports are issued by various government agencies and other organizations. Certain business publications (e.g., the Wall Street Journal) will publish a calendar of upcoming announcements as well as the actual data. Some of the entities responsible for the data include the The Conference Board (Consumer Confidence Index), the U.S. Department of Labor (jobless claims), and the U.S. Census Bureau (durable goods orders).




What Is an Example of a Leading Indicator?
One of the most famous examples is the Consumer Confidence Index (CCI). This is a survey regularly performed by The Conference Board to determine how optimistic or pessimistic consumers are about their expected future financial situation.


   The Bottom Line  

Leading indicators have the potential to be a highly valuable tool for economists, investors, business owners, and consumers. When used properly, they can signal upcoming changes and broad trends in the economy.



However, the economy is not guaranteed to behave in the way that leading indicators suggest, and it is crucial that you know which indicators are most appropriate to evaluate and how to properly make use of them.
What Are Leads and Lags?  

Leads and lags in international business usually refer to the deliberate acceleration or delaying of payments due in a foreign currency in order to take advantage of an expected change in currency exchange rates.



Corporations and governments may time payments due in a foreign currency if they anticipate a change in currency values that is in their favor.





Key Takeaways

Leads and lags refer to the timing of payments (delaying or advancing) on international business agreements to take advantage of a more favorable or anticipated exchange rate changes.Businesses can use currency forward contracts and points to adjust a future exchange rate up or down.Not all currency-rate events can be forecast, but those that can are often tied to political or financial events.


   Understanding Leads and Lags  

A corporation or government can control the schedule of payments received or made, within reasonable limits. When a payment to a foreign entity is involved, the organization may opt to pay earlier or later than scheduled. These changes would be made in anticipation of capturing the benefit from a change in currency exchange rates.



This consideration can affect the smallest or the largest transactions. If a company in one country were about to acquire a company in another country, and the target company's country currency was expected to decrease in value relative to the acquiring company's country, delaying the purchase would be in the interest of the acquiring company.



A strengthening of the currency being paid out would lead to a smaller payout for the entity in question, while a weakening of the currency would lead to increased costs the longer the payment was delayed.


   Risks of Leading and Lagging  

Because it amounts to a timing strategy, leading and lagging implies risks. Currency rates can move in an unexpected direction.



When a business has an expected foreign exchange transaction, it may need to buy or sell the currency that it needs to complete the transaction. Currency prices move in response to supply and demand between Forex traders, companies, and nations. On the forex market, a transaction between currencies settles on the spot date—for most currency pairs this is two business days after the order was placed. Companies might also enter into a currency forward contract which locks the rate of the exchange.



If it is expected that a currency's future price will decline against the spot price, it is known as a forward discount. Counterparties apply forward points to the future exchange creating either a forward discount or a forward permium.


   Examples of Timing a Foreign Payment  

Currency exchange rates are difficult to forecast, but certain financial and political events may play out according to a predictable schedule. These predicable scheduled events can provide insight into the direction of a exchange rate. Such events can include elections and budget deadlines.



For example, Great Britain's decision to exit the European Union, known as Brexit, was triggered by a referendum on June 23, 2016. The British pound fell in value versus the U.S. dollar immediately after the vote. It kept falling for some weeks afterward before recovering slightly. As of May 25, 2022, it still has not recovered to its pre-Brexit levels.



If a U.S. company has agreed to buy a Canadian asset it will need to buy Canadian dollars and sell U.S. dollars to complete the transaction. The Canadian dollar moves constantly in its value compared to the U.S. dollar. In the year ending May 25, 2022, for example, the Canadian currency ranged between about $1.20 and about $1.30 in comparison to the U.S. dollar.



If the company believes the Canadian dollar is going to strengthen against the U.S. dollar. it will accelerate the transaction (lead) before the price of the asset increases in U.S. dollar terms. If the company believes the Canadian dollar will weaken, it will hold off payment (lag) in the hope that the bill becomes cheaper in U.S. dollar terms.



What if the company guesses wrong? If, for example, the Bank of Canada unexpectedly raises interest rates the Canadian dollar will strengthen. That will make the company's decision to hold off paying detrimental. Some companies hedge their bets by making part of the payment at the time of the agreement and waiting to pay the remainder.
What Is Leakage?  

In economics, leakage refers to capital or income that diverges from some kind of iterative system.



Leakage is usually used in relation to a particular depiction of the flow of income within a system, referred to as the circular flow of income and expenditure, in the Keynesian model of economics. Within this depiction, leakages are the non-consumption uses of income, including saving, taxes, and imports.





Key Takeaways

In economics, leakage refers to capital or income that diverges from some kind of iterative system.Leakage is usually used in relation to a particular depiction of the flow of income within a system, referred to as the circular flow of income and expenditure, in the Keynesian model of economics.Imported goods are sometimes referred to as a source of "leakage" because they can have the effect of transferring income that was earned in one country to another country.


   Understanding Leakage  

This particular Keynesian model of the flow of income is usually depicted as a circle, and the components include national income, output, consumption, and factor payments. Non-consumption uses of income—savings, taxes, and imports—are "leaked" out of the main flow. This reduces the money available throughout the rest of the economy.



This theory of Keynesian economics purports that when leakage causes a shortage of capital, governments might have to take steps to stimulate their economies by injecting cash into their systems. This injection of funds can be achieved by increasing the level of exports to foreign nations, or by borrowing funds from investors or foreign governments.


  Imported Goods  

Imported goods are sometimes referred to as a source of "leakage" because they can have the effect of transferring income that was earned in one country to another country. The funds used to purchase the imports leave the immediate area, resulting in an outflow from the domestic area.



When the term leakage is used In the retail sector, it usually refers to consumers who spend money outside their local market. This presents a challenge for businesses within this kind of economy; in general, they must search for other sources of revenue.


  Another Scenario  

Another scenario where leakage is relevant is in a model of credit creation that assumes that all loans borrowed from a bank re-deposited into the system. Of course, this would never happen in reality, but it allows for a simple calculation of the amount of credit that is created.



In reality, cash leakages occur when amounts of money are borrowed from banks but not re-deposited. Leakages also occur in the form of funds deposited in banks but not lent out. In this system, cash leakage lowers the ability of credit creation.


  Transnational Corporations  

In the case of transnational corporations (TNCs), leakage can also occur. Large companies sometimes have factories or production facilities in other countries, and these factories create wealth for the company which is then not transferred to the economy of the host country (and instead to that of the corporation involved). The economic value of goods and profits lost here is leakage.



Tourism can cause leakage through funds transitioning between those who live in a particular area and chosen tourist destinations. Additionally, tourism-based businesses that have facilities in one area but hold headquarters in another can create leakage as funds are shifted to the headquarters location.



Information or data leakage occurs when internal information that should be held private or confidential is released to the public. This release of information can include the accidental or intentional disclosure of information, or a failure to secure the information, which leads to exposure.
What Is Lean Six Sigma?  

Lean Six Sigma is a team-focused managerial approach that seeks to improve performance by eliminating resource waste and defects.



It combines Six Sigma methods and tools with the lean manufacturing/lean enterprise philosophy. It strives to eliminate the waste of physical resources, time, effort, and talent while assuring quality in production and organizational processes.



Simply put, Lean Six Sigma teaches that any use of resources that doesn't create value for the end customer is considered a waste and should be eliminated.





Key Takeaways

Lean Six Sigma seeks to improve employee and company performance by eliminating the waste of resources and process/product defects.It combines the process improvement methods of Six Sigma and lean enterprise.Lean Six Sigma helps to establish a clear path to achieving improvement objectives.The Lean strategy was established by Toyota in the 1940s and attempts to streamline operational processes, from manufacturing to transactions.Six Sigma originated in the 1980s and seeks to improve output quality by reducing defects.


   Understanding Lean Six Sigma  

Lean Six Sigma is a combination of Lean methodology and Six Sigma strategy. Lean methodology was established by Japanese automaker Toyota in the 1940s. Its purpose was to remove non-value-adding activities from the production process.



Six Sigma, on the other hand, was established in the 1980s by an engineer at U.S. telecommunications company Motorola who was inspired by Japan's Kaizen model. It was trademarked by the company in 1993. Its method seeks to identify and reduce defects in the production process. It also strives to streamline the variability of the production process.



Lean Six Sigma emerged in the 1990s as large U.S. manufacturers attempted to compete with Japan's better-made products. The combination strategy was introduced by Michael George and Robert Lawrence Jr. in their 2002 book Lean Six Sigma: Combining Six Sigma with Lean Speed.






Companies can arrange for Lean Six Sigma training and certification from a wide selection of organizations that specialize in the approaches of Lean Six Sigma and Six Sigma.


  The Lean Six Sigma Concept  

The lean concept of management focuses on the reduction and elimination of eight kinds of waste known as DOWNTIME, an acronym formed by the words defects, overproduction, waiting, non-utilized talent, transportation, inventory, motion, and extra-processing. Lean refers to any method, measure, or tool that helps in the identification and elimination of waste.



The term Six Sigma refers to tools and techniques that are used to improve manufacturing processes. The strategy attempts to identify and eliminate the causes of defects and variations in business and manufacturing processes.



Six Sigma's DMAIC phases are utilized in Lean Six Sigma. The acronym stands for define, measure, analyze, improve, and control. It refers to the data-driven five-step method for improving, optimizing, and stabilizing business and manufacturing processes.



A Lean Six Sigma approach that combines Lean strategy and Six Sigma's tools and techniques highlights processes that are prone to waste, defects, and variation and then reduces them to ensure improvement in a company's operational processes.


  Lean Six Sigma Techniques  

The techniques and tools used to accomplish essential goals of the Lean Six Sigma strategy include:



Kanban: Workflow management practices, such as work visualization and limited work in progress, which maximize efficiency and promote continuous improvement.
Kaizen: Practices that engage employees and promote a work environment that emphasizes self-development and ongoing improvement.
Value stream mapping: Analyze places to eliminate waste and optimize process steps.
5S tool: Method to ensure that the workplace is efficient, productive, safe, and successful.





JIT

Lean Six Sigma Just-In-Time (JIT) training allows employees to focus resources on what customers need, when they need it, rather than building up unnecessary inventory.


   Lean Six Sigma Phases  

The DMAIC phases of Lean Six Sigma are Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, and Control. They are used to identify and improve existing process problems with unknown root causes.


  Define  

Define the problem from a company perspective, stakeholder perspective, and customer perspective. Figure out the quality expectations that customers have and the extent of the problem.


  Measure  

Examine the current process and how it contributes to the problem. Determine whether the process can meet the previously defined quality expectations of customers. Match each process step to your quality criteria. Support your measurements with actual performance data.


  Analyze  

Examine all information gathered thus far to finalize the exact nature of the problem, its scope, and its cause.


  Improve  

Solve the problem and verify the improvement. Collaborate to structure a solution that eliminates both the problem and its cause. Use your data to ensure that the solution fits the issue at hand. Test the solution and derive performance data to support it.


  Control  

Monitor improvement and continue to improve where possible. Finalize acceptable performance criteria. Establish a plan that can deal with variations that occur, sustain improvements, and prevent a reoccurrence of the original problem.






DMAIC works best when used to solve a problem relating to a process, quality, or waste issue in an organization.


   Lean Six Sigma Belt Levels  

Lean Six Sigma training uses Belts to denote Lean Six Sigma expertise. The exact specifications for each Belt may differ depending on what organization provides the certification.










 Belt Level
Meaning
Reports To...




White
Understands the meaning and goals of Lean Six Sigma, knows the terms associated with the methodology.
Green or Black Belts


Yellow
Understands essential Lean Six Sigma concepts, tools, and techniques; can be part of project teams and receive Just-In-Time (JIT) training.
Green or Black Belts


Green
Has some expertise in Lean Six Sigma strategy; can launch and manage Lean Six Sigma projects and provide JIT training to others. Focuses on the use of tools and the application of DMAIC and Lean principles.
Black Belts


Black
Advanced Lean Six Sigma expertise; can be full-time, cross-functional project team leaders, as well as a coach or mentor to Green Belts. Responsible for putting Lean Six Sigma changes into place.
Master Black Belts


Master Black
Has extensive Lean Six Sigma expertise; typically responsible for the Lean Six Sigma initiative. Can act as coach or mentor and monitor projects. Works with company leaders to identify efficiency gaps and training needs.
C-suite executives





   Benefits of Lean Six Sigma  

There are a number of established benefits to Lean Six Sigma methods for employees, customers, vendors, and the company.



By increasing the efficiency of important processes, companies can improve the work experience for employees and the customer experience for buyers. This can build loyalty inside and outside of a company.



Streamlined, simplified processes can increase control and a company's ability to capitalize on new opportunities quickly. They can also lead to more sales and revenue, lower costs, and more successful business results.



Involving employees in a group or a company-wide efficiency effort can improve their skills (e.g., analytical thinking and project management), improve their growth opportunities, and boost camaraderie. By preventing defects, companies save on the time, money, and human effort previously required to identify and eliminate them.


   Lean Six Sigma vs. Six Sigma  

Lean Six Sigma and Six Sigma are two related strategies that can solve process problems. Both can help companies make noteworthy improvements in quality, efficiency, and use of time by analyzing the way their processes function. Both use the DMAIC phases/method. Both are based on creating a problem-solving workplace culture.



However, Six Sigma is focused on reducing defects and process variability to improve process output and quality to meet customer expectations. Lean Six Sigma is focused on reducing or eliminating the wasteful use of resources and defects to improve workflow and create more value for customers.



Lean Six Sigma combines aspects of Six Sigma (such as data analysis) and aspects of the Lean methodology (such as waste-eliminating tools) to improve process flow, maintain continuous improvement, and achieve business goals.




What Is the Meaning of Lean Six Sigma?
Lean Six Sigma is a process improvement strategy that seeks to eliminate inefficiencies in a company's process flow by identifying the causes of waste or redundancy and developing solutions to address them.




What Are the 5 Principles of Lean Six Sigma?
Define, measure, analyze, improve, and control are the five principles and phases of Lean Six Sigma. They're the steps practitioners take to create more efficient processes and a workplace culture that's focused on continuous improvement.




Why Is Lean Six Sigma Important?
Many consider it important for the measurable and consistent improvements in operations and business results that companies achieve using it. It also might be considered important because it combines the significant process streamlining of the Lean methodology of the 1940s with the Six Sigma data-driven approach of the 1980s.




What Is Lean Six Sigma Training?
Lean Six Sigma training instructs students in the basics of Six Sigma methodology, as well as the Six Sigma DMAIC roadmap. Students also learn how to apply the concepts in practical scenarios as they go through the courses.




How Much Does It Cost to Get Lean Six Sigma Training?
The cost of Lean Six Sigma Training varies depending on whether you take courses online, taught by a virtual instructor, or in-person, as well as the level of belt you are pursuing. A one-day White Belt training can range from $99 to $499. An eight-day Master Black Belt training costs $4975 for both in-person and live virtual training. A three- to four-day course in Lean Fundamentals ranges from $1300 to $2000 or $399 to $774 for an online training.


   The Bottom Line  

Lean Six Sigma is a management approach and method that endeavors to eliminate any wasteful use of resources plus defects in production processes so as to improve employee and company performance.



It draws on the Lean concept of the 1940s established by Japan's Toyota to reduce waste and the Six Sigma strategy of the 1980s established by U.S. company Motorola to reduce defects.



By combining these teachings, Lean Six Sigma puts the best of both to work to streamline efficient operations and financial outcomes for all kinds of organizations.
What Is Lean Startup?  

A lean startup is a method used to found a new company or introduce a new product on behalf of an existing company. The lean startup method advocates developing products that consumers have already demonstrated they desire so that a market will already exist as soon as the product is launched. As opposed to developing a product and then hoping that demand will emerge.


   Gaging Consumer Interest  

By employing lean startup principles, product developers can gauge consumer interest in the product and determine how the product might need to be refined. This process is called validated learning and it can be utilized to avoid the unnecessary use of resources in product creation and development. Through lean startup, if an idea is likely to fail, it will fail quickly and cheaply instead of slowly and expensively, hence the term “fail-fast.”



The lean startup method was developed by American entrepreneur Eric Ries, founder, and CEO of the Long-Term Stock Exchange (LTSE). He fully explains the method in his bestselling book, The Lean Startup, which has been translated into 30 languages.






Lean startup is an example of consumers dictating the type of products they are offered by their respective markets, rather than those markets dictating what products will be offered to them. 


   Lean Startup vs. Traditional Businesses   

The lean startup method also differentiates itself from the traditional business model when it comes to hiring. Lean startups hire workers who can learn, adapt, and work quickly while traditional businesses hire workers based on experience and ability. Lean startups also use different financial reporting metrics; instead of focusing on income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements, they focus on customer acquisition cost, lifetime customer value, customer churn rate, and how viral their product could be.


   Requirements for Lean Startup  

The lean startup method considers experimentation to be more valuable than detailed planning. Five-year business plans built around unknowns are considered a waste of time, and customer reaction is paramount.



Instead of business plans, lean startups use a business model based on hypotheses that are tested rapidly. Data does not need to be completed before proceeding; it just needs to be sufficient. When customers do not react as desired, the startup quickly adjusts to limit its losses and return to developing products consumers want. Failure is the rule, not the exception.



Entrepreneurs following this method test their hypotheses by engaging with potential customers, purchasers, and partners to gauge their reactions about product features, pricing, distribution, and customer acquisition. With the information, entrepreneurs make small adjustments called iterations to products, and large adjustments called pivots correct any major concerns. This testing phase might result in changing the target customer or modifying the product to better serve the current target customer.



The lean startup method first identifies a problem that needs to be solved. It then develops a minimum viable product or the smallest form of the product that allows entrepreneurs to introduce it to potential customers for feedback. This method is faster and less expensive than developing the final product for testing and reduces the risk that startups face by decreasing their typical high failure rate. Lean startup redefines a startup as an organization that is searching for a scalable business model, not one that has an existing business plan that it is determined to execute.


   Example of Lean Startup  

For example, a healthy meal delivery service that is targeting busy, single 20-somethings in urban areas might learn that it has a better market in 30-something affluent mothers of newborns in the suburbs. The company might then change its delivery schedule and the types of foods it serves to provide optimal nutrition for new mothers. It might also add on options for meals for spouses or partners and other children in the household.



The lean startup method is not to be used exclusively by startups. Companies such as General Electric, Qualcomm, and Intuit have all used the lean startup method; GE used the method to develop a new battery for use by cell phone companies in developing countries where electricity is unreliable.





Key Takeaways

Lean startup is the process of developing a product or company based on the expressed desires of the market.The lean startup uses validated learning, which is a process by which companies assess consumer interest. Lean startup methods focus heavily on customer-related information such as customer churn rate, lifetime customer value, and product popularity. In lean startup practices, experimentation is favored more than adherence to a rigid plan. Lean startup standards will involve the release of a small form or early concept products in order to assess the customer reaction to the product.
What Is a Learning Curve?  

A learning curve is a mathematical concept that graphically depicts how a process is improved over time due to learning and increased proficiency. The learning curve theory is that tasks will require less time and resources the more they are performed because of proficiencies gained as the process is learned. The learning curve was first described by psychologist Hermann Ebbinghaus in 1885 and is used as a way to measure production efficiency and to forecast costs.



A learning curve is typically described with a percentage that identifies the rate of improvement. In the visual representation of a learning curve, a steeper slope indicates initial learning that translates into higher cost savings, and subsequent learnings result in increasingly slower, more difficult cost savings.





Key Takeaways

The learning curve is a visual representation of how long it takes to acquire new skills or knowledge.In business, the slope of the learning curve represents the rate in which learning new skills translates into cost savings for a company.A learning curve is usually described with a percentage that identifies the rate of improvement.The steeper the slope of the learning curve, the higher the cost savings per unit of output.


   Understanding a Learning Curve  

The learning curve also is referred to as the experience curve, the cost curve, the efficiency curve, or the productivity curve. This is because the learning curve provides cost-benefit measurements and insight into all the above aspects of a company.



The idea behind this is that any employee, regardless of position, takes time to learn how to carry out a specific task or duty. The amount of time needed to produce the associated output is high. Then, as the task is repeated, the employee learns how to complete it quickly, and that reduces the amount of time needed for a unit of output.



That is why the learning curve is downward sloping in the beginning with a flat slope toward the end, with the cost per unit depicted on the Y-axis and total output on the X-axis. As learning increases, it decreases the cost per unit of output initially before flattening out, as it becomes harder to increase the efficiencies gained through learning.



Learning curves are often associated with percentages that identify the rate of improvement. For example, a 90% learning curve means that for every time the cumulative quantity is doubled, there is a 10% efficiency gained in the cumulative average production time per unit. The percentage states the percentage of time that will carry over to future iterations of the task when production is doubled.


   Learning Curve Formula  

The learning curve has a formula to identify a target cumulative average time per unit or batch. The formula for the learning curve is:



















Y


=


a



X


b


















where:
















Y


=


Cumulative average time per unit or batch
















a


=


Time taken to produce initial quantity
















X


=


The cumulative units of production or the

















 cumulative number of batches
















b


=


The slope or learning curve index, calculated

















as the log of the learning curve percentage

















divided by the log of 2







\begin{aligned}&{\bf Y = aX^b}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\textbf{Y} = \text{Cumulative average time per unit or batch}\\&\textbf{a} = \text{Time taken to produce initial quantity}\\&\textbf{X} = \text{The cumulative units of production or the}\\&\qquad\ \text{cumulative number of batches}\\&\textbf{b} = \text{The slope or learning curve index, calculated}\\&\qquad\text{as the log of the learning curve percentage}\\&\qquad\text{divided by the log of 2}\end{aligned}


​Y=aXbwhere:Y=Cumulative average time per unit or batcha=Time taken to produce initial quantityX=The cumulative units of production or the cumulative number of batchesb=The slope or learning curve index, calculatedas the log of the learning curve percentagedivided by the log of 2​


   Learning Curve Calculation  

Let's use an 80% learning curve as an example. This means that every time we double the cumulative quantity, the process becomes 20% more efficient. In addition, the first task we complete took 1,000 hours.











Y








=


1000


×



1




log


.


80




log


2



















=


1000


×


1
















=


an average of 1,000 hours per task

















 


to complete one task







\begin{aligned}Y &= 1000\times1^{\frac{\text{log}\, .80}{\text{log}\, 2}} \\&= 1000\times 1\\& = \text{an average of 1,000 hours per task}\\&\quad\ \,\text{to complete one task}\end{aligned}


Y​=1000×1log2log.80​=1000×1=an average of 1,000 hours per task to complete one task​



Now let's double our manufacturing output. The initial time spent on the first task will stay 1,000 hours. However, our value for X will now change from one to two:











Y








=


1000


×



2




log


.


80




log


2



















=


1000


×


.


8
















=


an average of 800 hours per task

















to complete two tasks







\begin{aligned}Y&= 1000\times2 ^{\frac{\text{log}\, .80}{\text{log}\, 2}}\\&= 1000\times .8\\& = \text{an average of 800 hours per task}\\&\quad\,\,\,\text{to complete two tasks}\end{aligned}


Y​=1000×2log2log.80​=1000×.8=an average of 800 hours per taskto complete two tasks​



This means that the total cumulative amount of time needed to perform the task twice was 1,600. Since we know the total amount of time taken for one task was 1,000 hours, we can infer that the incremental time to perform the second task was only 600 hours. This diminishing average theoretically continues as you advance along the learning curve. For example, the next doubling of tasks will occur at four tasks completed:











Y








=


1000


×



4




log


.


8




log


2



















=


1000


×


.


64
















=


an average of 640 hours per task

















to complete four tasks







\begin{aligned}Y &= 1000 \times 4^{\frac{\text{log}\, .8}{\text{log}\, 2}}\\& = 1000 \times .64\\& = \text{an average of 640 hours per task}\\&\quad\,\,\,\text{to complete four tasks}\end{aligned}


Y​=1000×4log2log.8​=1000×.64=an average of 640 hours per taskto complete four tasks​In this final example, it took a total of 2,560 hours to produce 4 tasks. Knowing it took 1,600 hours to produce the first two tasks, the learning curve indicates it will only take a total of 960 hours to produce the third and fourth task.






In theory, the third and fourth task in the example above would have taken different amounts of time due to the fourth task being theoretically more efficient than the third task. However, the time taken for each of these two units is often shown as the average (i.e. 960 hours / two units = 480 hours for each of the third and fourth unit).


   Learning Curve Table  

The learning curve can become complicated when trying to distinguish between the cumulative quantity, the cumulative production time, the cumulative average production time, and the incremental production time. Therefore, it is common to see a learning curve table that summarizes and neatly organizes each value. This type of information is very useful in cost accounting. The example above would have table as follows:











Learning Curve Table




Cumulative Quantity
Cumulative Production Time
Cumulative Average Time Per Unit
Incremental Time


1
1,000 hours
1,000 hours
1,000 hours


2 
1,600 hours
800 hours
600 hours


4 
2,560 hours
640 hours
960 hours



80% Learning Curve Table, Assuming First Task Takes 1,000 Hours



Note that the cumulative quantity must double between rows—to continue the table, the next row must be calculated using a quantity of eight. In addition, note that the incremental time is a cumulation of more and more units as the table is extended. For example, the 600 hours of incremental time for task No. 2 is the time it took to yield one additional task. However, the 960 hours in the next row is the time it took to yield two additional tasks.


   Learning Curve Graphs  

Because learning curve data easily creates trend lines, it's fairly common to see learning curve data depicted graphically. There are several data points to choose from, one of which is the total cumulative time needed to produce a given number of tasks or units. In the graph below, the learning curve shows that more time is needed to generate more tasks.















Learning Curve, Cumulative Production Time.



However, the graph above fails to demonstrate how the process is becoming more efficient. Because of the graph's upward slowing curve, it appears it takes incrementally more time to perform more tasks. However, due to the nature of the learning curve, the x-axis is doubling and incrementally taking less time per unit. For example, consider the graph below that demonstrates the approximate average time needed to perform a given number of tasks.















Learning Curve, Average Time per Task.


   Shapes/Types of Learning Curves  

Learning curves can be depicted visually in different ways. They can be represented in a chart, with linear coordinates, like the charts above in which the shape is an actual curve. A learning curve can also be depicted between axis points in a chart as a straight line or a band of points.



Lower learning curve percentages mean higher degrees of improvement. As a result, the lower the learning curve percentages, the steeper the slope of graphs.


   Benefits of Using the Learning Curve  

Companies know how much an employee earns per hour and can derive the cost of producing a single unit of output based on the number of hours needed. A well-placed employee who is set up for success should decrease the company's costs per unit of output over time. Businesses can use the learning curve to inform production planning, cost forecasting, and logistics schedules.



The slope of the learning curve represents the rate in which learning translates into cost savings for a company. The steeper the slope, the higher the cost savings per unit of output. This standard learning curve is known as the 80% learning curve. It shows that for every doubling of a company's output, the cost of the new output is 80% of the prior output. As output increases, it becomes harder and harder to double a company's previous output, depicted using the slope of the curve, which means cost savings slow over time.


   Learning Curve Example  

The learning curve has many applications within the realm of business. It can help assess the true cost of undertaking a project.



For example, the learning curve can play a fundamental part in understanding production costs and cost per unit. Consider a new hire who is placed on a manufacturing line. As the employee becomes more proficient at their job, they will be able to manufacture more goods in a smaller amount of time (all else being equal). In this example, a 90% learning curve would mean there is a 10% improvement every time the number of repetitions doubles. In the long run, a company can use this information to plan financial forecasts, price goods, and anticipate whether it will meet customer demand.




Why Is a Learning Curve Important?
A learning curve is important because it can be used as a planning tool to understand when operational efficiencies may occur. The learning curve identifies how quickly a task can be performed over time as the performer of that task gains proficiency. This is useful for a company to know when allocating employee's time, dedicating training for new procedures, or allocating costs across new products.




What Does a High Learning Curve Mean?
A high or steep learning curve indicates that it takes a substantial amount of resources to perform an initial task. However, it also signifies that subsequent performance of the same task will take less time due to the task being relatively easier to learn. A high learning curve indicates to a business that something might require intensive training, but that an employee will quickly become more proficient over time.




How Is a Learning Curve Measured and Calculated?
A learning curve is measured and calculated by determining the amount of time it will take to perform a task. Then, a learning curve assigns an improvement value to identify the rate of efficiency the task performer will incur as they learn and become more proficient at the task.The formal calculation to identify the cumulate time is Y = aX^b, where Y is the total amount of time taken, a is the time to produce the first task, X is the total number of tasks performed, and b is the slope of the learning curve.




What Does a 90% Learning Curve Mean?
When a learning curve has a given percentage, this indicates the rate at which learning and improvement occur. Most often, the percentage given is the amount of time it will take to perform double the amount of repetitions. In the example of a 90% learning curve, this means there is a corresponding 10% improvement every time the number of repetitions doubles.


   The Bottom Line  

Most people usually get better at doing something the more they do it. The time and resources spent to do something the first time is probably higher than the time and resources spent on performing the same task for the 100th time. This idea of continual improvement is measured through the learning curve. The learning curve graphically or mathematically depicts how time spent on completing tasks often decreases over time as proficiency is gained.
Investopedia / Julie Bang


   What Is a Lease?  

A lease is a contract outlining the terms under which one party agrees to rent an asset—in this case, property—owned by another party. It guarantees the lessee, also known as the tenant, use of the property and guarantees the lessor (the property owner or landlord) regular payments for a specified period in exchange. Both the lessee and the lessor face consequences if they fail to uphold the terms of the contract. A lease is a form of incorporeal right.





Key Takeaways

A lease is a legal, binding contract outlining the terms under which one party agrees to rent property owned by another party.It guarantees the tenant or lessee use of the property and guarantees the property owner or landlord regular payments for a specified period in exchange. Residential leases tend to be the same for all tenants, but there are several different types of commercial leases.Consequences for breaking leases range from mild to damaging, depending on the circumstances under which they are broken.Certain protected groups are able to vacate their leases without any consequences, for which some form of proof is usually required. 


   Understanding a Lease  

Leases are legal and binding contracts that set forth the terms of rental agreements in real estate and real and personal property. These contracts stipulate the duties of each party to effect and maintain the agreement and are enforceable by each. For example, a residential property lease includes:



The property address
Landlord and tenant responsibilities
The rent amount
A required security deposit
Rent due date
Consequences for breach of contract
The duration of the lease
Pet policies
Other essential information



Not all leases are designed the same, but all of them have some common features. These include the rent amount, the due date of rent, the expiration date of the lease. The landlord requires the tenant to sign the lease, thereby agreeing to its terms before occupying the property. 



Most residential leases are standard with the same terms for all tenants. Leases for commercial properties, on the other hand, are usually negotiated in accordance with the specific lessee and typically run from one to 10 years, with larger tenants often having longer, complex lease agreements.






The landlord and tenant should retain a copy of the lease for their records. This is especially helpful if and when any disputes arise.


   Special Considerations  

Consequences for breaking leases range from mild to damaging, depending on the circumstances under which they are broken. A tenant who breaks a lease without prior negotiation with the landlord faces a civil lawsuit, a derogatory mark on their credit report, or both. As a result of breaking a lease, a tenant may encounter problems renting a new residence, as well as other issues associated with having negative entries on a credit report.



Tenants who need to break their leases must often negotiate with their landlords or seek legal counsel. In some cases, giving a certain amount of notice or forfeiting the security deposit allows tenants to break their leases with no further consequences.



Some leases have early termination clauses that allow tenants to terminate the contracts under a specific set of conditions (job-related relocation, divorce-induced hardship) or when their landlords do not fulfill their contractual obligations. For example, a tenant may be able to terminate a lease if the landlord does not make timely repairs to the property.



The terms of a lease cannot violate state or federal law. So a clause that allows a landlord to enter the premises at any time without notice or one that, via court action, grants a landlord to recover more than statutory limits allow is not enforceable.






Discrimination during the rental process is illegal. If you think you’ve been discriminated against in the course of your search or application, based on your race, religion, sex, marital status, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take—such as filing a complaint with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.


  Protected Groups  

Certain groups of people have more leeway in ending leases early. Chief among these are members of the military. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, they can break their leases if they receive active-duty orders, requiring them to relocate for more than 90 days.



Many states allow domestic violence victims to break leases without negative consequences. The abuse must have been fairly recent (normally within the last year) and the tenant usually should show some form of proof, such as a court order of protection or a police report documenting the violence.



Some states also allow renters, especially older adults, to terminate a lease early due to disability, health conditions, or medical crises that make living in the current home untenable. Usually required is a letter from a local doctor, hospital, or other medical professional attesting to the health condition.



Even people in these protected groups must give landlords at least 30 days' notice, in writing, of their desire to break the lease.


  Lease-Breaking in the COVID-19 Era  

Coronavirus-induced shutdowns and financial hardships have caused many renters to wonder if they can get out of their leases without being penalized because of the pandemic. The short answer is no. Despite federal and eviction moratoriums, the pandemic does not relieve a tenant from their contractual obligations. Even in the era of COVID-19, if you end a lease early, you’re still responsible for your rent until the end date in your contract.



That said, there might be extenuating circumstances and exceptions. On Aug. 3, 2021, the Biden administration imposed a Center for Disease Control-recommended 60-day moratorium on evictions for failure to make rent or housing payments in areas experiencing high incidences of the Delta variant of the virus. However, on Aug. 26, 2021, the Supreme Court vacated the CDC order, effectively ending the eviction moratorium.



On Sept. 24, 2021, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) announced that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would continue to offer COVID-19 forbearance to multifamily property owners. So if your landlord has a Fannie- or Freddie-backed mortgage, an FHA loan, or a VA loan, they must agree not to evict tenants solely for the nonpayment of rent, and allow flexibility in back payments.



Having lost the threat of evictions, landlords in these situations may be more lenient in letting a renter break a lease.






If you want to break your lease because of financial problems, there are rental assistance programs in place. The federal Emergency Rental Assistance program, for example, has thus far allocated just $3 billion of its $47 billion budget. You can learn about eligibility and finding a local assistance program or a counselor through consumerfinance.gov, the website of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).


   Types of Leases  

Beyond residential leases, tenants who lease commercial properties have a variety of lease types available, all of which are structured to assign more responsibility on the tenant and provide greater up-front profit for the landlord.



Some commercial leases require the tenant to pay rent plus the landlord's operational costs, while others require tenants to pay rent plus property taxes and insurance. The four most common types of commercial real estate leases include:



Single-Net Leases: In this kind of lease, the tenant is responsible for paying property taxes.
Double-Net Leases: These leases make a tenant responsible for property taxes and insurance.
Triple-Net Leases: Tenants who sign these leases pay property taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs.
Gross Leases: Tenants pay rent while the landlord is responsible for other costs. 




How Do Leases Work?
Leases are generally legally-binding contracts between two parties: the lessor and the lessee. They involve a piece of property rented out by the owner (the lessor) to the lessee or the tenant. Leases can be verbal agreements but are normally drawn up in writing. Both parties agree to the terms of the lease, including the rental amount, length of time for the contract, as well as any consequences that may result if either party doesn't uphold the terms and conditions of the contract.




What Benefits Do Leases Provide for Landlords and Tenants?
Signing a lease provides both landlords and tenants with clear terms and conditions outlining the relationship and the rental agreement. Doing so also establishes the rights and responsibilities of each party involved. For instance, leases provide both parties with structure, in that they establish the cost associated with renting and the length of time under which the lease is exercisable. This provides both parties with stability. A lease also gives both parties a clear understanding of what happens when either party breaks or goes against any of the terms laid out within the lease contract.




Can You Break a Lease?
Either party can break a lease. But doing so isn't advisable as there may be consequences involved. Tenants may be responsible to pay the landlord early release charges and/or the remaining balance to pay off the lease. In some cases, breaking a lease may even hurt a tenant's credit score. Landlords may have to provide tenants with alternate living spaces while others may face civil or legal challenges if they break their leases without cause. Regardless of whether you're a tenant or landlord, it's always a good idea to talk to the other party involved to avoid any negative consequences and end the lease amicably. Certain protected groups, such as active military members or victims of domestic violence, may break their leases without any consequences as long as they are able to provide some proof.
What Is a Lease Extension?  

A lease extension refers to a legal agreement that extends the term of an existing lease or rental agreement. Extensions are not a requirement in a business relationship but are often granted just before an original agreement is set to expire. They are common in relationships between landlords and tenants of commercial and residential property, or between parties who lease vehicles, machinery, plants, and equipment.





Key Takeaways

A lease extension refers to a legal agreement that extends the term of an existing lease or rental agreement.The lease extension should name the parties involved, the dates on which the extension begins and ends, and should reference the earlier agreement being extended.Lease extensions are common in landlord-tenant relationships, or for the use of vehicles, equipment, machinery, and/or plants.


   How Lease Extensions Work  

A lease is a contract that requires the lessee, or the user, to pay the lessor, or owner, for the use of an asset for a specified period of time. Leases are common for rental properties or for the use of equipment, vehicles, or machinery and plants. When the asset being rented is tangible property, it may also be referred to as a rental agreement.



When a lease expires, both the lessor and the lessee have a few options available. The lessee can vacate or give up access to the property, or the two parties can agree to a lease renewal. This option may require some renegotiation of the terms of the new lease. The final option is to extend the lease. The terms of the original lease are normally still in force, but the time-frame for an extension tends to be shorter. So in the case of a residential rental property, the landlord may keep some of the original lease terms like the rental amount due, but extend the period of tenancy for the lessee.



The lease extension is a formal document that must include certain details. It should name all the parties involved in the agreement, as well as the dates on which the extension begins and ends. The extension document should also reference the earlier agreement being extended. Some lease extensions—especially in real estate—are granted automatically. They may specify a certain length of time for the extension or may allow for the use of the property on a month-to-month basis.


   Special Considerations   

Lease extensions are an important part of the lessor-lessee relationship as they reduce the risk involved for each party. For example, a landlord who agrees to a lease extension can keep the original lease terms intact including any provisions about notices to vacate. This means the tenant has to provide prior written notice before vacating the property. The landlord can rest assured there are no surprises, and won't have to risk an empty unit. Similarly, a lease extension can give tenants some stability. With a proper extension in place, tenants won't have to give up their units after the lease expires.






Although not a requirement, lease extensions reduce the risk involved for both the lessor and the lessee.



Businesses enter lease agreements and agree to lease extension agreements for a variety of reasons. The primary reason for leasing an asset rather than buying it is risk management. A business may decide to lease a parcel of land so that it is protected from the risk of fluctuations in land prices. This allows the business to focus on its core competency rather than real estate.



Another reason for leasing is to simplify disposal. A construction company, for instance, may decide to lease a piece of heavy equipment, rather than buy it, so that it does not have to deal with selling the equipment after it is no longer needed. A lessee may pay more per hour in order to use the equipment, but this can be worthwhile if it saves time and the cost of selling the equipment at a later date.


   Examples of Lease Extensions  

A lease extension may be executed between a landlord and a tenant. In this case, if both parties choose to continue the tenancy, the landlord may issue a lease extension when the original lease is set to expire.



Lease extensions may also be granted to lessees by car dealerships. Let's assume a consumer leases a car for four years. After that period, the lessee may decide to buy or begin another lease for a brand new car. The dealership may grant an extension of the original lease if the new replacement vehicle is not yet available.
What Is a Lease Option?  

A lease option is an agreement that gives a renter a choice to purchase the rented property during or at the end of the rental period. It also precludes the owner from offering the property for sale to anyone else. When the term expires, the renter must either exercise the option or forfeit it. A lease option is also known as a lease with the option to purchase.





Key Takeaways

A lease option is an agreement that gives a renter a choice to purchase the rented property during or at the end of the rental period.A lease option also precludes the owner from offering the property for sale to anyone else.A renter usually pays some percentage above the standard monthly rental amount, which goes to the downpayment for buying the home.Leasing options may last for any period of time, but they commonly expire after two to three years.Depending on the contract, the buyer-tenant may be responsible for maintenance and repairs that are normally the landlord's responsibility.


   How a Lease Option Works  

A lease option gives a potential buyer more flexibility than a standard lease-purchase agreement, which requires the renter to buy the home when the lease ends. The price of the home is agreed to upfront by the buyer (the renter) and the owner. The price is typically at the current market value of the home, allowing the renter to buy the home in the future at today's price.



For that option, the renter is usually charged an upfront fee by the owner, which might be 1% of the home's sale price. The fee goes to the downpayment if the renter decides to buy the home at the end of the lease. The lease option is especially helpful to those who might be building their credit or don't have enough saved for a downpayment. However, there are several features of lease options to consider.


   Requirements for a Lease Option  

Leasing options come with a tradeoff for property owners, since they may lose the chance to sell the property for a higher price. In exchange, tenants pay more to rent with a leasing option than they would pay otherwise.


  Rental Payments  

The owner charges a premium in addition to the standard monthly rent for the option to buy at today's price when the lease ends. The premium might be a percentage added to the current rent, such as a 10% surcharge of the standard monthly rent for a home of that size.



The premium, which is often called rent credit, becomes part of the downpayment for the home if the option is exercised to buy the home by the renter. However, the renter forfeits the extra money paid above the standard rent if the home is not purchased at the end of the lease.



Some owners might take a one-time cash payment, often called "valuable consideration," which is similar to the premium paid for an option in the financial markets. This is not a deposit on the purchase of the property, meaning it's not refundable. The amount ranges from a token fee to 5% of the expected purchase price.


  Bank Financing With a Lease Option  

The good news for renters is that typically, banks will allow the total funds of the premium above the rental payments to go to the downpayment for purchasing the home. However, if the rent charged was an at-market rate, the bank may not allow any of the funds to be applied to the purchase price. It's important that buyers check with multiple banks to determine their policies regarding financing a mortgage for a home with a lease option.


  The Term of a Lease Option  

The term of the option may be any period on which the property owner and renter agree, but is commonly one to three years. The lease option contract also stipulates the property's purchase price at the start of the lease or how that price will be determined at the end of the option. More specifics on the lease option terms is in the following section.


   Lease Option Terms  

There are a number of lease option characteristics or terms starting with the actual lease term. This defines the period during which the tenant will occupy the property. The purchase option price is also a critical component of the lease agreement, determining the price at which the tenant can buy the property if they choose to exercise their option. In some cases, an exact dollar may not be given but instead a method of calculating the value (i.e. the Official Kelley Blue Book value at the date of lease termination).



The option fee, also known as option consideration, is a non-refundable upfront payment made by the tenant to the landlord to secure the right to purchase the property during the lease term. Rent credits, if applicable, are additional financial incentives in some lease option agreements that may sometimes be used to offset fees or the purchase price.



Lease options often have an exercise period which defines the specific timeframe within which the tenant must notify the landlord of their intent to exercise the purchase option. It is crucial for the tenant to adhere to this timeframe to avoid losing the right to buy the property.



Lease options usually have default and termination clauses. Default and termination provisions should outline what happens if either party fails to meet their obligations. Some lease option agreements may include an option for the tenant to extend the lease term or exercise period if they need more time to decide on exercising the purchase option. In some cases, this extension may cost a fee.



Last, the lease option may require an appraisal and inspection. This is to determine the property's current value and condition at the time of exercising the purchase option. In many ways, this protects the buyer from not overpaying for a less-than-valuable good.


   Industries With Lease Options  

This article will primarily focus on real estate; however, there are a variety of industries that often bake in lease options into contract agreements. These industries may include but may not be limited to:



Real Estate: In real estate, lease options enable prospective homebuyers to rent a house with the opportunity to buy it later. This is the primary context of this article.
Automobiles: Lease options are frequently employed for cars in the automotive sector. Customers have the choice to lease an automobile for a predetermined time, often two to three years, with the option to purchase the car at the conclusion of the lease term for a predetermined cost.
Equipment Leasing: Companies frequently rely on expensive equipment to run smoothly in a variety of industries, including manufacturing, construction, and healthcare. They can rent the equipment for a certain time period so they can evaluate its performance and suitability for their purposes by using equipment lease choices. After the equipment has a diminished useful life (but still holds value), the company may have the option to buy the equipment.
Technology: Software licenses, computer hardware, and other types of technological equipment can all be leased via technology lease alternatives. In some cases, these services may then be permanently downloaded or owned in perpetuity (often because they may have been superseded by newer versions).
Agriculture: Leasing farms is one use of lease options in the agriculture industry. Farmers who might lack the funds to buy land might lease it with the possibility of buying it later if they produce profitable crops.
Aviation: When leasing aircraft, airlines or private parties may employ lease alternatives. It gives them more financial freedom by allowing them to use airplanes for a certain amount of time without having to pay the entire purchase price which may later be an option.






Consider making a proposal for the right to buy at other assets you lease not included on this list. After a good has been used, the owner may recognize that it's useful life has diminished and, if you're satisfied with the product, you may end up guiding a easy sale.


   Reasons to Use a Lease Option  

There are several reasons why the renter and the owner might enter into a lease option. It's important to consider whether the benefits outweigh any drawbacks for entering into the agreement.


  Why Renters Enter Into a Lease Option  

A potential buyer may have many reasons to use a lease option rather than buy the property outright at the start. A major consideration is not having enough money or credit to make the purchase. Renting can allow the potential buyer to save money for the purchase and at the same time, build their credit by making regular, on-time payments.



The renter has a chance to buy a property in the future at today's prices. If the renter doesn't have the money saved today to buy the home but is worried the home's value will increase in the next few years, the lease option is a good choice. Also, if the renter loves the home, the school district, or the neighborhood, the lease option takes the home off the market—allowing the renter to save enough to buy it when the lease ends.



Even if the potential buyer has the means to purchase the property, they may not want to commit to it right away. For example, if the potential buyer is from another place, they might want to live in the new town before committing to the purchase. Or, they may still have their old property to sell before being able to buy the new property.



Finally, the property may not qualify for certain loans, including a VA loan, due to needed repairs or upgrades. By renting first, the potential buyer can make those improvements in order to qualify for the loan later.


  Why Owners Enter Into a Lease Option  

A property owner may enter into a lease option agreement because they had trouble selling the house outright. The option can make the property more attractive to different types of potential buyers.



Also, if a homeowner is thinking of selling the home in a few years, the lease option allows the owner to collect a premium above the current market for rent. The worst-case scenario is that the renter doesn't buy the house; the owner places it on the market to sell and keeps the extra funds paid above the standard monthly rent.



There may also be tax issues involved in selling the property outright now instead of selling it later. The option, while not a guarantee to sell later, does make it more likely that the owner has a buyer ready to go at the end of the option.






The renter forfeits the extra money paid above the standard monthly rent if the option to buy the home is not exercised at the end of the lease.


   Lease Option vs. Right of First Offer  

In many ways, the phrase lease option (or lease to own) is similar to a right of first offer. A right of first offer (ROFO) is simply a contractual provision that grants a specific party the first opportunity to purchase a property.



If the property owner decides to sell the property, they must first present the terms of the sale to the party holding the ROFO. This gives the holder the chance to accept or decline the offer.



If they decline or fail to respond within a specified timeframe, the property owner can then proceed to offer the property to other interested parties. However, should the negotiated price of the property materially vary from the price that was originally offered to the original tenant, there may a clause that requires the seller to reapproach the original tenant with the same package.


   Lease Option vs. Right of First Refusal  

A lease option is slightly different from a right of first refusal (ROFR). A ROFR is a contract that gives a specific party, usually a tenant or lessee, the right to match the terms of any offer made by a third party to purchase the property before the property owner can proceed with the sale.



For example, consider Party A owns a property and receipts an offer from Party B. The tenant, Party C, has the opportunity to match the terms offered by Party B and, if Party A agrees to sell the party, they must approach Party C first.



Though this feels similar to a lease option, there are substantial differences between the two. In a lease option, a tenant may be presented an upfront opportunity to buy a property; should they decline, they may not be approached with the opportunity again. With a ROFR, it is more on the seller to decide whether or not to pursue a sale; only at that time is the tenant looped into a potential deal. Instead of the clause being enacted based on the passage of time, a ROFR is triggered by the decision to sell.


   Special Considerations  

Renter's insurance is typically required for the renter's personal belongings. Renter's insurance protects for any loss in value of belongings and furnishings in the home. Also, it's important that it be mandated that the owner also have homeowner's insurance in the event something happens during the lease term that could adversely affect the property's value such as a fire or water damage.



An appraisal contingency should be included in the lease option agreement. In other words, when the lease ends, the home's value could have decreased. An appraisal provides an updated value of the property before the purchase and sale go through.



It's important to calculate the exact amount of money that's to be paid to the owner at the end of the lease option. Remember, the owner is taking the house off the market and forgoing any gains in the home's market value by entering into the lease option. The owner will want to be adequately compensated for not being able to sell the house to another person who was ready to buy it.



For those considering a lease option or a lease option to buy, they should ideally have a lawyer who is familiar with lease-option transactions to review the fine print to make sure there aren't any surprises when the lease term ends.





Lease-to-Own vs. Lease-Purchase

A lease option should not be confused with a Lease Purchase option. In a lease-purchase option, the buyer is required to buy the home at the end of the rental period.


   Example of a Lease to Own Option  

Suppose that a landlord wishes to sell their home, valued at $500,000. The house has a long-term tenant, who is currently saving to buy their own home. Both parties could try their luck on the housing market, but it would likely take several months for the landlord to find a suitable buyer and the tenant to find a suitable seller. Moreover, selling the house would require the property owner to vacate the tenants, thereby losing a source of monthly income.



Instead, the landlord could offer their tenant a leasing option, providing an easier transition for both parties. In a typical lease option, the prospective buyer-tenant would pay an additional 3-5% of the house price ($15,000-$25,000) as an option fee, as well as an additional premium to their monthly rent. In exchange, they would have the option to buy the house in two years, at today's price. The monthly premiums would contribute to the downpayment.



This arrangement works out to the advantage of both parties, although there is a tradeoff. The buyer-renter can lock in a favorable price on the home, but if they do not exercise the purchase option, they will have paid more money than they would have paid for an ordinary rental. In addition, they may also be responsible for maintenance costs that are normally the landlord's responsibility. The seller-landlord makes more money initially, but they lose the chance to take a higher offer.




How Does a Lease Option Work for a Car?
A rent-to-own car, or lease-to-own car, uses a similar loan agreement to a lease option. The renter-buyer pays an upfront downpayment, as well as weekly payments. However, there's no purchase option—at the end of the rental period, the buyer owns the car outright. This arrangement ultimately costs less than a subprime loan and does not require a credit check; however, it's much more expensive than buying a car with good credit.




How Do You Find Lease to Own Homes?
According to Homelight, one way to find a Lease-to-Own home is to look for agents or brokerages with a lease-to-own program. It is also possible to contact sellers directly—many property owners may want to sell their property, without the trouble of going through a realtor. Finally, it is also possible to find lease-to-own arrangements from the foreclosure market. A lease-to-own arrangement on a house in pre-foreclosure would provide the owners with a steady income stream and a path to selling the house.




How Do You Write a Lease to Own Contract?
There are many sample lease-to-own contracts and templates available online. However, due to the size of the financial commitment, it would be wise to have a lawyer review your lease-to-own contract.




Does a Lease to Own Help Build Your Credit?
Lease-to-own agreements are typically not reported to credit bureaus, according to Experian, making them unlikely to appear on your credit report. However, you can always ask your landlord to report your rent payments, thereby helping to raise your credit score. Of course, that cuts both ways—a missed or late payment could end up reducing your credit.


   The Bottom Line  

Leasing options are a popular way for homeowners to secure a potential buyer without having to put the property on the market. After paying an upfront fee, the tenant gains the right to buy the home at the end of their tenancy, often for a preferential price. This arrangement gives additional flexibility to prospective homebuyers, allowing them to build their savings and credit as they prepare to buy a home.
What Are Lease Payments?  

A lease payment is the equivalent of the monthly rent, that is formally dictated under a contract between two parties, granting one participant the legal right to use the other individual's real estate holdings, manufacturing equipment, computers, software, or other fixed assets, for a specified amount of time. A lease provides the lessee with limited right-to-use without transferring ownership in return for payment to the lessor.



The length of time in which lease payments will be made can range from a month-to-month timetable, as is traditionally the case with software-as-a-service (SaaS) business models, or it may contrarily extend through extremely long lengths of time, such as 100 years or more, which is often the case in land-lease scenarios.





Key Takeaways

Lease payments are regular, often monthly, fees paid for the right to use a property, asset, or piece of equipment.Individuals may enter into lease agreements for land, cars, computer equipment, software, or other fixed assets.The terms and payment schedule for a leased item or property are often set out in a legal contract.Time tables for lease agreements may be short. as in month-to-month arrangements, or long, as is frequently the case within land-lease scenarios, which may have contracts lasting a century or more.


   Understanding Lease Payments  

Lease payments can be made by individuals as well as companies. Individuals traditionally use leases to finance cars, but they may also use them to obtain the use of computer equipment, tracts of land, and other physical assets. A lease payment amount is determined by a variety of different considerations, such as an asset's value, local residual values in a given neighborhood, discount rates, and a lessee's credit score.



A company's lease payments are used in the calculation of the fixed-charge coverage ratio, which helps investors determine if a company is able to cover its fixed expenses, such as leases and interest. The fixed charge coverage ratio is essentially an amplified version of the times interest earned ratio, or the times interest coverage ratio. It's highly adaptable for practical usage, with nearly all fixed costs, since these fixed costs are so similar to lease payments.


   Common Types of Leases  

The most common types of lease agreements are as follows:



Operating leases
Financial leases (also called capital leases)
Sale-and-leaseback arrangements
Combination leases (those which marry two or more of the aforementioned models)



The most significant characteristic of an operating lease is that it allows for both financing and maintenance, in which lease payments include an element for financing charges as well as maintenance components. Operating leases require lessors to regularly service the leased equipment in question. For example, it is not uncommon for aircraft owners to lease out their jet engines.



In many cases, the owners don't possess the technical knowledge required to maintain the parts for themselves, because the components are highly specialized. In such cases, it behooves owners to include maintenance charges directly with lease payments.



Financial leases differ from operating leases in that they do not embed maintenance fees in the lease payments. Newer leases types, which often offer more customized service levels and lease payment structures, include synthetic leases, and leases tied to mileage, hours, or usage levels. For example, General Electric often leases expensive locomotive components with lease payments that are tied to mileage. In theory, a lessee is only paying for what they need.






For consumers looking to lease an automobile (instead of purchasing one), beware of fact that some dealers impose mileage minimums in order to protect the resale value of the vehicle.
What Is a Lease Rate?  

A lease rate is the amount of money paid over a specified time period for the rental of an asset, such as real property or an automobile. The lease rate—the amount the lessor earns from allowing someone else to use their property—compensates them for not being able to use that property during the term of the lease.





Key Takeaways

A lease rate is an amount paid by the lessee to the lessor for use of an asset for a set period of time.Lease rates are generally expressed as dollars per month, but they can also be stated as dollars per square foot of space per year—as is the case with commercial real estate.The terms of the lease will spell out the time period that the lease rate applies for and may also spell out incremental increases in the lease rate over multi-year leases.


   How a Lease Rate Works  

The meaning of lease rate depends on the context in which it is being used—namely what type of property is being leased.



In commercial real estate, the lease rate is the cost to occupy the space, commonly stated as a dollar amount per square foot of space per year. The lease rate can also be stated in terms of dollars per month—as with a rental agreement—or even dollars per year.



The terms of the lease will spell out the time period that the lease rate applies for—it may also spell out incremental increases in the lease rate over multi-year leases.



To get a true idea of the cost of renting a space (in addition to the lease rate), the potential tenant will need to know if the lease is single, double, or triple net. A single net lease is a commercial real estate lease agreement in which the tenant agrees to pay property taxes in addition to rent.



A double net lease is a rental agreement whereby the tenant agrees to cover the costs of two of the three primary property expenses: taxes, utilities, or insurance premiums. Also known as a net-net (NN) lease, these are most commonly found among commercial tenants.



Finally, a triple net lease (triple-Net or NNN) is a lease agreement on a property whereby the tenant or lessee promises to pay all the expenses of the property, including real estate taxes, building insurance, and maintenance. 



Because most commercial lease rates are set out in dollars per square foot, it makes it easier for the potential lessee (tenant) to compare the leasing costs of properties with different size profiles.


   Special Considerations  

The question of when to lease equipment or space—rather than building or buying—is one that businesses struggle with. Generally speaking, the key factor is how long the leased property is expected to be in use. For shorter-term surges in equipment demand or operational expansion (pushed by temporary market conditions), leasing is an excellent solution that minimizes sunk costs.



If the increased demand is expected to be long-term, then the up-front costs of ownership usually dwindle in comparison with the savings over time and the potential for appreciation in a commercial property.



That said, some companies prefer to lease over the long term anyway, as it relieves the company from having to worry about non-core business issues like equipment and building maintenance.


   Types of Lease Rates  
  Auto Leases  

When it comes to cars and equipment, the leasing company essentially buys the car from the dealer and rents it to you. So the lessor has “lent” the money for the purchase upfront and you are paying back on that loan.



Although the dealer and the leasing party can be the same person, setting up the three-party agreement allows the dealership to sell inventory to the leasing arm and the leasing arm to generate income on these pseudo loans before moving the vehicle back into the dealership as used inventory. The lessee gets a car that they can use without the burden of ownership.



In the case of an automobile lease, the monthly payment on the vehicle is based on the car's expected depreciation and residual value—a predetermined amount that the car will be worth at the end of the lease term—as well as the lease rate, which is usually stated as a percentage. Through monthly payments, the lessee compensates the automobile dealer for both the vehicle's depreciation and for tying up assets in vehicles instead of investing that money elsewhere.



In this case, the lease rate is roughly equivalent to an interest rate. The lease payments include the lease rate factor, also called the money factor, that captures the financing element of car leases.


  Space Leases  

In the case of commercial property, the building has been constructed as an investment with the hopes of bringing in tenants. There are only two entities in this transaction, and any compensation for the initial investment in the building is baked into the lease rate as part of the overall business plan.
What Is a Leaseback?  

A leaseback is an arrangement in which the company that sells an asset can lease back that same asset from the purchaser. With a leaseback—also called a sale-leaseback—the details of the arrangement, such as the lease payments and lease duration, are made immediately after the sale of the asset. In a sale-leaseback transaction, the seller of the asset becomes the lessee and the purchaser becomes the lessor.






A sale-leaseback enables a company to sell an asset to raise capital, then lets the company lease that asset back from the purchaser. In this way, a company can get both the cash and the asset it needs to operate its business.


   Understanding Leasebacks  

In sale-leaseback agreements, an asset that is previously owned by the seller is sold to someone else and then leased back to the first owner for a long duration. In this way, a business owner can continue to use a vital asset but ceases to own it.



Another way of thinking of a leaseback is like a corporate version of a pawnshop transaction. A company goes to the pawnshop with a valuable asset and exchanges it for a fresh infusion of cash. The difference would be that there is no expectation that the company would buy back the asset.


   Who Uses Leasebacks and Why?  

The most common users of sale-leasebacks are builders or companies with high-cost fixed assets—like property, land, or large expensive equipment. As such, leasebacks are common in the building and transportation industries, and the real estate and aerospace sectors.



Companies use leasebacks when they need to utilize the cash they invested in an asset for other purposes but they still need the asset itself to operate their business. Sale-leasebacks can be attractive as alternative methods of raising capital. When a company needs to raise cash, it typically takes out a loan (incurring debt) or effects an equity financing (issuing stock).



A loan must be repaid and shows up on the company's balance sheet as a debt. A leaseback transaction can actually help improve a company's balance sheet health: The liability on the balance sheet will go down (by avoiding more debt), and current assets will show an increase (in the form of cash and the lease agreement). Although equity does not need to be paid back, shareholders have a claim on a company's earnings based on their portion of its stock.






A sale-leaseback is neither debt nor equity financing. It is more like a hybrid debt product. With a leaseback, a company does not increase its debt load but rather gains access to needed capital through the sale of assets.


   Example of a Leaseback  

There are numerous examples of sale-leasebacks in corporate finance. However, a classic easy-to-understand example lies in the safe deposit vaults that commercial banks give us to store our valuables. At the outset, a bank owns all of the physical vaults in its basements. The bank sells the vaults to a leasing company at market price, which is substantially higher than the book value. Subsequently, the leasing company will offer back these vaults to the same banks to rent on a long-term basis. The banks, in turn, sub-lease these vaults to us, its customers.


   More Benefits of Leasebacks  

Sale-leaseback transactions may be structured in various ways that can benefit both the seller/lessee and the buyer/lessor. However, all parties must consider the business and tax implications, as well as the risks involved in this type of arrangement.


  Potential Benefits to Seller/Lessee...  

Can provide additional tax deductions
Enables a company to expand its business
Can help to improve the balance sheet
Limits volatility risks of owning the asset


  Potential Benefits to Buyer/Lessor...  

Guaranteed lease
A fair return on investment (ROI)
Stable income stream for a specified time





Key Takeaways

In a sale-leaseback, an asset that is previously owned by the seller is sold to someone else and then leased back to the first owner for a long duration.In this way, a business owner can continue to use a vital asset but doesn't own it.The most common users of sale-leasebacks are builders or companies with high-cost fixed assets.
What Is a Leasehold?  

A leasehold is an accounting term for an asset being leased. The asset is typically property such as a building or space in a building. The lessee contracts with the lessor for the right to use the property in exchange for a series of scheduled payments over the term of the lease. Renting space in an office building for a company's use or renting a building to be used for a retail store are two examples of a commercial leasehold arrangement.





Key Takeaways

A leasehold is an accounting term that refers to an asset or property that a lessee (tenant) contracts to rent from a lessor (property owner) for an agreed-upon time in exchange for scheduled payments.Owners of retail stores often use leasehold arrangements for their businesses rather than constructing their own buildings.The leasehold contract for commercial properties can be complex agreements that stipulate such things as the payment structure, breach of contract clauses, and leasehold improvement clauses.The contract will stipulate which party is responsible for making leasehold improvements, which might include such things as building walls and partitions, adding lighting fixtures, or constructing shelves.The IRS does not allow leasehold improvements to be deducted. However, the improvements are subject to depreciation.


   Understanding Leaseholds  

A leasehold contract will stipulate the terms of the agreement between the lessee (tenant) and the lessor (property owner or landlord). The contracts for commercial properties—such as space in an office building—are generally complex agreements that stipulate landlord responsibilities, tenant responsibilities, security deposits, breach of contract clauses, and leasehold improvement clauses. Larger tenants may be able to request more favorable terms in exchange for leasing more space for a longer time. Leases for commercial properties typically run from one to 10 years.


   Types of Leaseholds  

There are different types of leaseholds, including tenancy for years, periodic tenancy, tenancy at sufferance, and tenancy at will.﻿﻿


  Tenancy for Years  

A tenancy for years is a type of contract in which the details are spelled out, including the duration of time a renter will reside in the property and the payment that is expected. The contract could last for days or years, but is characterized by a specific starting and ending date.﻿﻿


  Periodic Tenancy  

With a periodic tenancy, the renter's time in the property is contracted for a non-specified period of time, with no agreed-upon expiration date. The terms of the rental were initially specified for a certain period of time, but the end date continues until the owner or renter gives a notice to terminate. For example, a yearly contract might end, but then evolve into a month-to-month contract, in which only one month's notice is needed to terminate.﻿﻿


  Tenancy at Sufferance  

A tenancy at sufferance is when the renter's tenant has expired, but the renter refuses to vacate the property, and is therefore staying without the owner's consent. Typically, this results in the owner instigating eviction proceedings. However, if the landlord accepts a rent payment after the lease has expired, the property is considered to be leased again on a month-to-month basis.﻿﻿


  Tenancy at Will  

A tenancy-at-will is a type of leasehold that can be terminated at any time by either the owner/landlord or the tenant. The arrangement does not include the signing of a contract or lease and generally does not specify the length of time a tenant will use the rental or any specifics about payment. The agreement is governed under state law, with varying terms based on the state. Federal law is applicable in cases of discrimination.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


   Leasehold Improvements  

After a lease agreement has been finalized, the lessee, or tenant, begins to build out the space for its purposes to the extent allowed by the contract. Work on walls, ceilings, floor space, lighting fixtures, additional plumbing fixtures, shelving, and cabinets represent leasehold improvements that are recorded as fixed assets on a company's balance sheet.



Depending on the contract, leasehold improvements might be paid for by the tenant, the landlord, or a combination of both. Some landlords may agree to pay for leasehold improvements in order to entice a new tenant to sign a lease. However, when demand is high for a building or office space, the landlord may not be willing to incur the additional expense for leasehold improvements. Leasehold improvements that are permanently affixed to the building often remain the property of the landlord even after the lease ends.






Leasehold improvements are made to the interior of a building; modifications made to the exterior of a building are not considered leasehold improvements.


   Example of a Leasehold  

Leaseholds are most common for brick-and-mortar retailers. Best Buy Co., Inc. is an example. The company leases a majority of its buildings and makes leasehold improvements that suit its standardized interior functional and aesthetic design. Most of the company's leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses, as well as contingent rents based on specified percentages of revenue, which is a common clause in lease agreements for retailers.



Rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis to the end of the initial lease term, and any difference between straight-line expense amounts and rent payable is booked as deferred rent. For some retailers, leasehold improvements are a significant portion of gross property and equipment expenses.


   Leasehold Interest  

A leasehold interest is a contract in which an individual or entity, or in real estate terms, a lessee, leases a parcel of land from an owner or lessor for a set period of time. The lessee has the exclusive rights to possess and use as an asset or property for the specified period of time. There are four types of leasehold interests, as mentioned above: tenancy for years, periodic tenancy, tenancy at sufferance, and tenancy-at-will.



Leasehold interest most often refers to a ground lease and tends to therefore last for multiple years. For example, an individual might lease a lot from an owner for 40 years and choose to build a property on the grounds. That individual could then rent out the property and earn rental income, but still has to pay the owner for the right to use the lot.






A leasehold interest differs from a freehold interest, or fee simple interest, in which an individual or entity has total ownership over the land or property and can use it in whatever way they see fit.


   Leasehold FAQs   
  What Is a Leasehold Estate?  

A leasehold estate is an agreement that a tenant can use an owner's property for a set period of time. The estates are often backed up by contracts or lease agreements that lay out the duration of the rental, the terms and conditions of use, the payment required, and the landlord's obligations to the tenant.


  How Do You Depreciate Leasehold Improvements?  

The IRS does not allow leasehold improvements to be deducted. However, since improvements are part of the building, they are subject to depreciation. Leasehold improvement depreciation should follow a 15-year schedule that has to be re-evaluated each year based on its useful economic life.


  Which Type of Leasehold Has a Definite Beginning and Ending Date?  

A tenancy for years, in which the contract is specified, including a clear beginning and ending date.


   The Bottom Line  

A leasehold is an asset being leased, such as a building or unit in a building. A renter makes a contract with the owner or landlord to use the property in question, in exchange for a series of payments over the duration of the lease. A commercial leasehold involves renting space for the purpose of operating a store, doctor's office or other business, and a residential leasehold is for a property to be occupied for personal use.
What Is a Leasehold Improvement?  

The term leasehold improvement refers to any changes made to customize a rental property to satisfy the particular needs of a specific tenant. These changes and alterations may include painting, installing partitions, changing the flooring, or putting in customized light fixtures. Improvements may be undertaken by the landlord or the tenant and may be paid by the tenant.



While the useful economic life of most leasehold improvements is anywhere between five and 10 years, the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) requires that depreciation for such improvements to occur over the economic life of the building.





Key Takeaways

A leasehold improvement is a change made to a rental property to customize it for the particular needs of a tenant.Landlords may agree with these improvements for existing or new tenants.Leasehold improvements may be done by the landlord or tenant.Painting, installing partitions or customized light fixtures, and changing flooring are all leasehold improvements.Enlargements to buildings, elevators and escalators, roofs, fire protection, alarm and security systems, and HVAC systems do not qualify as leasehold improvements.


   How Leasehold Improvements Work  

Leasehold improvements are commonly referred to as tenant improvements or build-outs. These changes are generally made by landlords of commercial properties and may be provided for an existing or new tenant.



Any changes made are tailored to the specific needs of a tenant and make the space more attractive and appealing to them.



Once the lease ends, the improvements generally belong to the landlord, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. If the tenant is able to take them, they must remove them without any damage to the property.


  What Is Considered a Leasehold Improvement  

There are certain criteria that must be met in order for changes to qualify as leasehold improvements. Changes must be made to the interior to accommodate the specific needs of the tenant, including any of the following:



Structural modificationsNew drywall and flooringUpdates to lighting, electrical, technology systemsAddition of rooms, cubicles, partitionsShelving and countertops



Not all changes are considered leasehold improvements. Modifications made for one tenant don't qualify for other tenants, including their neighbors. Exterior building renovations, such as landscaping, parking lot repairs, or roofing don't qualify either. Even interior alterations like upgrades made to a building's elevator or HVAC systems aren't considered leasehold improvements. That's because they don't benefit a specific tenant.






Leasehold improvements are considered qualified improvement property for tax purposes, along with building improvements, qualified restaurant property, and qualified retail improvements under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017.


   Types of Leasehold Improvements  
  Tenant Improvement Allowance  

This type of leasehold improvement gives the tenant authority to oversee the project, taking the burden off the landlord especially if the process is time-consuming. The landlord normally puts provisions in place in the lease that covers the budget of the tenant allowance improvement. This is usually listed as a lump sum or on a pe-square-foot basis. Landlords may either pay the renovation/construction company directly or reimburse the tenant directly. If project budgets are exceeded, the tenant covers the balance.


  Rent Discount  

The landlord may offer the tenant rent discounts for leasehold improvements. If this option is included in the lease, the tenant may get rent relief of some type, such as one free month or reduced rent for certain periods per year. This allows the tenant to save on space alterations. Just like with the TIA, the tenant oversees the project and controls the lease improvements. The tenant is also responsible if costs exceed the budget.


  Building Standard Allowance  

This option is also called a build-out. In this case, the landlord presents an improvement package or other options to the tenant. The landlord is typically the one who manages the project, allowing the tenant more time to devote to their business. In most cases, tenants may not end up with the modifications they actually want to help their business grow. If they do choose to add on to the changes, they must cover the additional cost.


  Turn Key  

This type of leasehold improvement is normally undertaken at the beginning of the lease. In most cases, cost estimates and plans are submitted by the tenant while the landlord is the one who supervises and pays for all of the work.


   Leasehold Improvements Rules  

In December 2015, the U.S. Congress passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act, which modified and extended many tax provisions related to depreciation, including leasehold improvements. The bill made permanent a tax-savings provision that allowed for 15-year straight-line cost recovery on qualified leasehold improvements. Under those guidelines:



Landlords and tenants were not allowed to be relatedImprovements only qualified if they were made to the interior of the building with only that tenant occupying the spaceLeasehold improvements were required to be completed after three years of the building first being occupied for service



The passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017 changed the way landlords and tenants can claim deductions involving leasehold improvements. The new law modified some of the requirements. Improvements must still be made to the interior of the building, which means enlargements to buildings, elevators and escalators, roofs, fire protection, alarm, and security systems, and HVAC systems still don't qualify.



The qualified improvement property no longer requires both parties (landlords and tenants) to be unrelated. It also eliminated the three-year requirement, stating that all improvements may be made "after the date when the property was first placed in service," according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act made some tweaks to qualified improvement property (QIP) when it was passed in 2020. The act put a 15-year recovery period for QIP and allowed filers to claim first-year depreciation for any QIP.






Most lenders won't allow repayment terms beyond the life of the lease if financing is required to pay for any leasehold improvements.


   Accounting for Leasehold Improvements  

The IRS does not allow deductions for improvements. But because improvements are considered part of the building, they are prone to depreciation. The IRS allows for depreciation deductions, as long as these conditions are satisfied. Whoever does the work is allowed to take the depreciation deduction, whether that's the landlord or the tenant. The new tax act increased the maximum amount allowed to $1 million from $500,000.



Accounting experts suggest expensing any improvements made that amount to less than the company's capitalization limit during the same period. If they exceed this amount, the total should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the lease or over the shorter period of the life of the improvements.


   Leasehold Improvement vs. Building Improvement  

While they may effectively be building improvements, leasehold improvements are distinctly different. That's because they only really make an impact on the space for a specific tenant. Building improvements, on the other hand, benefit everyone in the property and generally change the overall structure of the building itself.



Examples of building improvements include putting up a new roof, paving a driveway and/or parking lot, adding a parking lot, renovating the lobby, adding a new or repairing an existing elevator, and updating the HVAC system. As such, building improvements help extend the overall life of the structure.


   Examples of a Leasehold Improvement  

Landlords may pay for leasehold improvements to encourage tenants to rent spaces for longer periods of time, especially in the retail industry. For example, a business owner leases a building for their disc golf shop. The landlord may choose to add four walls to the leased area to create built-in displays and storage areas for the discs. These alterations are considered leasehold improvements.



Let's take another example from the retail sector. The owner of Store A decides to lease space through Company B. The store only has four walls and no other amenities. Through the lease negotiation, Company B—the landlord—agrees to install shelving, a service counter for cash registers, and a display unit with special lighting before Store A opens its doors.




What Are Examples of Leasehold Improvements?
There are many examples of leasehold improvements. A leasehold improvement is anything that benefits one specific tenant, usually in a commercial property. This includes painting, adding new walls, putting up display shelves, changing flooring and lighting, and the addition of offices, walls, and partitions.




Who Pays for Leasehold Improvements?
Landlords budget and pay for improvements by offering a tenant improvement allowance or through rent discounts. They may also pay by offering the tenant a package of modifications from which they can choose. The tenant is normally responsible for any additional costs that go over the budget.




Are Leasehold Improvements Tax Deductible?
You can't deduct leasehold improvements. But the IRS does allow building owners to account for their depreciation because any improvements made are considered to be part of the building.


   The Bottom Line  

Leasehold improvements are requirements of landlords or property owners to ready, maintain, or fix rental units and make sure they are up to code. These can include painting, repairs, updates, and replacements of fixtures and appliances. Owners cannot deduct these outlays from their taxes directly because they are considered to be capital improvements, but the IRS does afford them depreciation expense over time.
What Is the Least Squares Criterion?  

The least squares criterion is a formula used to measure the accuracy of a straight line in depicting the data that was used to generate it. That is, the formula determines the line of best fit.



This mathematical formula is used to predict the behavior of the dependent variables. The approach is also called the least squares regression line.


   Understanding the Least Squares Criterion  

The least squares criterion is determined by minimizing the sum of squares created by a mathematical function. A square is determined by squaring the distance between a data point and the regression line or mean value of the data set.



A least squares analysis begins with a set of data points plotted on a graph. Independent variables are plotted on the horizontal x-axis while dependent variables are plotted on the vertical y-axis. The analyst uses the least squares formula to determine the most accurate straight line that will explain the relationship between an independent variable and a dependent variable.


  Common Uses of Least Squares  

Advances in computing power in addition to new financial engineering techniques have increased the use of least square methods and extended its basic principles.





Key Takeaways

The least squares criterion method is used throughout finance, economics, and investing.It is used to estimate the accuracy of a line in depicting the data that was used to create it.Least squares results can be used to summarize data and make predictions about related but unobserved values from the same group or system.



Least squares and related statistical methods have become commonplace throughout finance, economics, and investing, even if its beneficiaries aren't always aware of their use.



For example, the robo-advisors now used by many investing platforms employ Monte Carlo simulation techniques to manage portfolios, though this is accomplished behind the scenes and out of the sight of the account holders who use them.



Other applications include time-series analysis of return distributions, economic forecasting and policy strategy, and advanced option modeling.


  What Does Least Squares Tell You?  

Instead of trying to solve an equation exactly, mathematicians use the least squares method to arrive at a close approximation. This is referred to as a maximum-likelihood estimate.



The least squares approach limits the distance between a function and the data points that the function explains. It is used in regression analysis, often in nonlinear regression modeling in which a curve is fit into a set of data.






Mathematicians use the least squares method to arrive at a maximum-likelihood estimate.



The least squares approach is a popular method for determining regression equations, and it tells you about the relationship between response variables and predictor variables.



Modeling methods that are often used when fitting a function to a curve include the straight-line method, the polynomial method, the logarithmic method, and the Gaussian method.



Linear or ordinary least squares is the simplest and most commonly used linear regression estimator for analyzing observational and experimental data. It finds a straight line of best fit through a set of given data points.
What Is the Least Squares Method?  

The least squares method is a form of mathematical regression analysis used to determine the line of best fit for a set of data, providing a visual demonstration of the relationship between the data points. Each point of data represents the relationship between a known independent variable and an unknown dependent variable. This method is commonly used by statisticians and traders who want to identify trading opportunities and trends.





Key Takeaways

The least squares method is a statistical procedure to find the best fit for a set of data points.The method works by minimizing the sum of the offsets or residuals of points from the plotted curve.Least squares regression is used to predict the behavior of dependent variables.The least squares method provides the overall rationale for the placement of the line of best fit among the data points being studied.Traders and analysts can use the least squares method to identify trading opportunities and economic or financial trends.


   Understanding the Least Squares Method  

The least squares method is a form of regression analysis that provides the overall rationale for the placement of the line of best fit among the data points being studied. It begins with a set of data points using two variables, which are plotted on a graph along the x- and y-axis. Traders and analysts can use this as a tool to pinpoint bullish and bearish trends in the market along with potential trading opportunities.



The most common application of this method is sometimes referred to as linear or ordinary. It aims to create a straight line that minimizes the sum of squares of the errors generated by the results of the associated equations, such as the squared residuals resulting from differences in the observed value and the value anticipated based on that model.



For instance, an analyst may use the least squares method to generate a line of best fit that explains the potential relationship between independent and dependent variables. The line of best fit determined from the least squares method has an equation that highlights the relationship between the data points.



If the data shows a lean relationship between two variables, it results in a least-squares regression line. This minimizes the vertical distance from the data points to the regression line. The term least squares is used because it is the smallest sum of squares of errors, which is also called the variance. A non-linear least-squares problem, on the other hand, has no closed solution and is generally solved by iteration.






Dependent variables are illustrated on the vertical y-axis, while independent variables are illustrated on the horizontal x-axis in regression analysis. These designations form the equation for the line of best fit, which is determined from the least squares method.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Least Squares Method  

The best way to find the line of best fit is by using the least squares method. But traders and analysts may come across some issues, as this isn't always a fool-proof way to do so. Some of the pros and cons of using this method are listed below.


  Advantages  

One of the main benefits of using this method is that it is easy to apply and understand. That's because it only uses two variables (one that is shown along the x-axis and the other on the y-axis) while highlighting the best relationship between them.



Investors and analysts can use the least square method by analyzing past performance and making predictions about future trends in the economy and stock markets. As such, it can be used as a decision-making tool.


  Disadvantages  

The primary disadvantage of the least square method lies in the data used. It can only highlight the relationship between two variables. As such, it doesn't take any others into account. And if there are any outliers, the results become skewed.



Another problem with this method is that the data must be evenly distributed. If this isn't the case, the results may not be reliable.





Pros

Easy to apply and understand
Highlights relationship between two variables
Can be used to make predictions about future performance



Cons

Only highlights relationship between two variables
Doesn't account for outliers
May be skewed if data isn't evenly distributed









Equations from the line of best fit may be determined by computer software models, which include a summary of outputs for analysis, where the coefficients and summary outputs explain the dependence of the variables being tested.


   Example of the Least Squares Method  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how the least square method works. Let's assume that an analyst wishes to test the relationship between a company’s stock returns, and the returns of the index for which the stock is a component. In this example, the analyst seeks to test the dependence of the stock returns on the index returns.



To achieve this, all of the returns are plotted on a chart. The index returns are then designated as the independent variable, and the stock returns are the dependent variable. The line of best fit provides the analyst with coefficients explaining the level of dependence.




What Is the Least Squares Method?
The least squares method is a mathematical technique that allows the analyst to determine the best way of fitting a curve on top of a chart of data points. It is widely used to make scatter plots easier to interpret and is associated with regression analysis. These days, the least squares method can be used as part of most statistical software programs.




How Is the Least Squares Method Used in Finance?
The least squares method is used in a wide variety of fields, including finance and investing. For financial analysts, the method can help to quantify the relationship between two or more variables, such as a stock’s share price and its earnings per share (EPS). By performing this type of analysis investors often try to predict the future behavior of stock prices or other factors.




What Is an Example of the Least Squares Method?
Consider the case of an investor considering whether to invest in a gold mining company. The investor might wish to know how sensitive the company’s stock price is to changes in the market price of gold. To study this, the investor could use the least squares method to trace the relationship between those two variables over time onto a scatter plot. This analysis could help the investor predict the degree to which the stock’s price would likely rise or fall for any given increase or decrease in the price of gold.




Who First Discovered the Least Squares Method?
Although the inventor of the least squares method is up for debate, the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss claims to have invented the theory in 1795.


   The Bottom Line  

Traders and analysts have a number of tools available to help make predictions about the future performance of the markets and economy. The least squares method is a form of regression analysis that is used by many technical analysts to identify trading opportunities and market trends. It uses two variables that are plotted on a graph to show how they're related. Although it may be easy to apply and understand, it only relies on two variables so it doesn't account for any outliers. That's why it's best used in conjunction with other analytical tools to get more reliable results.
What Is the Least-Preferred Coworker Scale?  

Developed by American scholar Fred Fiedler, the scale identifies whether an individual's leadership style is either relationship-oriented or task-oriented.



The Least Preferred Coworker (LPC) Scale requires a person to rate the one individual they would least want to work with—the least-preferred co-worker—using a range of 18 to 25 opposing (positive or negative) adjectives, with ratings from 1 to 8. The LPC score is then computed by totaling all the ratings. A high LPC score indicates that the individual is a relationship-oriented leader, while a low LPC score suggests a task-oriented leader.





Key Takeaways

The Least-Preferred Coworker Scale (LPC) is a management heuristic that assigns an individual's leadership style as either task-oriented or relationship-oriented.The scale utilizes a subjective evaluation of an individual's attitudes toward their least favorable co-worker.By seeing how one responds to evaluating the one person they'd least prefer to work with, overall management style can be inferred.The leadership-member relationship is a barometer of how much influence and trust exists between the team and its leader.The model presented by the scale presents the notion that no single leadership style is perfect or ideal, as the needs change depending on circumstances and context.


   How the Least-Preferred Coworker Scale Works  

A typical set of opposing adjectives used in the LPC scale would include pleasant or unpleasant, friendly or unfriendly, supportive or hostile, and so on. The responses are graded from 1 for the least favorable attribute (for example, unpleasant or unfriendly), to 8 for the most favorable one (pleasant or friendly).



The LPC scale assumes that people whose leadership style is relationship-oriented tend to describe their least preferred co-workers in a more positive manner, while those whose style is task-oriented rate them more negatively.


   Applying the LPC Scale  

The scale is based on the notion that no single leadership style is perfect or ideal, as an organization's needs change depending on circumstances and context. For instance, a team made up of veteran workers well-versed in their tasks may be served best by a relationship-oriented style of leadership. The team doesn't require heavy-handed approaches like strict guidelines that a less experienced team might need.



Similarly, a veteran team may at times need task-oriented leadership. Such instances might include if a deadline is looming, or if the goals include sensitive milestones that will be difficult to achieve. If the team is made up of both veteran professionals and untrained staff, the situational needs of the objective could mean leadership styles may change based on the moment or the individuals who need guidance.


   Special Considerations  

Situational favorableness also plays a role in the leadership style adopted. The leadership-member relationship is a barometer of how much influence and trust exists between the team and its leader. If this bond is weak, the leader can be said to hold a weak position in this regard. This can be swayed by the leader’s position of power in the organization.



The amount of power and authority a leader has to direct the team who works for them might be described as strong, meaning they have clear control to see their mandates are followed. If that power is weak, they have less control over the team to ensure the action that is taken.
What Is a Ledger Balance?  

A ledger balance is computed by a bank at the end of each business day and includes all withdrawals and deposits to calculate the total amount of money in a bank account. The ledger balance is the opening balance in the bank account the next morning and remains the same all day.



The ledger balance is also often referred to as the current balance and is different than the available balance in an account. If you log into your online banking, you may see your current balance—the balance at the beginning of the day—and the available balance, which is the aggregate amount at any point during the day.



In banking and accounting, the ledger balance is used in the reconciliation of book balances.





Key Takeaways

A ledger balance is calculated at the end of each business day by a bank and includes all debits and credits.It is the opening balance in the bank account the next morning and remains the same all day.The ledger balance differs from the customer's available balance, which is the aggregate funds accessible for withdrawal at any one point.


   How a Ledger Balance Works  

The ledger balance is updated at the end of the business day after all transactions are approved and processed. Banks calculate this balance after posting all transactions, such as deposits, interest income, wire transfers that go both in or out, cleared checks, cleared credit card or debit transactions, and any correction of errors. It represents the existing balance on an account at the onset of the next business day.



Processing delays related to pending deposits can occur because the bank must first receive funds from the financial institution of the person or business who issued the check, wire transfer, or another form of payment. Once the money has been transferred, the money is made accessible to the account holder.



The bank statement only provides the ledger balance to a particular date. Deposits made and checks written on or after this date do not appear on the statement. The ledger balance may be used to determine whether the requirement to maintain a specific minimum balance is being satisfied. It is also included in bank account receipts. The ledger balance differs from the available balance of the bank account.


   How to Calculate a Ledger Balance  

You can calculate your ledger balance by taking the opening balance and subtract debits and add any credits/deposits.



Debits may include any transaction made throughout the day, such as bank card transactions. Credits include deposits, such as payroll, as well as payments from customers or refunds.



After adding the credits and subtracting the debits from your opening balance, you’ll have your current ledger balance. 


   Ledger vs. Available Balance  

The ledger balance differs from the customer's available balance, which is the aggregate funds accessible for withdrawal at any one point. Because the ledger balance remains the same throughout the day, it does not include real-time transaction updates. The available balance changes frequently throughout the day as transactions hit the bank account. Neither balance includes outstanding checks just written from the account, but the available balance updates for recent automated teller machine (ATM) withdrawals, deposits, and other transactions as the information is received by the bank.



Understanding the difference between ledger balance and available balance is a vital aspect of proper financial planning. After viewing the ledger balance, if a check is written or a transaction is made, an account holder may withdraw more money than available. This may lead to bank overdraft charges as well as fees from the other party's bank or business. Monitoring balances on a regular basis alerts a customer of any unauthorized transactions that occurred or potential errors committed by the bank.





Available Balance

Real-time balance
Changes throughout the day
Money immediately available



Ledger Balance

Opening balance at the start of the day
Balance without pending transactions
Doesn’t change as frequently





   Importance of Ledger Balances  

Remember, the ledger balance is the balance at the beginning of the day, not the end balance. The end balance is usually calculated at the end of the day—the same as the available balance.



When you log into your mobile or online banking, you may not see the most updated information. Some banks display both the current and available balances, so consumers can tell how much they have to use at their disposal.



Similarly, don't rely on bank statements either. As noted above, balances displayed on statements are taken from a ledger balance on the statement date. Keep in mind, if you've conducted any transaction after the statement date—deposits, withdrawals, written checks, or anything else—they will affect your available balance.



In order to ensure you're working with the most updated balance at all times, it's always important to keep your records up to date. You may consider keeping your own ledger, with a running total of your balance after considering any and all transactions through your account.


   Example of a Ledger Balance  

Say the opening balance for Monday morning is $1,000. You have a payroll deposits of $500 and $150 charges on your bank card. Regardless of the transactions throughout the day, the ledger balance will remain the same. 



That is, the deposit and the bank card charge hasn’t officially cleared. However, the available balance will be updated to reflect these changes. 




Can I Spend My Ledger Balance?
You can only spend your available balance and not your ledger balance. If the ledger balance is greater than the available balance, you can only spend up to the available balance.




What Is Ledger Balance and Available Balance?
Ledger balance is the amount of money in your account that might not account for transactions made during the day, such as charges or deposits. The available balance is the ledger balance less transactions made during the day.




How Long Does It Take for a Ledger Balance to Clear?
The ledger balance is often updated to reflect the available balance within a day. It generally takes less than 24 hours for the ledger balance to become available.


   The Bottom Line  

The ledger balance isn’t updated until the end of the business day. The available balance is the ledger balance with pending transactions added or subtracted. These pending transactions can include checks, wire transfers, deposits, and bank card charges.
What Is a Ledger Wallet?  

Ledger wallets are physical cryptocurrency wallets made by Ledger. The company offers users several hardware and cold wallet options, including the Stax hardware wallet. Ledger promises traders that its wallets are safe and secure for use with crypto assets. Headquartered in France, the company has operations in San Francisco. It was launched by eight experts with backgrounds in embedded security, cryptocurrencies, and entrepreneurship. The company's goal is to create secure solutions for blockchain applications.





Key Takeaways

Ledger wallets are hardware cryptocurrency wallets made by Ledger.The company's hardware wallets are multicurrency wallets that are used to store private keys for cryptocurrencies offline.Ledger offers three different types of wallets: the Ledger Nano S Plus, the Ledger Nano X, and the Ledger Stax.


   How Ledger Wallets Work  

Conducting transactions using cryptocurrencies requires the use of cryptographic private keys. But these keys, which are generally stored online, are susceptible to thefts and hacks. To address this, cryptocurrency users developed alternative storage systems. These include:



Hot wallets, which are online
Mobile wallets, which are wallets in smartphones
Paper wallets, which are stored on paper



Ledger offers hardware wallets. These are multicurrency wallets that store private keys offline in a secure hardware device. These wallets are device-based, which means they use storage mechanisms (like USB drives) to store private keys, thereby making it difficult for hackers to access them from an online location.



The company offers three different types of hardware wallets: the Ledger Nano S Plus, the Ledger Nano X, and the Ledger Stax. Ledger. Combined with the Ledger Live app, the owner of the wallet is the only authorized user. The private key is safe and secure in a certified secure chip. All transactions that are executed must be authorized by the user. The app allows users to trade their cryptocurrencies.



These storage wallets enable users to perform a wide variety of functions, including:



Sending and receiving Bitcoin from blockchains
Running third-party apps on the device like universal two-factor authentication (2FA) on sites like Google and Dropbox, using wallets.



All Ledger products combine a Secure Element and a proprietary operating system designed specifically to protect a user's cryptocurrency assets. They use a 24-word backup recovery phrase to access a user’s cryptocurrencies if the device is stolen. For the extra-cautious, the 24-word phrase can be etched into steel in a Billfodl, which holds seeds and keys forever in a physical form.






According to the company, the best way crypto investors can store their assets safely is through a hardware wallet. It is a type of cold wallet that is non-custodial, which means it is completely offline. As such, it doesn't "grant permissions to smart contracts," and only gives you (the holder) custody of the keys.


   Types of Ledger Wallets  

Ledger's first product was the Ledger Nano S, which it introduced in 2016. Since then, the company retired the device and now offers three new products: the Ledger Nano S Plus, the Ledger Nano X, and the Ledger Stax.


  Ledger Nano S Plus  

Ledger retired its original offering, the Ledger Nano S, and replaced it with the Ledger Nano S Plus in June 2022. The company refers to this new device as the "Nano S on steroids."



The Nano S Plus looks like a portable USB device that is USB-C enabled. It allows users to manage more than 5,500 digital assets with enough memory to install up to 100 apps. The company says it has access to more than 5,000 coins and supports non-fungible tokens (NFTs), too. This storage option works with macOS and Windows but is only compatible with Android devices.



The unit retails for $79 (USD). Taxes and duties are not included.


  Ledger Nano X  

Ledger introduced the Nano X in 2019. This is a USB-type device that, like every other Ledger device, keeps the owner's crypto coins and NFTs offline. It is Bluetooth-enabled and uses USB-C technology. This device works with macOS, Windows, iOS, and Android. It has the capacity for more than 5,500 different tokens and users can have up to 100 different apps.



The Ledger Nano X retails for $149 (USD), which does not include any taxes or additional fees.






You may be required to purchase additional items to use your devices, such as the On The Go kit to connect to a mobile device.


  Ledger Stax  

The Ledger Stax is a portable storage device designed by Ledger to store cryptocurrency assets. The device fits into the palm of your hand. Users can name their Stax and the lock screen can be customized just like a smartphone. Some of the features include;



Curved 3.7 inch E ink touchscreen (wider than the other devices)Bluetooth compatibleWireless chargingWorks with macOS, Windows, iOS, and Android



This device can support more than 5,000 coins and also supports NFTs. As with all Ledger devices, it comes with a Secure Element chip.



The unit retails for $279 (USD) excluding taxes and fees, which makes it the most expensive of the three. As of Aug. 24, 2023, the Ledger Stax was on backorder. The first Ledger Stax devices were shipped at the end of the second quarter of 2023.




How Safe Are Ledger Wallets?
Ledger promises users that its devices are safe and secure for use. In fact, the company claims that its devices have never been hacked. It credits its track record with "technical innovations, rigorous testing, and user awareness."There are many reviews that cite the safety and security of the company's devices because of the features, including the operating system, chip, and PIN protection they offer. However, just like any other type of hardware, they aren't completely impenetrable. Some users have been concerned about the possibility of a backdoor that may be compromised by hackers after Ledger added a recovery feature. The company responded by saying its devices remain safe even with the new feature.




What Are Private Keys?
Private keys are special codes used in the cryptocurrency market. They work just like passwords. Keys are usually alphanumeric, which means they are comprised of both letters and numbers. They are generated by a cryptocurrency wallet and are used to authorize cryptocurrency transactions.




What's the Difference Between a Hot and Cold Wallet?
Hot, cold, and paper wallets are used to hold and trade cryptocurrency information. Hot wallets are connected to the internet and are accessible through smartphones, mobile devices, laptops, and desktop computers. These wallets store information, including private keys, which are required to complete crypto transactionsCold wallets are hardware devices that are not internet-enabled. While they may be entirely offline, users need to conduct transactions through an exchange directly from their wallets.


   The Bottom Line  

Cryptocurrency traders have several options available to safely store and trade their investments. Known as wallets, they come in many shapes and sizes. Hardware wallets are now common in the industry. One of the leading names in this space is Ledger, a company that offers users three options that work offline. Ledger states that its devices are completely safe and secure, and have never been hacked. But it's up to you to decide whether any of these options are the right fit for you.
On November 11, 2022, FTX filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S., and its CEO Sam Bankman-Fried stepped down as CEO. FTX US Derivatives is one of the few FTX-related properties that were not a part of its bankruptcy proceedings. The company remains operational today.


   What Is FTX US Derivatives (Formerly LedgerX)?  

FTX US Derivatives (formerly LedgerX) is a digital currency futures and options exchange and clearinghouse. It was regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).



The exchange offers physical settlements of all contracts, block trading, and algorithmic trading opportunities for institutional investors. It also allows direct access for all traders.





Key Takeaways

FTX US Derivatives (formerly LedgerX) is a regulated platform for trading Bitcoin and Ether derivatives such as futures, options, and swaps.FTX US Derivatives (formerly LedgerX) acts as a clearinghouse for institutional investors who negotiate cryptocurrency block trades directly with one another.In November 2022, FTX filed for bankruptcy, but FTX US Derivatives is one of the few FTX-related properties that were not a part of its bankruptcy proceedings. 


   Understanding FTX US Derivatives (Formerly LedgerX)  

FTX US Derivatives (formerly LedgerX) was the first exchange to offer cryptocurrency contracts in the U.S. Contracts for bitcoin, called mini-contracts, sold in increments of 0.01 BTC; ether contracts are called deci-contracts and sold in increments of 0.10 ETH. These fractional contracts enabled investors to make granular trades and allow for scalability as the markets fluctuate.



FTX US Derivatives was registered with the CFTC as a Designated Contract Market, Derivatives Clearing Organization, and a Swap Execution Facility.



In October 2021, FTX US acquired LedgerX, which changed its name to FTX US Derivatives. FTX US Derivatives offers cryptocurrency futures, options, and swaps—all of which were physically delivered instead of cash-settled.



In November 2022, FTX went bankrupt and its founder Sam Bankman-Fried stepped down as CEO. FTX US Derivatives, however, was not a part of its bankruptcy proceedings.






The CFTC approved LedgerX (now FTX US Derivatives) for futures trading in September 2020.


  Futures Trading  

Like a regular futures contract, the company's cryptocurrency futures contracts allows investors to buy or sell at a predetermined price and time in the future. Contract sizes depend upon the cryptocurrency and move in $1 increments. FTX US Derivatives offers contracts for the current and following month and two quarterly settlements.


  Swaps  

The swap contracts from FTX US Derivatives offers investors an inexpensive way to buy or sell cryptocurrency. Swap contracts are priced at $0.05 eachAll futures and swap contracts are fully collateralized. A service for institutional investors allows for the direct negotiation of block trades, with FTX US Derivatives acting as the clearinghouse.




What Happend to FTX?
FTX filed for bankruptcy in November 2022 and its founder Sam Bankman-Fried stepped down as CEO. FTX US Derivatives, a FTX-related property, was not a part of the bankruptcy proceedings and remains operational today.




Who Was the CEO of FTX?
John J. Ray III, who led the restructuring of Enron, became CEO of FTX in November 2022,




Does Sam Bankman-Fried Face a Lawsuit?
In November 2022, FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, Tom Brady, and other celebrities were named in a class-action lawsuit on behalf of FTX token (FTT) purchasers.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own Bitcoin.



Correction—Feb. 8, 2023: This article has been corrected to reflect that FTX US Derivatives is one of the FTX-related properties that were not a part of its bankruptcy proceedings. The company remains operational today.
What Is a Leg?  

A leg is one piece of a multi-part trade, often a derivatives trading strategy, in which a trader combines multiple options or futures contracts, or—in rarer cases—combinations of both types of contract, to hedge a position, to benefit from arbitrage, or to profit from a spread widening or tightening. Within these strategies, each derivative contract or position in the underlying security is called a leg.



When entering into a multi-leg position, it is known as "legging-in" to the trade. Exiting such a position, meanwhile, is called "legging-out". Note that the cash flows exchanged in a swap contract may also be referred to as legs.





Key Takeaways

A leg refers to one part of a multi-step or multi-part trade, such as in a spread strategy.A trader will "leg-into" a strategy to hedge a position, benefit from arbitrage, or profit from a spread.Traders use multi-leg orders for complex trades where there is less confidence in the trend direction.


   Understanding a Leg  

A leg is one part or one side of a multi-step or multi-leg trade. These kinds of trades are just like a race of a long journey–they have multiple parts or legs. They are used in place of individual trades, especially when the trades require more complex strategies. A leg can include the simultaneous purchase and sale of a security.



For legs to work, it's important to consider timing. The legs should be exercised at the same time in order to avoid any risks associated with fluctuations in the price of the related security. In other words, a purchase and a sale should be made around the same time to avoid any price risk.



There are multiple types of legs, which are outlined below.


   Legging Options  

Options are derivative contracts that give traders the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying security for an agreed-upon price—also known as the strike price—on or before a certain expiration date. When making a purchase, a trader initiates a call option. When selling, it's a put option.



The simplest option strategies are single-legged and involve one contract. These come in four basic forms:












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



A fifth form, the cash-secured put, involves selling a put option and keeping the cash on hand to buy the underlying security if the option is exercised.



By combining these options with each other and/or with short or long positions in the underlying securities, traders can construct complex bets on future price movements, leverage their potential gains, limit their potential losses, and even make free money through arbitrage—the practice of capitalizing on rare market inefficiencies.


  Two-Leg Strategy: Long Straddle  

The long straddle is an example of an options strategy composed of two legs: a long call and a long put. This strategy is good for traders who know a security's price will change but aren't confident of which way it will move.



The investor breaks even if the price goes up by their net debit—the price they paid for the two contracts plus commission fees—or decreases by their net debit, profits if it moves further in either direction, or else loses money. This loss, though, is limited to the investor's net debit.



As the chart below shows, the combination of these two contracts yields a profit regardless of whether the underlying security's price rises or falls.


  Three-Leg Strategy: Collar  

The collar is a protective strategy used on a long stock position. It comprises three legs:



A long position in the underlying securityA long putA short call



This combination amounts to a bet that the underlying price will go up, but it's hedged by the long put, which limits the potential for loss. This combination alone is known as a protective put. By adding a short call, the investor has limited their potential profit. On the other hand, the money the investor receives from selling the call offsets the price of the put, and might even have exceeded it, therefore, lowering the net debit.



This strategy is usually used by traders who are slightly bullish and don't expect large increases in price.


  Four-Leg Strategy: Iron Condor  

The iron condor is a complex, limited risk strategy but its goal is simple: to make a bit of cash on a bet that the underlying price won't move very much. Ideally, the underlying price at expiration will be between the strike prices of the short put and the short call. Profits are capped at the net credit the investor receives after buying and selling the contracts, but the maximum loss is also limited.



Building this strategy requires four legs or steps. You buy a put, sell a put, buy a call and sell a call at the relative strike prices shown below. The expiration dates should be close to each other, if not identical, and the ideal scenario is that every contract will expire out of the money (OTM)—that is, worthless.


   Futures Legs  

Futures contracts can also be combined, with each contract constituting a leg of a larger strategy. These strategies include calendar spreads, where a trader sells a futures contract with one delivery date and buys a contract for the same commodity with a different delivery date. Buying a contract that expires relatively soon and shorting a later (or "deferred") contract is bullish, and vice-versa.



Other strategies attempt to profit from the spread between different commodity prices such as the crack spread—the difference between oil and its byproducts—or the spark spread—the difference between the price of natural gas and electricity from gas-fired plants.
What Is the Legal Lending Limit?  

The legal lending limit is the maximum dollar amount that a single bank can lend to a given borrower. This limit is expressed as a percentage of an institution’s capital and surplus. The limits are regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).





Key Takeaways

A legal lending limit is the most a bank or thrift can lend to a single borrower.The legal limit for national banks is 15% of the bank’s capital.If the loan is secured by readily marketable securities, the limit is raised by 10%, bringing the total to 25%. Some loans are not subject to loan limits, such as loans secured by U.S. obligations, bankers' acceptances, or certain types of commercial paper, among others. State-chartered banks may have their own lending limits, but they are often similar to the OCC standard. 


   How the Legal Lending Limit Works  

The legal lending limit for national banks was established under the United States Code (U.S.C.) and is overseen by the OCC. Details on national bank lending limits are reported in U.S.C. Title 12, Part 32.3.



The FDIC provides insurance for U.S. depositors. Both the FDIC and the OCC are involved in the national bank chartering process. Both entities also work to ensure that national banks follow established rules defined in the United States Code which details federal statutes.



The lending limit legal code applies to national banks and savings associations across the nation. The federal code on lending limits states that a national bank or savings association may not issue a loan to a single borrower for more than 15% of the institution’s capital and surplus.



This is the base standard and requires an institution to closely follow capital and surplus levels which are also regulated under federal law. Banks are allowed another 10% for collateralized loans. Thus, they can lend up to 25% of capital and surplus if a loan is secured by readily marketable securities.



State-chartered banks may have their own lending limits but are often similar to the OCC standard. For example, New York-chartered banks have a lending limit of 15% of their capital, surplus and undivided profits (CUPS), and 25% for loans secured by appropriate collateral.


   Special Considerations  

Some loans may be allowed special lending limits. Loans that may qualify for special lending limits include the following—loans secured by bills of lading or warehouse receipts, installment consumer paper, loans secured by livestock and project financing advances pertaining to a pre-qualifying lending commitment.



Additionally, some loans may not be subject to lending limits at all. These loans may include certain commercial paper or business paper discounted loans, bankers' acceptances, loans secured by U.S. obligations, loans affiliated with a federal agency, loans associated with a state or political subdivision, loans secured by segregated deposit accounts, loans to financial institutions with the approval of a specified Federal banking agency, loans to the Student Loan Marketing Association, loans to industrial development authorities, loans to leasing companies, credit from transactions financing certain government securities and intraday credit.



Banks are required to hold significant amounts of capital which typically causes lending limits to only apply to institutional borrowers. Generally, capital is divided into tiers based on liquidity. Tier 1 capital includes its most liquid capital such as statutory reserves. Tier 2 capital may include undisclosed reserves and general loss reserves. National banks are required to have a total capital to assets ratio of 8%.



Surplus may refer to a number of components at a bank. Categories included as surplus may include profits, loss reserves, and convertible debt.



Correction–April 3, 2022: This article has been edited to highlight the role of the OCC as a regulator, and the distinction between federal and state lending limits.
What Is a Legal Monopoly?  

A legal monopoly refers to a company that is operating as a monopoly under a government mandate. A legal monopoly offers a specific product or service at a regulated price. It can either be independently run and government regulated, or both government-run and government regulated. A legal monopoly is also known as a "statutory monopoly."


   How Legal Monopolies Work  

A legal monopoly is initially ordered because it is perceived as the best option for both a government and its citizens. For example, in the U.S., AT&T operated as a legal monopoly until 1982 because it was deemed vital to have cheap and reliable service that was readily available to everyone. Railroads and airlines have also been operated as legal monopolies, throughout different periods in history.






A legal monopoly materially differs from a "de facto" monopoly, which refers to a monopoly that is not created by a government entity.



The prevailing idea behind instituting legal monopolies is that if too many competitors invest in their own delivery infrastructure, prices across the board, in a given industry, would climb to unreasonably high levels. While this idea has merit, it does not sustain itself indefinitely, because in most cases, capitalism eventually wins out over legal monopolies. As technologies advances and economies evolve, playing fields typically level out, all on their own. Consequently, costs drop and barriers to entry diminish. In other words: competition ultimately benefits consumers, more-so than legal monopolies do.


   Examples of Legal Monopolies  

Throughout history, various governments have imposed legal monopolies on a variety of commodities, including salt, iron, and tobacco. The very earliest iteration of a legal monopoly is the Statute of Monopolies of 1623, an act by England's Parliament. Under this statute, patents evolved from letters patent, which is written orders issued by a monarch, granting title to an individual or a corporation.



The Dutch East India Company, British East India Company, and similar national trading companies were granted exclusive trade rights by their respective national governments. Private freelance traders operating outside the scope of those two companies were subject to criminal penalties. Consequently, those companies fought wars in the 17th century, in an effort to define and defend their monopoly territories.



Legal monopolies on alcohol remain fairly common, both as a source of public revenue and as a means of control. Meanwhile, monopolies on opium and cocaine—once important revenue sources—were converted or re-instituted during the twentieth century, to curb the abuse of controlled substances. For example, Mallinckrodt Incorporated is the only legal supplier of cocaine in the United States.



The regulation of gambling in many places includes a legal monopoly, with respect to national or state lotteries. Where private operations are allowed with businesses like horse racing tracks, off-track betting venues, and casinos, the authorities may license only one operator.





Key Takeaways

Legal monopolies are companies that operate as a monopoly under a government mandate.Legal monopolies are created for the purposes that offer a specific product or service to consumers, at a regulated price.Various governments have imposed legal monopolies on a variety of commodities, including tobacco, salt, and iron.
What Is the Legal Rate of Interest?  

The legal rate of interest is the highest rate of interest that can be legally charged on any type of debt, and to which a lender must adhere. The legal rate of interest applies to all types of debt, although certain types of debt may carry a higher legal rate than another—for instance, the legal limit for a payday lender may be higher than the legal limit for a student loan. The limit is set to prevent lenders from charging borrowers excessive interest rates.





Key Takeaways:

The legal rate of interest is the highest rate of interest that can be legally charged on any type of debt. Certain types of debt may carry a higher legal rate than another.The limits are set to prevent lenders from charging borrowers excessive interest rates.An interest rate that exceeds the legal rate of interest is classified as usuary, for which there are stiff penalties in most states.Each state sets a legal rate of interest and usuary rates through their respective laws. 


   Understanding the Legal Rate of Interest  

An interest rate that exceeds the legal rate of interest is classified as usury. There are usually stiff penalties for usury in most states, such as fines or even the forfeiture of principal and/or interest. The legal rate of interest can also be classified as the highest rate that lenders can charge for any legal claim that can be enforced in a court of law.



In the United States, individual states are responsible for setting their own interest rate laws. Although this type of financial activity could fall under the Constitution's commerce clause, Congress has not traditionally focused on usury. The government considers the collection of interest payments through violent means a federal offense.


  How the Legal Rate of Interest Is Applied in Different Jurisdictions  

Each state may set a legal rate of interest through their respective laws. For example, New York set its interest rates quaterly. Delaware’s legal rate of interest is 5%﻿﻿ above the Federal Reserve rate, which makes it subject to fluctuations.



In addition to these limits, each state typically sets separate general usury limits that may be higher. New York’s limit is 16%﻿﻿ for civil usury and 25%﻿﻿ for criminal usury. Banks and other providers of financing who do business in a state could be subject to that jurisdiction’s legal rate of interest.



There are certain exceptions and circumstances that may let lenders charge rates in excess of a jurisdiction’s legal rate of interest. Customers can choose to waive this protection when they apply for financing. Many lenders and financiers may require such an agreement to be signed by their customers to receive any financing.



The language that grants the company the right to charge higher interest rates may be included in the terms of service. Agreeing to receive financing at the interest rate assigned by the lender could override the protections that a legal rate of interest offer whether or not the customer later attests to fully understanding her rights.


   Special Considerations for the Legal Rate of Interest  

Lenders might be able to bypass a legal rate of interest through similar methods used to circumvent usury laws. For instance, credit card providers are allowed to charge interest rates based on the state where the company is incorporated rather than the states where their customers live. The lender might choose to incorporate in a state such as Delaware that offers more relaxed usury laws than other states.



Credit card companies typically have the option of charging interest rates that are allowed by the state where the company was incorporated rather than follow the usury laws that apply in the states where borrowers live. Nationally chartered banks similarly can apply the highest interested allowed by the state where the institution was incorporated. By incorporating in states such as Delaware or South Dakota, lenders have historically benefited from greater leeway allowed in those states’ relaxed usury laws.
What Is a Legal Separation?  

A legal separation is a court-ordered arrangement whereby a married couple lives apart, leading separate lives. A legal separation is a popular alternative to a divorce when the parties are unsure of the state of their marriage but want to establish financial boundaries and responsibilities, such as separation of assets, custody of dependents, and child support.





Key Takeaways

A legal separation is a court-ordered agreement in which a married couple lives separate lives, usually by living apart.The separation court order may specify financial obligations, child custody and visitation agreements, and child support.A legal separation is preferred over divorce for some people because of religious beliefs, financial reasons, and for the benefit of minor children.Separated spouses may be entitled to certain benefits despite being legally separated.


   Why Would You Get a Legal Separation?  

Although the reasons for seeking a legal separation vary, there are some common ones worth noting. Some religions prohibit married couples from divorcing and a legal separation grants most of the benefits of a divorce without compromising religious tenets. Also, those unsure of their marital future may opt for a legal separation, hoping for a reconciliation.



In spite of the pain from a split, sometimes a legal separation makes sense when a divorce doesn't. For example, a legal separation can be temporary, while a divorce is permanent. Some couples legally separate when trial separations don't work. This may be their last attempt at saving their marriage.



Couples with minor children often cite that a legal separation is more ideal for their children than a divorce. Although the parents function as a separate unit, the family may remain together, maintaining stability and order, for the most part. Moreover, many parents find that their children are better able to adjust to a divorce if they legally separate first.



Additionally, a legal separation is often simpler and more cost-effective than a divorce. With a legal separation, it's possible to retain health and retirement benefits. Also, for those who want a divorce, a legal separation is required in some states before a judge will grant one.






When the actual date of separation is determined, it freezes a spouse’s ability to freely spend money from a joint credit card or bank account. It also limits control over other assets such as properties and vehicles.


  Keeping Benefit Entitlements  

Reaching a 10th anniversary is a monumental occasion, but it is also a milestone that affects future benefits. For couples deciding to part ways, a legal separation may keep benefit entitlements intact. For example, military spouses must remain married for a decade to take advantage of the benefits provided by the Uniformed Services Former Spouse Protection Act.



Also, having remained married for at least 10 years qualifies ex-spouses for certain spousal Social Security benefits. If your spouse will draw significantly more Social Security than you will in retirement, it is beneficial to remain married for a minimum of 10 years so you can draw a larger sum by drawing on your spouse's Social Security retirement benefits.






A legal separation is as serious as a divorce because both are orders of the court, containing duties and obligations that each party must legally uphold. If the couple later divorces, judges may consider the details of the separation agreement when ruling on a divorce.


   Other Types of Separation  

Legal separation isn't the only option for couples who prefer to separate instead of divorce.


  Trial Separation  

Unlike a legal separation, a trial separation is an informal decision by a couple to temporarily separate. As the name suggests, couples use this approach when they aren't entirely certain about the separation and want to test whether or not a separation is right for them.


  Permanent Separation  

Permanent separation is considered by some to be the stage preceding a legal separation. Unlike a trial separation, the couple has at this point decided to separate permanently and assume there is no hope for reconciliation. However, for whatever reason—perhaps due to health insurance issues, costs, or just inertia—the couple has not taken action to mark the separation in court.


   Separation vs. Divorce vs. Annulment  

Though a divorce marks the official end of a valid marriage, an annulment treats the marriage as if it had never happened. When a judge grants an annulment, it indicates that the court does not recognize the arrangement as having been a legally valid marriage.



There are a number of scenarios in which a person can request an annulment. Among them:



The marriage was a result of force, fraud, or physical or mental incapacity.The marriage took place when one or both spouses were under the influence of drugs or alcohol.The marriage took place when one or both spouses were already married.


   Is Separation the Same as Divorce?  

In most cases, the legal termination of a marriage will result in a divorce. Unlike a separation, a divorce is permanent. This means both spouses are free to remarry. However—depending on the state where the couple lived and how long the marriage lasted—a divorce also means the termination of economic benefits such as shared insurance, assets, and liabilities.



Ultimately, electing for a divorce over a legal separation or vice versa is a personal choice. Factors such as the cost of the divorce, religious beliefs, the shared benefits that come with remaining married, any time-frame thresholds such as a 10-year anniversary for military couples, as well as simple uncertainty about permanently ending the marriage may make separation the correct choice.






When crafting a legal separation, both spouses should thoroughly address any issues about responsibilities, shared assets, or any other situation specific to the marriage that needs to be addressed. If the terms of the agreement are not clearly defined in the petition, the judge won't be able to help you.


   Legal Separation Requirements  

Every petition for legal separation must include the following information:



The legal names of both spousesThe date and location of the marriageThe names of any children or dependents of the marriageThe proposed custody arrangement of the childrenThe date when—and addresses where—the couple began living apartAny child support arrangement, as well as any other financial responsibilities to which both parties have agreed


   What Are the Disadvantages of a Legal Separation?  

Legal separations are serious and shouldn't be rushed into. While not as well known and extreme as a divorce, they still can be expensive, complicated to execute, create further friction between couples, and introduce obligations that may be complicated to reverse.



Some argue that a married couple should either work out their differences or just divorce. With a legal separation, the couple is legally separated but remains married. This leaves them in a kind of strange middle ground. For example, with this status spouses cannot remarry, as they would be able to do with a divorce. And if legal separation does lead to divorce, the couple will end up spending more money on court and legal fees, etc.




Do You Need a Lawyer to Establish a Legal Separation?
It is entirely possible to obtain a legal separation without hiring a lawyer. Most state and/or county courts have the necessary separation petition forms available for free on their websites. You and your spouse must complete all the necessary forms and submit them to the court clerk.




Which States Allow Legal Separation?
Most states allow legal separations—the exceptions are Florida, Delaware, Georgia, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, and Texas.




How Much Does a Legal Separation Cost?
If both parties are in agreement, don't contest the separation, and do not hire a lawyer to create the separation petition, the cost of legal separation will only amount to the court filing fee, usually around $50 to $300 depending on the state. In New York, for example, the cost of filing a separation petition is $210. The separation becomes much more expensive if there are issues that need to be resolved through the use of a lawyer.




How Long Does It Take To Get a Legal Separation?
The length of the separation process can vary depending on the state and the complexity of the agreement, but the process typically takes around six months to a year.


   The Bottom Line  

In most states, but not all, it’s possible to legally separate from your spouse. The process involves filing a petition in court, and leaves you neither married nor divorced—it’s a middle ground where you live separate lives and have separate bank accounts but are unable to remarry.



Legal separation is a serious matter that comes with duties that each party is legally obligated to uphold. And it is generally pursued as an alternative to divorce for religious beliefs, the benefit of younger children, or financial reasons.
What Is Legal Tender?  

Legal tender is anything recognized by law as a means to settle a public or private debt or meet a financial obligation, including tax payments, contracts, and legal fines or damages. The national currency is legal tender in practically every country. A creditor is legally obligated to accept legal tender toward repayment of a debt.





Key Takeaways

Legal tender is the legally recognized money within a given political jurisdiction.Legal tender laws effectively prevent the use of anything other than the existing legal tender as money in the economy. Legal tender serves the economic functions of money plus a few additional functions, such as making monetary policy and currency manipulation possible.


   Understanding Legal Tender  

Legal tender is established by a statute that specifies the thing to be used as legal tender and the institution that is authorized to produce and issue it to the public, such as the U.S. Treasury in the United States and the Royal Canadian Mint in Canada.



In the U.S., the recognized legal tender consists of Federal Reserve notes and coins. Creditors are required to accept them as payment offered to discharge a debt; however, except where prohibited by state law, private businesses may refuse to accept some or all forms of cash tender provided that a transaction has not already occurred and debt has not been incurred by the customer.



By default (and design), legal tender laws prevent the widespread adoption of anything other than the existing legal tender as money in the economy. A check, or a credit swipe, is not legal tender; it functions as a money substitute and merely represents a means by which the holder of the check can eventually receive legal tender for the debt.



Cryptocurrencies are not generally accepted for use as money largely because they lack legal tender status. However, El Salvador became the first country in the world to accept bitcoin as legal tender in June 2021.



In May 2013, the governor of Arizona vetoed a bill that would have made gold and silver coins legal tender in the state, in addition to existing U.S. currency.






   Special Considerations  

Some currencies, such as the U.S. dollar and euro, are used as legal tender in countries that either does not issue currencies of their own or have found the stable dollar preferable to their own currency. For example, Ecuador adopted the U.S. dollar as legal tender in 2000 after the Ecuadorian-issued currency, the sucre, depreciated rapidly such that $1 was worth 25,000 sucres.






Adopting the U.S. dollar as the primary legal tender is colloquially known as "dollarization," although the practice generally is called currency substitution.



In general, a legal tender can be in two fundamental forms. A government can simply ratify market-determined commodity money, such as gold, to be legal tender and agree to accept tax payments and enforce contracts denominated in that commodity. Alternatively, a government can declare an adulterated commodity or valueless token to be legal tender, which then takes on the characteristics of a fiat currency.


   Economic Function of Legal Tender  

Legal tender serves several purposes. By default, it is used by market participants to fulfill the functions of money in the economy: a medium of indirect exchange, a unit of account, a store of value, and a standard of deferred payment.



Proponents of legal tender laws argue that markets generally fail to produce the optimal type, quality, and quantity of money and that legal tender enhances the usefulness of money as a means to reduce transaction costs. Specifically, having a legal tender can allow flexibility in the money supply and a single currency can eliminate the transaction costs associated with the use of multiple competing currencies. The imposition of legal tender is one way to achieve a single currency.



The legal tender also makes monetary policy possible. From the point of view of the issuer, legal tender allows the manipulation, debasement, and devaluation of the currency by the issuer to obtain seigniorage and facilitates the issuance of fiduciary media by the banking system to meet the needs of trade.



In the absence of legal tender laws, Gresham's Law would make monetary policy, seigniorage, currency manipulation, and fiduciary media issuance much more difficult as good money tends to drive out bad money in that case.


   Cryptocurrency and Legal Tender  

The popularity of cross-border and online shopping is increasing the demand for more forms of money, such as popular cryptocurrency alternatives like bitcoin, to be recognized as legal tender. However, given official objection to such alternatives except in a few minor cases, these may still be some years away, and they do not represent legal tender in the U.S. or most other countries.






Note that El Salvador became the first country (in June 2021) in the world to accept bitcoin as legal tender.



Many online services accept cryptocurrencies, and this practice is perfectly legal. Due to their status as unofficial competitors to legal tender, cryptocurrencies are mostly limited to use in gray and black market activity or as speculative investments.



However, there are a few exceptions. In 2018, facing devastating hyperinflation, Venezuelan President Nicolas Madura ordered all federal institutions to accept a new electronic currency, the petro, as legal tender.



The Venezuelan petro is controlled centrally by the Venezuelan government, based on their own estimation of the value of their natural resources. The petro was claimed to be backed by Venezuela's natural gas, mineral, and oil reserves. Venezuela's experiment with the petro has not made much progress, however, and the petro does not circulate generally as money despite its legal tender status.



The tiny Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) also announced that it would adopt a new cryptocurrency, the sovereign, as legal tender. The sovereign will be pegged to an existing, decentralized peer-to-peer cryptocurrency market. Currently, the U.S. dollar functions as money and legal tender in the RMI and will continue to do so alongside the new legal tender when the government begins issuing sovereigns.
What Is Legislative Risk?  

Legislative risk is the potential that regulations or legislation by the government could significantly alter the business prospects of one or more companies. These changes can adversely affect investment holdings in that company. Legislative risk may occur as a direct result of government action or by altering the demand patterns of the company's customers.



Investors rarely complain about bailouts and preferential treatment to specific industries, perhaps because they all harbor a secret hope of profiting from them. However, when it comes to regulations and tax, they complain. What subsidies and tariffs can give to an industry in the form of competitive advantages, regulation and tax can take away from many more. With a single law, subsidy or switch of the printing press, they can send shock-waves around the world and destroy companies and whole industries. For this reason, many investors consider legislative risk as a huge factor when evaluating stocks.



A significant investment can turn out to be not that great after consideration of the government it operates under. (For related reading, see: The Government And Risk: A Love-Hate Relationship.)


   Legislative Risk Explained  

Legislative risk refers to the tentative relationship between governments and business. Specifically, it's the risk that government actions will constrain a corporation or industry, thereby adversely affecting an investor's holdings in that company or industry. The actual risk can appear in several ways including an antitrust suit, new regulations or standards, specific taxes, subsidies and so on. The legislative risk varies in degree according to industry, but every industry has some exposure.



In theory, the government acts as a buffer zone to keep the interests of businesses and the public from grinding on one another. It is the role of the government to step in when industry is endangering the public and seems unwilling to regulate itself. In practice, the government tends to over-legislate. This legislation increases the public image of the importance of the government, as well as providing the individual congressmen with publicity. These powerful incentives lead to a more increased legislative risk than is truly necessary.





Key Takeaways

Changes in regulatory legislation can alter a business' prospects if the company can no longer service their customer base.The imposition of taxes and other regulations on an industry may deter investors.Governments step in to regulate industries if the members of that industry do not restrict themselves.


   Real World Examples of Legislative Risk  

An example of an industry with high legislative risk is the healthcare industry. Drug manufacturers and healthcare providers both must contend with many ongoing legal issues related to Medicare, insurance coverage and other customer payment issues.



Another example comes from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT). The company outlined certain political risks it faces in its annual 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under its operating risk section. In its regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks section, the company outlines the risk associated with legislative, judicial, regulatory and political/economic risks. Risk factors mentioned include



Political instability
Legal and regulatory constraints
Local product safety and environmental laws
Tax regulations
Local labor laws
Trade policies
Currency regulations.



In its risks associated with suppliers, Wal-Mart mentioned potential political and economic instability in the countries where foreign suppliers operate. The also state labor problems, and international trade policies and the imposition of tariffs as issues. The company names Brazil and China specifically, and the complexity of their federal, state and local laws.
What Is the Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index?  

The Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index or "the Agg" is a broad-based fixed-income index used by bond traders and the managers of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) as a benchmark to measure their relative performance.



The Agg is to the bond market what the Wilshire 5000 Total Stock Index is to the equity market.



The index has been known as the Bloomberg Agg only since August 2021. It was for many years the Barclays Agg. Bloomberg purchased Barclays fixed-income indexes in 2016 and, for the following five years, labeled them as Bloomberg Barclays indices. All now carry only the Bloomberg name.





Key Takeaways

The Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index broadly tracks the performance of the U.S. investment-grade bond market.The index is composed of investment-grade government and corporate bonds. The iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond ETF (AGG) is one of the exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that track the index.


   Understanding the Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index  

The Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index is widely considered to be one of the best total bond market indices.



The index includes government Treasury securities, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), asset-backed securities (ABS), and munis to simulate the universe of bonds in the market. It tracks bonds that are of investment-grade quality or better.



The Agg's history can be traced to earlier indices founded by the Kuhn, Loeb & Co. investment bank in 1973. The investment bank created two indices—one that tracked U.S. government bonds and a second that tracked corporate bonds.


   Composition of the Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index  

The composition of the Agg index is designed to represent the full range of investment-grade bonds traded in the U.S. It is composed of more than 10,000 issues. U.S. Treasuries represent nearly 40% of the index. The remaining components represent the debt of major industries including real estate, industrial companies, financial institutions, and utilities.



An ETF tied to the Agg will closely mirror this distribution. For example, the iShares AGG ETF holds about 10,000 securities. The composition of the ETF includes (as of Jan. 22, 2022) 39.17% tied to U.S. Treasuries, 10.91% Federal National Mortgage Association, 5.65% Government National Mortgage Association, 5.36% Uniform MBS, and 4.5% Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. The remainder, each making up less than 1%, is in bonds issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Gold, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, and Goldman Sachs.


   Funds and ETFs That Track the Agg  

Investors looking to gain maximum exposure to the fixed income market can purchase an ETF or a mutual fund that tracks the index.



The largest bond ETF is the iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond ETF, which has net assets of more than $90 billion as of Jan. 22, 2022.



The Vanguard Total Bond Market Index Fund Admiral Shares (VBTLX), with $316.2 billion in assets as of Jan. 22, 2022, among the largest bond mutual funds in the world, tracks the performance of the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Float Adjusted Index.



The Vanguard Total Bond Market Index Fund has 65.4% of its funds invested in U.S. Government debt, 3.7% in AAA-rated debt, 3.2% in AA debt, 12.1% in A debt, and 15.5% in BBB debt.
What Was Lehman Brothers?  

Lehman Brothers was a global financial services firm. It provided investment banking, trading, investment management, private banking, research, brokerage, private equity, and associated services. The firm was one of the largest investment banks in the United States until Sept. 15, 2008, when it declared bankruptcy. Its failure was largely caused and accelerated by the subprime mortgage crisis. Its bankruptcy remains the largest ever. At the time of its Chapter 11 filing, Lehman Brothers was in operation for 164 years.





Key Takeaways

Lehman Brothers was a global financial firm that provided investment banking, trading, brokerage, and other services. It was the fourth-largest investment bank in the United States. The firm declared bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, because of the subprime mortgage market.Its collapse is regarded as deepening the 2008 financial crisis and is considered one of its defining moments.Barclays Bank and Nomura Holdings acquired Lehman's assets following its bankruptcy.


   Understanding Lehman Brothers  

Lehman Brothers was considered one of the major players in the global banking and financial services industries. At the time of its bankruptcy filing, Lehman held some $600 billion in assets diversified globally and was the fourth-largest investment firm in the U.S. It invested heavily in mortgage origination in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, in large part by utilizing leverage (at its peak at a ratio of about 30:1). As such, some say the firm became a de-facto real estate hedge fund. When real estate values peaked and began to falter between 2007 and 2008, Lehman Brothers became especially vulnerable. 



Over much of 2008, the firm fought off losses by issuing stock, selling assets, and reducing costs (issuing debt under such conditions became difficult to impossible). It had huge tranches of subprime and low-rated mortgage loans on its books that it either could not or chose not to sell.



When these loans became illiquid the firm went through a credit crunch, which meant it couldn't pay its creditors. Lehman could no longer raise cash cheaply by issuing debt, and issuing stock under such conditions led to share dilution and negative sentiment, which caused its share price to fall. Meanwhile, housing prices fell as buyers stayed on the sidelines because of market conditions and the inability to secure credit. As a result, the global financial system was under threat of collapse with the absence of any additional loans being made and the firm's significant threat of failure.



The Federal Reserve Bank of New York and several large investment U.S. banks met on Sept. 12, 2008, to discuss an emergency liquidation of Lehman in an attempt to stabilize the markets. The goal was to avoid a costly government bailout, such as the $25 billion loan the government made to Bear Stearns in March 2008. The discussions, which involved a potential sale to Bank of America and Barclays, failed (vetoed by the Bank of England and the U.K. Financial Services Authority). Efforts by potential acquirers to secure federal intervention were also unsuccessful.






Lehman Brothers' failure placed the subprime mortgage crisis prominently into the public eye and presaged the deepening of the Great Recession.


   History of Lehman Brothers  

Lehman Brothers was established by Henry Lehman, who emigrated from Germany. He opened a dry-goods store in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1844. The store became known as Lehman Brothers with the arrival of his brothers Emmanuel and Mayer. Their operation quickly expanded from dry goods into cotton and other commodities trading.



The firm's operations shifted to New York in 1858. At that time, the city became home to cotton and other commodities trading. Henry Lehman was responsible for the first incarnation of the grocery and general store business while his brothers laid the groundwork for what would become a financial industry powerhouse.



Over the next century and a half, the company underwent numerous changes and engaged in several alliances and partnerships. While the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy did not cause the Great Recession or even the subprime mortgage crisis, its downfall triggered a massive selloff in the global markets.






Lehman Brothers was allowed to fail. The repercussions were felt immediately and globally. For instance, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) fell 500 points the same day that Lehman declared bankruptcy. Its failure is regarded as a contributor to the Great Recession that followed.


   Lehman Brothers Today  

Lehman Brothers' assets, real estate holdings, and operations were sold off in a fire sale liquidation to repay investors. Within a month, Japanese bank Nomura bought the firm's operations in the Asia-Pacific region (Japan, Hong Kong, Australia), and also its investment banking and equities trading businesses in the Middle East and Europe. Barclays purchased its North American investment banking and trading operations, as well as its New York headquarters.


  In Popular Culture  

Not only was Lehman Brothers mentioned, but the firm's leadership at the time of its bankruptcy was portrayed in several financial-themed movies since 2008, such as in Margin Call, Too Big to Fail, and The Big Short.



The 2019 Showtime series Black Monday is a dark comedy about a financial crisis. The show features Larry and Lenny Lehman, two fictional siblings who were inspired by the real Lehman brothers.



In 2016, Erin Montella, former Lehman chief financial officer (CFO) who resigned in 2008, published an autobiography, Full Circle: A Memoir of Leaning in Too Far and the Journey Back. The book was about her experiences in the financial world.



Most notably, The Lehman Trilogy is a three-act play by Italian novelist and playwright Stefano Massini. It follows the lives of three immigrant brothers from when they arrive in America and establish their dry-goods business up through the collapse of the company in 2008. 



The production made its Broadway debut in March of 2020 and performed briefly before the COVID-19 pandemic, and resumed performances in the fall of 2021. The production received universal critical acclaim and eight Tony Award nominations winning five awards including for Best Play, Best Direction of a Play for Sam Mendes and Best Actor in a Play for Simon Russell Beale.




Why Did Lehman Brothers File Bankruptcy?
Lehman Brothers was forced to file for bankruptcy after its subprime mortgage portfolio was exposed to be worth far less than people had thought. Clients began to abandon Lehman as its stock price plummeted, and soon creditors would not lend the bank money. On Sept. 15, 2008, Lehman declared bankruptcy.




Why Was Lehman Brothers Not Bailed Out?
Regulators claimed they could not have rescued Lehman because it did not have adequate collateral to support a bailout loan under the Federal Reserve's emergency lending powers. Furthermore, the financial system was by then more fragile compared to when the Fed saved Bear Stearns. This was one reason why the government was not able to find a private-sector buyer for Lehman.Some have alternatively speculated that regulators wanted to make an example out of Lehman to show the cost of fiscal irresponsibility and excessive risk-taking on Wall St.; however, if true, this proved disastrous as contagion from Lehman's failure rippled throughout the global economy.




Who Were the Lehman Brothers?
A new immigrant from Germany to the U.S., Henry Lehman opened a dry goods store in Montgomery, Alabama. With the subsequent arrival of his two brothers Emmanuel and Mayer, the store became known as Lehman Bros. During the U.S. Civil War, cotton became an increasingly important domestic commodity. The Lehman brothers decided to capitalize on this by provisioning raw cotton at the dry goods store and then engaging in cotton trading in New York. The firm eventually abandoned the South entirely, relocating its headquarters to New York where it focused almost entirely on commodities trading and brokerage. In the following decades, the operations expanded into a full-service financial firm.
What Is the Lehman Formula?  

The Lehman formula is a compensation formula developed by Lehman Brothers to determine the commission on investment banking or other business brokering services. Lehman Brothers developed the Lehman Formula, also known as the Lehman Scale Formula, in the 1960s while raising capital for corporate clients.





Key Takeaways

Lehman Brothers developed the Lehman formula to determine the commission an investment bank should receive for arranging client transactions. ​​​​​​Large investment banks work with corporations to raise capital, often through an initial public offering (IPO), a merger or acquisition, or through a spinoff.For their services, an investment bank can charge flat fees for each transaction, earn commissions based on the dollar amount of the transaction, or a combination of both.The Lehman formula structures the investment banking fee on a percentage of the transaction amount based on a set of tiered fees.


   Understanding the Lehman Formula  

As a provider of global investment banking services, Lehman Brothers needed a way to clearly convey to its potential clients the fees they would charge for their services. It typically involved a sliding scale of percentages applied to different dollar amounts so that different tiers of money would receive different rates.



The advantage of the Lehman formula is that it's easy to understand and easy for the client to quickly get a ballpark estimate on how much their transaction might cost them in fees. It's not uncommon for large investment banking firms to assist clients with transactions worth hundreds of millions or billions of dollars. The Lehman formula structures the investment banking fee on a percentage of the transaction amount with a set of tiered fees.


   How Investment Banks Earn Their Fees  

Investment banks work with companies, governments, and agencies to raise money by issuing securities. An investment bank might help a company that has never issued stock to successfully complete its initial public offering (IPO). Other typical services that investment bankers provide include offering merger and acquisition (M&A) advice, developing reorganization strategies, or helping a company through a spinoff.



Investment banks make money in various ways. The can charge flat fees for each transaction, earn commissions based on the dollar amount of the transaction, or a combination of both. In the case of an IPO, an investment bank might provide underwriting services. The bank might buy stock in the IPO and then sell the shares to investors. The difference between what the bank purchased the IPO shares for and what they earn selling them to investors is the bank's profit.






Some investment banks that underwrite an IPO undertake the risk that they will not be able to sell the IPO shares for a higher price to investors, thus losing money on the trade.


   Examples of the Lehman Formula  

The original structure of the Lehman Formula is a 5-4-3-2-1 ladder, as follows:



5% of the first $1 million involved in the transaction4% of the second $1 million3% of the third $1 million2% of the fourth $1 million1% of everything thereafter (above $4 million)



Today and to keep up with inflation, investment bankers often seek some multiple of the original Lehman Formula, such as the double Lehman Formula. This structure is also more common in middle market transactions because of their complexity and longer close periods.



10% of the first $1 million involved in the transaction8% of the second $1 million6% of the third $1 million4% of the fourth $1 million2% of everything thereafter (above $4 million)


   Lehman Formula Base Methods  

There are several different ways the Lehman Formula can be used in terms of deciding what baseline dollar amount to use. Each of the three primary ways are discussed below.


  Million Dollar Amount (MDA)  

The Million Dollar Amount method, known as MDA, is the traditional approach where percentages are applied to distinct value brackets in a transaction. This is the example demonstrated above.



To further illustrate, imagine a substantial $12 million stock transaction. In this case:



The first $1 million may incur a 6% fee, totaling $60,000.The next $4 million might involve a 5% fee, amounting to $200,000.For the following $5 million, a 4% fee is applied, resulting in $200,000.Lastly, the remaining $2 million may have a 3% fee, equaling $60,000.



The total fee using the MDA method for this $12 million transaction would be $520,000, as the MDA method aggregates the fees for each tier. Notice that the percentages and tiers do not need to be aligned; firms can adjust either based on the deal or client. MDA is often preferred when dealing with smaller transactions due to its potential for generating higher fees in such cases.


  Total Value Amount (TVA)  

The Total Value Amount method, or TVA, takes a different approach by applying the highest percentage fee to the entire transaction value. For example, consider a substantial $18 million stock sale where the highest applicable fee is 4%. In this scenario, the 4% fee is applied to the entire $18 million, resulting in a fee of $720,000.



TVA is more efficient and straightforward for transactions that surpass a certain threshold, and it is clearly much more transparent on what the ultimate fee may be. Clients may prefer the simplicity of the fee structure; it also provides a certain level of guarantee of what the fee may be. Consider a company that may not know whether a stock sale will be $15 million or $25 million; should there be a higher fee rate at the higher end, it may be more favorable for a company to stick to a single fixed rate for every tier to better lock in forecasted fee amounts.


  Pertinent Value Amount (PVA)  

Last, Pertinent Value Amount, or PVA, functions similarly to TVA but introduces a tiered fee structure for transactions exceeding a specified threshold. This method really only works with larger deals that appear to cross over this threshold; otherwise, there is little incentive for the firm implementing the fee structure to agree to the deal.



Let's take an example of a $10 million stock sale under the PVA method. The first $4 million might incur a 2% fee, amounting to $80,000. The remaining $6 million may be subject to a 1% fee, resulting in an additional $60,000. The total fee using the PVA method for this $10 million transaction would be $140,000.



In this situation, it may not be known what the ultimate sale value will be. A company may be wary to agree to fees without knowing what the base cost will be. In this case, the company can be assessed a higher rate on a lower dollar threshold, then a single lower rate on a higher tier. This method blends the two methods above by having both a tier structure but also a simplified, more straightforward approach.






The concept of the Lehman Formula can be found in other industries. For example, financial advisors for personal investors may charge different fees for different services that may scale based on dollar amounts.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Lehman Formula  
  Pros of the Lehman Formula  

Investment banking compensation is often performance-based, which means that a significant portion of an investment banker's earnings is tied to their individual and team performance. This structure incentivizes bankers to work diligently, generate revenue, and create value for their clients and their firms. By directly linking compensation to results, the Lehman Formula encourages bankers to excel in their roles and strive for positive, large outcomes.



Investment bankers play a crucial role in helping clients achieve their financial objectives, whether it's raising capital, executing mergers and acquisitions, or entering capital markets. This compensation structure is designed to align with these client goals. For example, if an investment banker successfully advises a client on a large merger that enhances shareholder value, their compensation is reflective of the value created for the client.



Investment banking compensation structures can be flexible, allowing firms to tailor packages to the unique needs and preferences of their employees and the specific demands of their business. For example, the Lehman Formula can be adjusted with different fee rates for different dollar tiers for different clients. This flexibility enables firms to adapt to changing market conditions and evolving business strategies while still striving to land large clients.


  Cons of the Lehman Formula  

Performance-based compensation can encourage a short-term focus on immediate revenue generation and deal completion. Bankers may prioritize transactions that yield quick financial rewards over long-term strategic considerations. This can potentially lead to decisions that neglect the broader interests of clients and the firm as long as the upfront fee can be collected regardless of performance monitoring.



The pursuit of substantial fees and commissions may also create misaligned incentives. Individuals may prioritize their own financial interests over those of clients, potentially resulting in conflicts of interest, unethical behavior, or lack of incentive to perform well as fees may not be based on outcomes.



The performance-based compensation structures in investment banking have faced regulatory scrutiny, particularly following the 2008 financial crisis. Regulatory reforms have been introduced to address concerns about excessive risk-taking and incentive misalignment, including the possibility of bonuses incentivizing risky behavior. In the context of an IPO, an investment firm deploying the Lehman Formula must be mindful of not only the fee they are to collect but the longer-term market repercussions of its actions.





Pros

Motivates higher performance and revenue generation
Aligns some client objectives with firm objectives
May retain talent based on incentive compensation
May be flexible based on deal or client



Cons

May encourage shorter-term focus that derails true long-term value
May generate misalignment of incentives
May come under further scrutiny in the face of financial downturns





   A Brief History of Lehman Brothers  

Lehman Brothers was previously considered one of the major players in the global banking and financial services industries. However, on Sept. 15, 2008, the firm declared bankruptcy, largely due to its exposure to subprime mortgages. Lehman Brothers also had a reputation for short selling in the market.



A subprime mortgage is a type of mortgage that is normally issued by a lending institution to borrowers with relatively poor credit ratings. These borrowers will generally not receive conventional mortgages given their larger-than-average risk of default. Due to this risk, lenders will often charge higher interest rates on subprime mortgages.



Lenders began issuing NINJA loans—a step beyond subprime mortgages—to people with no income, no job, and no assets. Many issuers also required no down payment for these mortgages. When the housing market began to decline, many borrowers found their home values lower than the mortgage they owed. Interest rates associated with these loans (called "teaser rates”) were variable, meaning they started low and ballooned over time, making it very hard for borrowers to pay down the principal of the mortgage. These loan structures resulted in a domino effect of defaults.



The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers was one of the largest bankruptcy filings in U.S. history. Although the stock market was in modest decline prior to these events, the Lehman bankruptcy, coupled with the prior collapse of Bear Stearns, significantly depressed the major U.S. indexes in late Sept. and early Oct. 2008. After the fall of Lehman Brothers, the public became more knowledgeable about the forthcoming credit crisis and the recession of the late 2000s.




Why Is Incentive Compensation Important in Investment Banking?
Incentive compensation is crucial in investment banking as it motivates employees to perform at their best. It aligns their interests with those of clients and the firm, attracts and retains top talent, and offers flexibility in structuring compensation packages.




Is the Lehman Formula Flexible?
The Lehman Formula operates by applying specific percentages to different value brackets within a stock transaction. It calculates fees accordingly, and each can be tailored to specific transaction sizes and structures.




What Are the Risks Associated with Incentive Compensation?
Risks include the potential for excessive risk-taking to boost short-term performance, a short-term focus that may neglect long-term considerations, conflicts of interest when individual and firm goals misalign, and the possibility of unethical behavior to meet performance targets. In the context of the Lehman Formula, a company should not simply strive to perform a deal for the short-term financial benefit; it must be mindful of longer-term and market implications of its actions.




Is the Lehman Formula Only Used in Investment Banking?
While it's most commonly associated with investment banking, the Lehman Formula can be applied in various financial contexts where transaction-based compensation is determined based on value. It's also used in private placements and acquisitions. A similar fee-type structure may also be used in litigation where a legal firm may receive certain compensation based on the award amount broken into tiers.




Are There Regulatory Requirements for Using the Lehman Formula?
While there may not be specific regulations dictating the use of the Lehman Formula, regulatory bodies may scrutinize compensation arrangements, including those based on the formula, to ensure they do not encourage excessive risk-taking or unethical behavior.


   The Bottom Line  

The Lehman Formula is a method used in financial transactions, particularly in investment banking, to calculate compensation based on the transaction's value. It employs various methods, such as MDA, TVA, and PVA, to determine fees or commissions, aligning compensation with the size and structure of the deal. The formula can be customized per deal, though firms must be mindful of misalignment of incentives.
What Is the Lemons Problem?  

The lemons problem refers to issues that arise regarding the value of an investment or product due to asymmetric information possessed by the buyer and the seller. The theory of the lemons problem was put forward in a 1970 research paper in The Quarterly Journal of Economics, titled, "The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism," written by George A. Akerlof, an economist and professor at the University of California, Berkeley.





Key Takeaways

The lemons problem refers to the issues that arise regarding the value of an investment or product due to the asymmetric information available to the buyer and seller.The lemons problem theory was put forward by George A. Akerlof, an economist, who presented his ideas in a research paper titled, "The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism."The use of "lemon" refers to a slang term for a vehicle that has many problems and defects that negatively impact its utility.The lemon theory posits that in the used car market, the seller has more information regarding the true value of the vehicle than the buyer. This results in the buyer not wanting to pay more than the average price of the car, even if it is of premium quality. This benefits the seller if the car is a lemon but is a disadvantage if the car is of good quality.The existence of asymmetrical information is not only apparent in the used car market, but many markets, such as consumer and business products, and investing.


   Understanding the Lemons Problem  

In his paper, Akerlof examined the used car market and illustrated how the asymmetry of information between the seller and buyer could cause the market to collapse, getting rid of any opportunity for profitable exchange and leaving behind only "lemons," or poor products with low durability that the buyer purchased without sufficient information.



The problem of asymmetrical information arises because buyers and sellers don't have equal amounts of information required to make an informed decision regarding a transaction. The seller or holder of a product or service usually knows its true value or at least knows whether it is above or below average in quality. Potential buyers, however, typically do not have this knowledge, since they are not privy to all the information that the seller has.



Akerlof's original example of the purchase of a used car noted that the potential buyer of a used car cannot easily ascertain the true value of the vehicle. Therefore, they may be willing to pay no more than an average price, which they perceive as somewhere between a bargain price and a premium price.



Adopting such a stance may at first appear to offer the buyer some degree of financial protection from the risk of buying a lemon. Akerlof pointed out, however, that this stance actually favors the seller, since receiving an average price for a lemon would still be more than the seller could get if the buyer had the knowledge that the car was a lemon.



Ironically, the lemons problem creates a disadvantage for the seller of a premium vehicle, since the potential buyer's asymmetric information—and the resulting fear of getting stuck with a lemon—means that they are not willing to offer a premium price for a vehicle of superior value.


   Solutions to the Lemons Problem  

The lemons problem exists in the marketplace for both consumer and business products, and also in the arena of investing, related to the disparity in the perceived value of investments between buyers and sellers. The lemons problem is also prevalent in the financial sector, including insurance and credit markets. For example, in the realm of corporate finance, a lender has asymmetrical and less-than-ideal information regarding the actual creditworthiness of a borrower.



Akerlof proposed strong warranties as one means of overcoming the lemons problem, as they can protect a buyer from any negative consequences of buying a lemon. Another solution, one which Akerlof did not know about when he wrote the paper in 1970, is the explosion of readily available, widespread information that has been disseminated through the Internet and has also helped to reduce the problem.



For example, information services such as Carfax and Angie's List help buyers feel more confident in making a purchase, and they also benefit sellers because they enable them to command premium prices for genuinely premium products.




What Is the Lemons Principle?
The basic tenet of the lemons principle is that low-value cars force high-value cars out of the market because of the asymmetrical information available to the buyer and seller of a used car. This is primarily due to the fact that a seller does not know what the true value of a used car is and, therefore, is not willing to pay a premium on the chance that the car might be a lemon. Premium-car sellers are not willing to sell below the premium price so this results in only lemons being sold.




What Percentage of New Cars Are Lemons?
It is estimated that each year, approximately 150,000 cars (1%) are considered to be lemons; however, it is believed that the number is probably higher, due to people not reporting defective cars or not being aware of the extent of the defects.
What Is a Lender?  

A lender is an individual, a group (public or private), or a financial institution that makes funds available to a person or business with the expectation that the funds will be repaid. Repayment will include the payment of any interest or fees. Repayment may occur in increments (as in a monthly mortgage payment) or as a lump sum. One of the largest loans consumers take out from lenders is a mortgage.





Key Takeaways

A lender is an individual, a public or private group, or a financial institution that makes funds available to a person or business with the expectation that the funds will be repaid.Repayment includes the payment of any interest or fees.Repayment may occur in increments (as in a monthly mortgage payment) or as a lump sum.


   Understanding Lenders  

Lenders provide funds for a variety of reasons, such as a home mortgage, an automobile loan, or a small business loan. The terms of the loan specify how it must be satisfied (e.g., the repayment period) and the consequences of missing payments and default. A lender may go to a collection agency to recover any funds that are past due.


   How Do Lenders Make Loan Decisions?  
  Individual borrowers  

Qualifying for a loan depends largely on the borrower’s credit history. The lender examines the borrower’s credit report, which details the names of other lenders extending credit (current and previous), the types of credit extended, the borrower’s repayment history, and more. The report helps the lender determine whether—based on current employment and income—the borrower would be comfortable managing an additional loan payment. As part of their decision about creditworthiness, lenders may also use the Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score in the borrower’s credit report.






The lender may also evaluate the borrower’s debt-to-income (DTI) ratio—which compares current and new debt to before-tax income—to determine the borrower’s ability to pay.



When applying for a secured loan, such as an auto loan or a home equity line of credit (HELOC), the borrower pledges collateral. The lender will make an evaluation of the collateral’s full value and subtract any existing debt secured by that collateral from its value. The remaining value of the collateral will be the equity that affects the lending decision (i.e., the amount of money that the lender could recoup if the asset were liquidated).



The lender also evaluates a borrower’s available capital, which includes savings, investments, and other assets that could be used to repay the loan if income is ever cut due to a job loss or other financial challenge. The lender may ask what the borrower plans to do with the loan, such as use it to purchase a vehicle or other property. Other factors may also be considered, such as environmental or economic conditions.


  Business borrowers  

Different lenders have different rules and procedures for business borrowers.



Banks, savings and loans, and credit unions that offer Small Business Administration (SBA) loans must adhere to the guidelines of that program.



Private institutions, angel investors, and venture capitalists lend money based on their own criteria. These lenders will also look at the purpose of the business, the character of the business owner, the location of business operations, and the projected annual sales and growth for the business.



Small-business owners prove their ability for loan repayment by providing lenders both personal and business balance sheets. The balance sheets detail assets, liabilities, and the net worth of the business and the individual. Although business owners may propose a repayment plan, the lender has the final say on the terms.




Where Can I Get a Small Business Loan?
One good lender option for small business borrowers is the Small Business Administration (SBA), a U.S. government agency that promotes the economy by assisting small businesses with loans and advocacy. The SBA has a website and at least one office in every state.




What Are the Different Types of Mortgage Lenders?
The three most common options for borrowers seeking a mortgage lender are mortgage brokers, direct lenders (e.g., banks and credit unions), and secondary market lenders (e.g., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac).




How Can I Get a Mortgage with Bad Credit?
Getting a mortgage when you have bad credit is possible, but a larger down payment, mortgage insurance, and a higher interest rate will likely be required.


   The Bottom Line  

When you need to borrow money for a personal purchase or jumpstart your business, there are many options. When choosing a lender, look at their reputation and longevity—banks and other financial institutions are the traditional choices, but angel investors and online micro-lenders are gaining popularity. Before borrowing, make sure you understand the full breadth of your loan agreement and can afford to repay it.
What Is Lender of Last Resort?  

A lender of last resort (LoR) is an institution, usually a country's central bank, that offers loans to banks or other eligible institutions that are experiencing financial difficulty or are considered highly risky or near collapse. In the United States, the Federal Reserve acts as the lender of last resort to institutions that do not have any other means of borrowing, and whose failure to obtain credit would dramatically affect the economy.





Key Takeaways

A lender of last resort provides emergency credit to financial institutions that are struggling financially and near collapse.The Federal Reserve, or other central bank, typically acts as the lender of last resort to banks that no longer have other available means of borrowing, and whose failure to obtain credit would dramatically affect the economy.Some argue that having a lender of last resort encourages moral hazard: that banks can take excessive risks knowing that they will be bailed out.


   Understanding Lender of Last Resort  

The lender of last resort functions to protect individuals who have deposited funds—and to prevent customers from withdrawing out of panic from banks with temporary limited liquidity. Commercial banks usually try not to borrow from the lender of last resort because such action indicates that the bank is experiencing a financial crisis.



Critics of the lender-of-last-resort methodology suspect that the safety it provides inadvertently tempts qualifying institutions to acquire more risk than necessary since they are more likely to perceive the potential consequences of risky actions as less severe.


   Lender of Last Resort and Preventing Bank Runs  

A bank run is a situation that occurs during periods of the financial crisis when bank customers, worried about an institution's solvency, descend on the bank en masse, and withdraw funds. Because banks only keep a small percentage of total deposits as cash, a bank run can quickly drain a bank's liquidity and, in a perfect example of a self-fulfilling prophecy, cause the bank to become insolvent.



Bank runs and subsequent bank failures were prevalent following the 1929 stock market crash that led to the Great Depression. The U.S. government responded with new legislation imposing reserve requirements on banks, mandating they hold above a certain percentage of liabilities as cash reserves.






In a situation in which a bank's reserves fail to prevent a bank run, a lender of last resort can inject it with funds in an emergency so that customers seeking withdrawals can receive their money without creating a bank run that pushes the institution into insolvency.


   Criticisms of Lenders of Last Resort  

Critics of the practice of having a last-resort lender allege that it encourages banks to take unnecessary risks with customers' money, knowing they can be bailed out in a pinch. Such claims were validated when large financial institutions, such as Bear Stearns and American International Group, Inc., were bailed out in the midst of the 2008 financial crisis. Proponents state that the potential consequences of not having a lender of last resort are far more dangerous than excessive risk-taking by banks.
What Is Leptokurtic?  

Leptokurtic distributions are statistical distributions with kurtosis greater than three. It can be described as having a wider or flatter shape with fatter tails resulting in a greater chance of extreme positive or negative events.



It is one of three major categories found in kurtosis analysis. Its other two counterparts are mesokurtic, which has no kurtosis and is associated with the normal distribution, and platykurtic, which has thinner tails and less kurtosis.





Key Takeaways

Leptokurtotic distributions are those with excess positive kurtosis.These have a greater likelihood of extreme events as compared to a normal distribution.Risk-seeking investors can focus on investments whose returns follow a leptokurtic distribution, to maximize the chances of rare events—both positive and negative.


   Understanding Leptokurtic  

Leptokurtic distributions are distributions with positive kurtosis larger than that of a normal distribution. A normal distribution has a kurtosis of exactly three. Therefore, a distribution with kurtosis greater than three would be labeled a leptokurtic distribution.



In general, leptokurtic distributions have heavier tails or a higher probability of extreme outlier values when compared to mesokurtic or platykurtic distributions.



When analyzing historical returns, kurtosis can help an investor gauge an asset's level of risk. A leptokurtic distribution means that the investor can experience broader fluctuations (e.g., three or more standard deviations from the mean) resulting in greater potential for extremely low or high returns.















Kurtosis.
 Investopedia


   Leptokurtosis and Estimated Value at Risk  

Leptokurtic distributions can be involved when analyzing value at risk (VaR) probabilities. A normal distribution of VaR can provide stronger result expectations because it includes up to three kurtoses. In general, the fewer the kurtosis and the greater the confidence within each, the more reliable and safer a value at risk distribution is.



Leptokurtic distributions are known for going beyond three kurtoses. This typically decreases the confidence levels within the excess kurtosis, creating less reliability. Leptokurtic distributions can also show a higher value at risk in the left tail due to the larger amount of value under the curve in the worst-case scenarios. Overall, a greater probability for negative returns farther from the mean on the left side of the distribution leads to a higher value at risk.


   Leptokurtosis, Mesokurtosis, and Platykurtosis  

While leptokurtosis refers to greater outlier potential, mesokurtosis and platykurtosis describe lesser outlier potential. Mesokurtic distributions have kurtosis near 3.0, meaning that their outlier character is similar to that of the normal distribution. Platykurtic distributions have kurtosis less than 3.0, thus exhibiting less kurtosis than a normal distribution.



Investors will consider which statistical distributions are associated with different types of investments when deciding where to invest. More risk-averse investors might prefer assets and markets with platykurtic distributions because those assets are less likely to produce extreme results, while risk-seekers may seek leptokurtosis.


   Example of Leptokurtosis  

Let's use a hypothetical example of excess positive kurtosis. If you track the closing value of stock ABC every day for a year, you will have a record of how often the stock closed at a given value. If you build a graph with the closing values along the X-axis and the number of instances of that closing value that occurred along the Y-axis of a graph, you will create a bell-shaped curve showing the distribution of the stock's closing values. If there are a high number of occurrences for just a few closing prices, the graph will have a very slender and steep bell-shaped curve. If the closing values vary widely, the bell will have a wider shape with less steep sides. The tails of this bell will show you how often heavily deviated closing prices occurred, as graphs with lots of outliers will have thicker tails coming off each side of the bell.
What Are Least-Developed Countries (LDC)?  

Least-developed countries (LDCs) (sometimes referred to as less-developed countries) are underdeveloped countries that face significant structural challenges to sustainable development. The UN's list of LDCs currently comprises 46 countries.





Key Takeaways

Least-developed countries are low-income countries that face significant structural challenges to sustainable development.The United Nations Committee for Development Policy created measures to help LDCs gain access to and benefit from international support.As of October 2021, the U.N.'s list of LDCs contained 46 countries.


   Understanding Least-Developed Countries  

Least-developed countries are highly vulnerable to economic and environmental shocks and have fewer human assets than other nations. In some cases, least-developed countries are referred to as "emerging markets." LDCs have access to specific international support measures for development assistance and trade that are not available to more developed nations.



The U.N.'s Committee for Development Policy (CDP) Secretariat of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs/Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DPAD/DESA) created measures to help LDCs gain access to and benefit from international support. The secretariat is responsible for reviewing the status of LDCs and monitoring their progress after they graduate from the LDC category.



The secretariat’s criteria for placing nations on its list of least-developed countries include the categories of income, human assets, and economic vulnerability:



Income thresholds are $1,018, which is set at the three-year average of gross national income (GNI) per capita. The graduation threshold is 20% higher at $1,222.
Human assets are calculated using five indicators, grouped into a health and education subindex.
The economic vulnerability index measures structural vulnerability to economic and environmental shocks, with a high level of vulnerability, which indicates major structural impediments to sustainable development.


   List of Least-Developed Countries  

Forty-seven countries comprised the United Nations list of LDCs, as of Sept. 2020:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In March 2018, the CDP recommended that Bhutan, Kiribati, São Tomé and Príncipe, and the Solomon Islands graduate from the LDC category by the year 2024. This endorsement was unprecedented at the time, as never before had the committee recommended so many countries for graduation at a single review. In the 47 years that the LDC category has existed, only five countries have graduated: Botswana, Cabo Verde, Equatorial Guinea, Maldives, and Samoa. The committee has also scheduled Angola for graduation in 2024.
What Is a Lessee?  

A lessee is a person who rents land or property from a lessor. The lessee is also known as the “tenant” and must uphold specific obligations as defined in the lease agreement and by law. The lease is a legally binding document, and if the lessee violates its terms they could be evicted.





Key Takeaways

A lessee is a person who rents land or property, such as a vehicle. The person or entity the lessee rents from is the lessor. Most lessees must meet certain guidelines and restrictions when using the property, such as mileage limits on a leased vehicle. A lessee who is a tenant of a commercial or residential property may face different types of restrictions on their use of the space.Both lessees and lessors have rights and responsibilities related to rental property.


   Understanding Lessees  

Lessees who rent a property may be required to follow certain restrictions and guidelines in the use of the property or real estate they are paying to access and use. If the property is a vehicle under a lease, the lessee may need to keep their usage within certain mileage limits. The lessee could be subject to paying additional fees in the event that the mileage usage of the leased vehicle exceeds the agreed-upon limits.



Leased vehicles must also be maintained by the lessee with regular service and upkeep throughout the term of the agreement. These conditions must be met because the vehicle will be returned to the auto dealer at the end of the lease. The vehicle would then go on the market as a used car for sale. It is possible that a lessee might want to seek full ownership of the vehicle at the end of the lease if such an option is made available.






A lessor must provide a lessee with reasonable notice if they want to enter the leased property.


   Rights of Lessees  

A lessee who is a tenant of a commercial or residential property may face different types of restrictions on their use of the space. A commercial lessee could be granted certain rights to remodel the property to better suit the business that will use the space. This can include repainting of walls, adding signage associated with the company’s brand, or installing equipment that will be used during the course of business. A commercial lease will also specify if the property must be returned to its original state when the tenancy ends.



Residential lessees may be limited in the choices for (or barred from) repainting the space they occupy as tenants. They might be allowed to add nonpermanent decorations to the property. The lessee’s rights include:



The right to privacyThe right to basic standards of habitability such as water, electricity, and heatThe right to live in a space that complies with local building codes


   Rights of Lessors  

The lessor also has rights. These include:



The right to screen potential tenants
The right to know and approve of the occupant(s) of the leased unit
The right to use part or all of the tenant’s security deposit to repair any damage caused to the property by the lessee



The lessor’s responsibilities include complying with health and safety codes, making necessary repairs, returning a fair amount of the tenant’s security deposit when the lease is terminated, and providing advance notice to the tenant if it will be necessary to enter the unit.
What Is a Lessor?  

A lessor is essentially someone who grants a lease to someone else. As such, a lessor is the owner of an asset that is leased under an agreement to a lessee. The lessee makes a one-time payment or a series of periodic payments to the lessor in return for the use of the asset.





key takeaways

A lessor is the owner of an asset that is leased, or rented, to another party, known as the lessee.Lessors and lessees enter into a binding contract, known as the lease agreement, that spells out the terms of their arrangement.While any sort of property can be leased, the practice is most commonly associated with residential or commercial real estate—a home or office.The lessor may be a company or an individual depending on who or what entity owns the building. Depending on the circumstances, "landlord" can be another name for a lessor. 


   Understanding Lessors  

A lessor can be either an individual or a legal entity. The lease agreement that they enter into with another party is binding on both the lessor and the lessee and spells out the rights and obligations of both parties. In addition to the use of the property, the lessor may grant special privileges to the lessee, such as early termination of the lease or renewal on unchanged terms, solely at their discretion.



For a lessor, the main advantage of entering into a lease agreement is that they retain the ownership of the property while generating a return on their invested capital. For the lessee, periodic payments may be easier to finance than the total purchase price of the property.


   Types of Leases and Lessors  

In the public's mind, leases are usually associated with real estate—a rented residence or office. But actually, almost any sort of asset can be leased. It can be tangible property such as a home, office, car, computer, or intangible property like a trademark or brand name. The lessor in each instance is the owner of the asset.



For example, in the case of real estate or a car, the lessor is the property owner or automobile dealer respectively; in the case of a trademark or brand name, the lessor is the company that owns it and has conferred the right to use the trademark or brand name to a franchisee. When used in connection with the motor carrier industry, a lessor refers to the owner of a commercial motor vehicle who contracts with the entity that holds operating authority for the use of the vehicle.



Some lessors can also grant a "rent-to-own" lease whereby some or all of the payments made by the lessee will eventually be converted from lease payments to a down payment on the eventual purchase of the leased item. This type of arrangement usually occurs in a commercial context—when leasing large industrial equipment, for example. But it is also common in a consumer context with automobiles, and even with residential real estate.






The lessor is also known as the landlord in lease agreements that deal with property or real estate.


   Special Considerations  

The most common type of lease is for homes or apartments in which individuals and families live. Because housing is an important matter of public policy, many jurisdictions have created governing bodies that regulate and oversee the legal relationships and acceptable terms of leases between lessors and lessees in this field.



For example, in the state of New York, the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR) is responsible for administering rent regulation in the state, including New York City. This responsibility includes both rent control and rent stabilization.




Is a Lessor a Landlord?
A lessor may be called a landlord. A lessor is a person or legal entity that owns a property and rents it out to a lessee, who in term pays the lessor to live in their property.




Who Is the Lessor in a Lease Agreement?
The lessor in a lease agreement is the person or legal entity who grants a lease to an individual or family, often a lease on a property. The lessor is the owner of the asset in the lease agreement.




Who Is the Lessee in a Lease Agreement?
A lessee is the person or legal entity leasing the asset provided by the lessor. A lessee in a lease agreement is responsible for making a payment or payment to the lessor for using the asset named in the lease agreement, such as an apartment or a storefront.
What Is a Letter of Comfort?  

A letter of comfort—also known as a letter of intent or a solvency opinion—is a written document that provides a level of assurance that an obligation will ultimately be met. In its traditional context, a letter of comfort is given to organizations or persons of interest by external auditors regarding statutory audits, statements, and reports used in a prospectus. The letter of comfort will be attached to the preliminary statements as assurance that it will not be materially different from the final version.





Key Takeaways

A letter of comfort is a written document that provides a level of assurance that an obligation will ultimately be met.A letter of comfort is often couched in vague wording, in order to prevent the issuer from being saddled with a legally enforceable obligation.A letter of comfort can contain a variety of provisions, including ones regarding non-competition, confidentiality, or compensation to one party if another party quits a deal.A parent company may write a letter of comfort on behalf of its subsidiary in order to assist the subsidiary in obtaining credit or financing.


   Understanding a Letter of Comfort  

In practical uses, letters of comfort are often issued by auditors to lenders as solvency opinions on whether a borrower can meet the payment obligations of a loan. They are opinions, not guarantees, that the underlying company will remain solvent.



Letters of comfort can also be issued to underwriters as an obligation to carry out "reasonable investigation" into offerings of securities. These letters of comfort will ensure that the reports conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This helps the underwriter better understand aspects of the financial data that might not otherwise be reported, such as changes to financial statements and unaudited financial reports.



Yet another broad category of letter of comfort application is the parent company to a subsidiary entity. Whereby a parent company can issue a letter of comfort (also known as a keepwell agreement) on behalf of a subsidiary that needs to borrow from a bank in its locale or provide a letter to a supplier of a subsidiary that wishes to transact a large purchase order of raw materials.


   Benefits of a Letter of Comfort  

Two parties in a business deal can use a letter of comfort to put in writing the outline of the terms of their deal. Most major business transactions require a lot of time on management's part to perform due diligence before they can finalize a deal. A letter of comfort can summarize the steps each party agrees to take to ensure the successful completion of the transaction. A well-written letter of comfort can assure each party that the time spent on completing these tasks will be well worth the effort.



Although the letter of comfort is not binding between the two parties, it may have binding provisions. The letter of comfort provides an opportunity for the two parties to clearly spell out these binding provisions. For example, a binding provision might state that one party owes the other party a sum of money should it decide to pull out of the deal. This sum of money might be equal to the costs incurred by the party who has not left the deal.



A letter of comfort might also include binding provisions regarding confidentiality stipulating what the parties may or may not divulge to outside parties regarding the transaction. A letter of comfort can have a wide range of binding provisions, including ones regarding non-competition or the hiring of certain executive employees should the deal go through.






If a deal goes through, the terms of the final contract will supersede the details outlined in the letter of comfort.



A letter of comfort can also enhance a company's ability to obtain much-needed funding. If a reliable, third-party attests to the company's capacity to repay a loan, the company can present this statement to the lending institution as evidence of its creditworthiness. While the lending institution will consider many factors in its decision, a persuasive letter of comfort can be a critical factor on the company's behalf.


   Special Considerations  

A letter of comfort is typically couched in vague wording, in order to prevent the issuer from being saddled with a legally enforceable obligation. In many cases, a letter of comfort creates a moral obligation for the issuer rather than a legal one.



Companies generally do not furnish letters of comfort unless absolutely necessary. This is because in the worst-case scenario the company may be on the hook financially should an unexpected situation occur. For example, if a subsidiary is unable to repay a debt, the parent company may either be liable for the full amount if the letter of comfort was poorly worded, or may have to incur expensive legal fees to prove that its letter of comfort was not a tacit guarantee of its subsidiary's payment obligation.
What Is a Letter of Credit?  

A letter of credit, or a credit letter, is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer’s payment to a seller will be received on time and for the correct amount. If the buyer is unable to make a payment on the purchase, the bank will be required to cover the full or remaining amount of the purchase. It may be offered as a facility (financial assistance that is essentially a loan).



Due to the nature of international dealings, including factors such as distance, differing laws in each country, and difficulty in knowing each party personally, the use of letters of credit has become a very important aspect of international trade.





Key Takeaways

A letter of credit is a document sent from a bank or financial institute that guarantees that a seller will receive a buyer’s payment on time and for the full amount.Letters of credit are often used within the international trade industry.There are many different letters of credit including one called a revolving letter of credit.Banks collect a fee for issuing a letter of credit.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   How a Letter of Credit Works  

Buyers of major purchases may need a letter of credit to assure the seller that the payment will be made. A bank issues a letter of credit to guarantee the payment to the seller, essentially taking responsibility that the seller will be paid. A buyer must prove to the bank that they have enough assets or a sufficient line of credit to pay before the bank will guarantee the payment to the seller.






Banks typically require a pledge of securities or cash as collateral for issuing a letter of credit.



Because a letter of credit is typically a negotiable instrument, the issuing bank pays the beneficiary or any bank nominated by the beneficiary. If a letter of credit is transferable, the beneficiary may assign another entity, such as a corporate parent or a third party, the right to draw.



The International Chamber of Commerce’s Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits oversees letters of credit used in international transactions.


  How Much a Letter of Credit Costs  

Banks will usually charge a fee for a letter of credit, which can be a percentage of the total credit that they are backing. The cost of a letter of credit will vary by bank and the size of the letter of credit. For example, the bank may charge 0.75% of the amount that it's guaranteeing.



Fees can also depend on the type of letter. In an import-export situation, an unconfirmed letter of credit is less costly. A confirmed letter of credit may have higher fees attached based on the issuing bank's credit strength.


   Types of Letters of Credit  

The types of letters of credit include a commercial letter of credit, a revolving letter of credit, a traveler’s letter of credit, and a confirmed letter of credit. International trade will also sometimes use an unsecured—red clause—letter of credit.


  Commercial Letter of Credit  

This is a direct payment method in which the issuing bank makes the payments to the beneficiary. In contrast, a standby letter of credit is a secondary payment method in which the bank pays the beneficiary only when the holder cannot.


  Revolving Letter of Credit  

This kind of letter allows a customer to make any number of draws within a certain limit during a specific time period. It can be useful if there are frequent shipments of merchandise, for example, and you don't want to redraft or edit letters of credit each time.


  Traveler’s Letter of Credit  

For those going abroad, this letter will guarantee that issuing banks will honor drafts made at certain foreign banks.


  Confirmed Letter of Credit  

A confirmed letter of credit involves a bank other than the issuing bank guaranteeing the letter of credit. The second bank is the confirming bank, typically the seller’s bank. The confirming bank ensures payment under the letter of credit if the holder and the issuing bank default. The issuing bank in international transactions typically requests this arrangement.


   Example of a Letter of Credit  

Citibank offers letters of credit for buyers in Latin America, Africa, Eastern Europe, Asia, and the Middle East who may have difficulty obtaining international credit on their own. Citibank’s letters of credit help exporters minimize the importer’s country risk and the issuing bank’s commercial credit risk.



Letters of credit are typically provided within two business days, guaranteeing payment by the confirming Citibank branch. This benefit is especially valuable when a client is located in a potentially unstable economic environment.


   How to Apply for a Letter of Credit  

Letters of Credit are best prepared by trained professionals, as mistakes in the detailed documents required can lead to payment delays and fees. Due to industry variations and types of letters of credit, each may be approached differently.



Here's an import-export example.



The importer’s bank credit must satisfy the exporter and their bank. The exporter and importer complete a sales agreement.Using the sales agreement's terms and conditions, the importer’s bank drafts the letter of credit; this letter is sent to the exporter's bank. The exporter’s bank reviews the letter of credit and sends it to the exporter after approval.The exporter ships the goods as the letter of credit describes. Any required documentation is submitted to the exporter's bank.The exporter’s bank reviews documentation to ensure letter of credit terms and conditions were met. If approved, the exporter's bank submits documents to the Importer’s bank.The importer's bank sends payment to the exporter’s bank. The importer can now claim the goods sent.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Letter of Credit  

Obtaining letters of credit may be necessary in certain situations. However, like anything else related to banking, trade, and business there are some pros and cons to acknowledge.




Advantages and Disadvantages of a Letter of Credit

Advantages

Can create security and build mutual trust for buyers and sellers in trade transactions.
Makes it easier to define the specifics of when and how transactions are to be completed between involved parties.
Letters of credit can be personalized with terms that are tailored to the circumstances of each transaction.
Can make the transfer of funds more efficient and streamlined.



Disadvantages

Buyers typically bear the costs of obtaining a letter of credit.
Letters of credit may not cover every detail of the transaction, potentially leaving room for error.
Establishing a letter of credit may be tedious or time-consuming for all parties involved.
The terms of a letter of credit may not account for unexpected changes in the political or economic landscape.







How Does a Letter of Credit Work?
Often in international trade, a letter of credit is used to signify that a payment will be made to the seller on time, and in full, as guaranteed by a bank or financial institution. After sending a letter of credit, the bank will charge a fee, typically a percentage of the letter of credit, in addition to requiring collateral from the buyer. Among the various forms of letters of credit are a revolving letter of credit, a commercial letter of credit, and a confirmed letter of credit.




What Is an Example of a Letter of Credit?
Consider an exporter in an unstable economic climate, where credit may be more difficult to obtain. A bank could offer a buyer a letter of credit, available within two business days, in which the purchase would be guaranteed by the bank's branch. Because the bank and the exporter have an existing relationship, the bank is knowledgeable of the buyer’s creditworthiness, assets, and financial status. 




What Is the Difference Between a Commercial Letter of Credit and a Revolving Letter of Credit?
As one of the most common forms of letters of credit, commercial letters of credit are when the bank makes payment directly to the beneficiary or seller. Revolving letters of credit, by contrast, can be used for multiple payments within a specific time frame. Typically, these are used for businesses that have an ongoing relationship, with the time limit of the arrangement usually spanning one year.


   The Bottom Line  

Letters of credit can play an important part in trade transactions. There are different types of letters of credit that may be used, depending on the circumstances. If you need to obtain a letter of credit for a business transaction, your current bank may be the best place to begin your search. You may, however, need to expand the net wider to include larger banks if you maintain accounts at a smaller financial institution.
What Is a Letter of Guarantee?  

A letter of guarantee is a type of contract issued by a bank on behalf of a customer who has entered a contract to purchase goods from a supplier. The letter of guarantee lets the supplier know that they will be paid, even if the customer of the bank defaults. To get a letter of guarantee, the customer will need to apply for it, similar to a loan. If the bank is comfortable with the risk, they will back the customer with the letter, for an annual fee.



A letter of guarantee may also be issued by a bank on behalf of a call writer guaranteeing that the writer owns the underlying asset and that the bank will deliver the underlying securities should the call be exercised. Call writers will often use a letter of guarantee when the underlying asset of a call option is not held in their brokerage account.





Key Takeaways

A letter of guarantee is a contract issued by a bank on behalf of a customer who has entered a contract to purchase goods from a supplier. Letters of guarantee let the supplier know they will be paid even if the customer of the bank defaults.A bank may issue a letter of guarantee on behalf of a call writer guaranteeing that the writer owns the underlying asset and that the bank will deliver the underlying securities should the call be exercised. Letters of guarantee are often used when one party in a transaction is uncertain the other party involved can meet their financial obligation—especially common with purchases of costly equipment or other property.Letters of guarantee are used in a wide variety of business situations, including contracting and construction; financing from a financial institution; or declarations during export and import processes.


   Understanding Letters of Guarantee  

Letters of guarantee are often used when one party in a transaction is uncertain that the other party involved can meet their financial obligation. This is especially common with purchases of costly equipment or other property. However, a letter of guarantee may not cover the whole amount of the debt. For example, a letter of guarantee in a bond issue may promise either interest or principal repayment, but not both.



The bank will negotiate how much they will cover with their client. Banks charge an annual for this service, which is typically a percentage of how much the bank may owe if their client defaults. 



Letters of guarantee are used in a wide variety of business situations. These include contracting and construction, financing from a financial institution, or declarations during export and import processes.


   Letter of Guarantee for a Call Writer  

Because many institutional investors maintain investment accounts at custodian banks rather than at broker-dealers, a broker often accepts a letter of guarantee for call writers with short options as a replacement for holding cash or securities. The letter of guarantee must be in a form that the exchange, and potentially the Options Clearing Corporation, accepts. The issuing bank agrees to give the broker the underlying securities if the call writer’s account is assigned.






To obtain a letter of guarantee, a customer must apply for it, much like a loan.


   Example of a Letter of Guarantee  

Assume Company XYZ is buying a large piece of customized equipment for their shop at a cost of $1 million. The supplier of the equipment will need to fabricate it, and it may not be ready for several months. The buyer doesn't want to pay right now, but the supplier also doesn't want to spend time and resources building this piece of equipment without some guarantee that that buyer will buy it, and has the resources to buy it. The buyer can go to their bank and get a letter of guarantee. This should help appease that supplier, as the bank is backing the buyer.



Assume a call writer has 10 contracts short of fictional stock YYY. That is equivalent to 1000 shares. If the stock price rises, those short-call positions will be losing money, and since there is no cap on how far a stock can rise the loss could theoretically be infinite. But if the call writer owns 1000 shares of a stock then the risk is mitigated. This is a covered call. 



In order to short the contracts in the first place, the writer may have had to produce a letter of guarantee showing that they own the stock (in another account, otherwise the broker would not require the letter), since the broker may have viewed the uncovered short call as too risky.
What Is a Letter of Indemnity (LOI)?  

A letter of indemnity (LOI) is a contractual document that guarantees certain provisions will be met between two parties. Such letters are traditionally drafted by third-party institutions like banks or insurance companies, which agree to pay financial restitution to one of the parties, should the other party fail to live up to its obligations. In other words, the chief function of an LOI is to ensure that Party A won't ultimately suffer any losses if Party B falls delinquent.



The concept of indemnity has to do with holding someone harmless, and a letter of indemnity outlines the specific measures that will be used to hold a party harmless.





Key Takeaways

A letter of indemnity (LOI) is a legal agreement that renders one or both parties to a contract harmless by some third party in the event of a delinquency or breach by the contracted parties.In other words, the party or parties are indemnified against a possible loss by some third party, such as an insurance company.LOIs are used in all sorts of business dealings, from global trade and commerce to borrowing and lending.


   Understanding Letters of Indemnity (LOIs)  

A letter of indemnity states that any damages caused by the first party to the second party, or to the second party's belongings, are the responsibility of and are facilitated by the third party, as per the contractual agreement. In that sense, LOIs, which are also referred to as "indemnity bonds" or "bonds of indemnity," are similar to insurance policies known as indemnity insurance.



Letters of indemnity are used during various types of business transactions. In cases where items of value are being transported by second parties like moving companies or delivery services, LOIs ensure the party who owns the valuables will be compensated, if his possessions are lost, damaged, or stolen during transport. LOIs are generally signed when the valuable items in question are presented to the recipient, prior to a bill of lading, which is a document issued by a carrier, acknowledging the receipt of cargo.



Letters of indemnity can also be used when a second party borrows something of value from the first party, such as a car or a power tool. In this case, the first party (the owner) can present the second party (the borrower) with a letter of indemnity stating that any damages are the sole responsibility of the borrower. LOIs should always be signed by a witness, but in cases involving inordinately valuable items, it's preferable to have an insurance carrier representative, a banker, or another professional operative sign the document, in lieu of a simple witness.






Letters of indemnity should include the names and addresses of both parties involved, plus the name and affiliation of the third party. Detailed descriptions of the items and intentions are also required, as are the signatures of the parties and the date of the contract's execution.


   Letter of Indemnity Example  

Let’s say you hire a professional painter to paint your house. You sign a contract with them to paint your home using a specific brand, color, and type of paint. However, after the contract is signed and the terms are agreed upon, the painter discovers that the specific type of paint has been discontinued. The painter could write you a letter of indemnity, in which they will promise to obtain acceptable paint, or return your deposit and cancel the contract. The letter of indemnity establishes that you won’t pay the consequences for the painter being unable to uphold their part of the contract.
What Is a Letter of Intent (LOI)?  

A letter of intent (LOI) is a document declaring the preliminary commitment of one party to do business with another. The letter outlines the chief terms of a prospective deal. Commonly used in major business transactions, LOIs are similar in content to term sheets. One major difference between the two, though, is that LOIs are presented in letter formats, while term sheets are listicle in nature.





Key Takeaways

A letter of intent is a document declaring the preliminary commitment of one party to do business with another.The letter outlines the chief terms of a prospective deal and is commonly used in business transactions.LOIs are useful when two parties are initially brought together to hammer out the broad strokes of a deal before resolving the finer points of a transaction.Terms included in an LOI are certain stipulations, requirements, timelines, and the parties involved.Many LOIs include non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) and no-solicitation provisions.Letters of intent are also used outside of the business world in any circumstance where two parties intend to work together or form a deal.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding a Letter of Intent (LOI)  

LOIs are useful when two parties are initially brought together to hammer out the broad strokes of a deal before the finer points of a transaction are resolved. LOIs often include provisions stating that a deal may only go through if financing has been secured by one or both parties, or that a deal may be squashed if papers are not signed by a certain date.






Since LOIs typically discuss potential points of deals that have yet to be cemented, they are almost universally intended to be non-binding.



LOIs can be iterative in nature. One party may present an LOI, to which the other party may either counter with a tweaked version of that LOI or draft a new document altogether. Ideally, by the time both parties come together to formalize a deal, there will be no surprises on either side of the table.



Many LOIs include non-disclosure agreements (NDAs), which contractually stipulate the components of a deal both parties agree to keep confidential, and which details may be shared publicly. Many LOIs also feature no-solicitation provisions, which forbid one party from poaching the other party's employees.



A letter of intent is usually drafted and signed while negotiations between parties are ongoing so that the final terms of a deal might vary from what was agreed upon in the letter of intent. Due diligence is conducted by both parties before doing business. It is a prudent business practice to complete due diligence before signing a letter of intent.


   Purpose of a Letter of Intent (LOI)  

Letters of intent may be used by different parties for many purposes. Parties can use an LOI to outline some of the basic, fundamental terms of an agreement before they negotiate and finalize all the fine points and details. Furthermore, the LOI may be used to signal that two parties are negotiating a deal such as a merger or joint venture (JV).



Overall, LOIs aim to achieve the following:



Clarify which key points of a deal must be negotiated.
Protect all parties involved in the deal.
Announce the nature of the deal, such as a joint venture or a merger between two companies.


   Applications of a Letter of Intent (LOI)  

In the context of business deals, LOIs are typically drafted by a company's legal team, which outlines the details of the intended action. For example, in the merger and acquisitions (M&A) process, LOIs detail whether a firm plans to take over another company with cash or through a stock deal.



Letters of intent also have applications beyond the business world. For example, parents may use them to express the expectations they have for their children in the event both parents die. Although they aren't legal documents like wills, LOIs may be considered by family court judges responsible for legislating what happens to the children under such circumstances.



LOIs are also used by those seeking government grants, and by highly sought-after high school varsity athletes. These individuals frequently draft LOIs to declare their commitments to attend particular colleges or universities.
What Is Level 1?  

Level 1 is a type of trading screen used with stock trading that displays the best bid-offer-volume quotes in real-time, or the national best bid and offer (NBBO). Level 1 quotes supply basic information that, for the most part, is more than sufficient for most investors, though some extremely active traders prefer order book and market depth information that can be found in higher-level quotes.



The U.S. stock market has three tiers of quotes: Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3. Looking at these quotes allows an investor to see how a specific stock is performing over time as well as where the market action is consolidating.





Key Takeaways

Level 1 is a type of trading screen used in stock trading that displays real-time quotes for the national best bid and offer in a security.With the advent of the internet and online trading, Level 1 quotes are now widely offered, and investors can access them for free.Level 1 quotes are often enough for long-term investors that don't care too much about the price changing slightly.Active traders looking to capture much smaller gains often use Level 2 quotes so they can gather more information.


   Understanding Level 1  

Level 1 quotes were relatively rare before the advent of the internet and online trading, but are now widely offered, and investors can access them for free. These quotes can be found on brokers' websites as well as across financial news and media portals, such as Morningstar or Yahoo! Finance. The information is often provided directly by an exchange or through a data broker intermediary.



Reliable Level 1 quotes aid investors in getting better prices for security purchases and sales, especially in fast-moving markets, where investors may prefer limit orders rather than market orders.



For example, an investor looking to purchase $1,000 worth of a stock may check the Level 1 quote to see if they will be able to purchase the entire amount at a given price or if their order will likely be executed at a higher price.



Level 1 quotes are often enough for long-term investors that don't care too much about the price changing slightly. However, active traders looking to capture much smaller gains often use Level 2 quotes so they can gather more information.


   Quote Levels  

Level 1 quotes provide basic price data for a security including the best bid and ask price + size on each side.
Level 2 quotes provide more information than Level 1 quotes by adding market depth. Level 2 shows market depth typically up to the 5-10 best bid and offer prices.
Level 3 quotes add greater market depth by providing up to 20 of the best bid and ask prices. Users can also input data directly. These are primarily used by brokers and market makers.



All three levels of quotes build on top of each other. Level 1 quotes provide investors with the highest bid and the lowest ask prices for an individual stock. This will also represent the most recent data for the particular security based on the order book in an exchange. These types of quotes are the most common and are what individual investors see when they request information from their financial services company. Level 1 quotes provide the best real-time bid/ask for a given security.



Level 2 quotes go a step further by offering market depth to real-time quotes for each symbol. The added granularity helps active traders determine the magnitude of buy and sell orders at different prices (depth) and shows where most orders are concentrated among market makers (order book). This allows investors to identify the tightest, lowest bid/ask spread, which is important for larger investors who conduct high volume and high-frequency trades (HFT).



For example, suppose that an active trader sees that Acme Co. has a Level 1 quote showing a $5.00 price with a $5.10x100 ask and a $4.90x500 bid. The trader may assume there is strong support at $4.90 with an order for 500 shares and relatively weak resistance at $5.10 with just 100 shares on the market. However, Level 2 quotes may show an order for 1,000 shares at $5.11 and no orders below $4.90 until $4.85, which makes the stock look a lot weaker than the Level 1 quotes would imply.



There are also Level 3 quotes, which provide all the information and services of Level 1 and Level 2 quotes as well as granting an investor the ability to enter or change quotes, execute orders, and send out confirmations of trades. These types of quotes are reserved for registered brokers and financial institutions. Market makers, for example, participate in Level 3 quotes, which allows them to execute customer orders.
What Is Level 2  

First introduced in 1983 as the Nasdaq Quotation Dissemination Service (NQDS), Level 2 is a subscription-based service that provides real-time access to the NASDAQ order book. It is intended to display market depth and momentum to traders and investors.﻿﻿



The service provides price quotes from market makers registered in every NASDAQ-listed and OTC Bulletin Board securities. The Level 2 window shows the bid prices and sizes on the left side and ask prices and sizes on the right side.





Key Takeaways


Nasdaq's Level 2 subscription service provides market depth and momentum statistics to traders. It is intended to provide a bird's eye view of market action.
The additional information related to pricing action and market momentum gives traders and investors a leg up in implementing trading strategies.



   Basics of Level 2  

Level 2 provides users with depth of price information, including all the available prices that market makers and electronic communication networks (ECN) post.﻿﻿



Level 1 offers enough information to satisfy the needs of most investors, providing the inside or best bid and ask prices.﻿﻿ However, active traders often prefer Level 2 because it displays the supply and demand of the price levels beyond or outside of the national best bid offer (NBBO) price. This gives the user a visual display of the price range and associated liquidity at each price level. With this information, a trader can determine entry and or exit points that assure the liquidity needed to complete the trade.



Price movement on Level 2 is not necessarily an actual reflection of the recorded trades; Level 2 is just a display of the available price and liquidity. This is an important distinction because high-frequency trading programs frequently adjust Level 2 bid and ask prices violently to shake the trees and panic onlookers despite the lack of actual executed trades. This practice is common in momentum stocks.


   Level 2 and Reserve and Hidden Orders  

Many ECNs, which are the automated systems that match buy and sell orders for securities, offer the ability for traders to post reserve orders and hidden orders. ECNs generally display the best available bid and ask quotes from multiple market participants, and they also automatically match and execute orders.



ECNs offer a reserve order option, which is composed of a price and display size along with the actual size. This order only shows the specific display size on Level 2 as it hides the true size of the entire order.



Hidden orders, which are an option where investors can hide large orders from the market on the ECN, function in a similar way but are invisible on Level 2. This allows for more discretion in determining prices. The best way for users to determine the status of reserve or hidden orders is to check the time and sales for trades at the indicated prices.


   Benefits of Trading Using Level 2 Quotes  

The main benefit of using Level 2 quotes is getting access to a wealth of information related to the market. This information can be used in various ways for profit-making. For example, you can ascertain liquidity volumes and order sizes for a stock traded on Nasdaq. You can also identify trends using information about bid and ask orders.



Important information related to market makers and institutional investors is also available in Level 2 quotes. Traders can use this information to their advantage. For example, they can gauge an institutional investor's interest in a large stock from their order sizes and place identical orders. A similar strategy can be used with reserve orders, which are large orders broken into smaller-sized lots. Once they have identified hidden orders from L2 quotes, traders can place similar orders because institutional investor action will help support and resistance levels for that stock's price.


   Example Level 2 Quote  

There are six important columns in a Level 2 quote for a given stock. The first one is MMID. This column identifies the four-letter identification for market makers. The second column is Bid or the price that the market maker is willing to pay for that stock. The third column is Size. This column is the number of orders placed by the market maker at that size.



The remaining three columns on the right hand side are similar. The sole exception is Ask, which is the price that the market maker is willing to sell that stock price. Traders can use the difference between the bid and ask prices to determine pricing pressure and implement trading strategies.
What Is a Level III Quote?  

A level III quote is pricing information about a security provided by a trading service. It includes the real-time bid price, ask price, quote size, price of the last trade, size of the last trade, high price for the day, and the low price for the day. Level III gives institutions the ability to enter quotes, execute orders, and send information. Because the level III service offers a high level of market depth, it is restricted to registered Nasdaq market makers.





Key Takeaways

A level III quote is pricing information about a security provided by a trading service.A level III quote includes the real-time bid price, ask price, quote size, price of the last trade, size of the last trade, high price for the day, and the low price for the day.Level III gives institutions the ability to enter quotes, execute orders, and send information.Because level III offers a high level of market depth, it is restricted to registered Nasdaq market makers.


   Understanding Level III Quotes  

A level III quote allows a person to enter into best execution trades as prices are being updated in real-time. All publicly traded equities have a bid price and an ask price when they are bought and sold. The bid is the highest price an investor is willing to purchase a stock. The ask (offer) is the lowest price at which an investor is willing to sell a stock.



Each time a bid price or ask price is disseminated it is considered a quote. The U.S. stock market has three tiers of quotes: level I, level II, and level III. Looking at these quotes allows an investor to see how a specific stock is performing over time, as well as where the market action is consolidating.



Level I quotes provide basic price data for a security, including the best bid and ask price + size on each side.
Level II quotes provide more information than level I quotes by adding market depth. Level II typically shows up to the 5-10 best bid and offer prices.
Level III quotes add greater market depth by providing up to 20 of the best bid and ask prices. Users, primarily brokers and market makers, can also input data directly. 


   Quote Levels  

All three levels of quotes build on top of each other. Level I quotes provide investors with the highest bid and the lowest ask prices for an individual stock. This will also represent the most recent data for the particular security based on the order book in an exchange. These types of quotes are the most common and are what individual investors see when they request information from their financial services company.



Level II quotes indicate the same bid and ask information but also show the bid and ask prices for each market maker. This allows investors to identify the market maker with the lowest bid/ask spread, which is important for larger investors who conduct high volume and high-frequency trades (HFT).



Level III quotes provide all the information and services of level I and level II quotes as well as granting an investor the ability to enter or change quotes, execute orders, and send out confirmations of trades. These types of quotes are reserved for registered brokers and financial institutions. Market makers, for example, participate in level III quotes, which allows them to execute customer orders.


   Level III and Reserve and Hidden Orders  

Many electronic communication networks (ECNs), which are the automated systems that match buy and sell orders for securities, offer the ability for traders to post reserve orders and hidden orders. ECNs generally display the best available bid and ask quotes from multiple market participants, and they also automatically match and execute orders.



A reserve order option is composed of a price and display size along with the actual size. This order only shows the specific display size on Level III as it hides the true size of the entire order. Hidden orders, which give investors the option to hide large orders from the market on the ECN, function in a similar way but are often invisible on level III. This allows for more discretion in determining prices.



The best way for users to determine the status of the reserve or hidden orders is to check the time and sales for trades at the indicated prices.


   How Quote Levels Are Used  

All brokerages and financial institutions have best execution requirements on behalf of their customers. This means that they are required to provide their customers with the best stock price currently available. If a private investor, for example, wants to invest in Apple stock, they would see the level I bid and ask prices listed on their broker's online trading portal.



When the customer initiates an order to purchase the stock, the broker uses level III quotes to give that investor the best possible price. So the deeper information contained in level III quotes is used to the benefit of the investor, even though they are only seeing level I quotes.
What Are Level 1 Assets?  

Level 1 assets include listed stocks, bonds, funds, or any assets that have a regular mark-to-market mechanism for setting a fair market value. These assets are considered to have a readily observable, transparent prices, and therefore a reliable fair market value.



Level 1 assets are liquids financial assets and liabilities, such as stocks or bonds, that experience regular market pricing.Level 1 assets are the top classification based on their transparency and how reliably their fair market value can be calculated.Level 2 and 3 assets are less liquid and more difficult to quickly and correctly ascertain their fair value.


   Understanding Level 1 Assets  

Publicly traded companies must classify all of their assets based on the ease that they can be valued, with Level 1 assets being the easiest. A big part of valuing assets comes from market depth and liquidity. For developed markets, robust market activity acts as a natural price discovery mechanism. This, in turn, is a core element to market liquidity, which is a related gauge measuring a market’s ability to purchase or sell an asset without causing a significant change in the asset’s price.



Financial Accounting Standard 157 (FAS 157) established a single consistent framework for estimating fair value in the absence of quoted prices, based on the notion of an “exit price” and a three-level hierarchy to reflect the level of judgment involved in estimating fair values, ranging from market-based prices to illiquid Level 3 assets where no observable market exists and valuations have to be based on proprietary internal information, like the most recent funding round.


   Classifying Level 1 Assets  

The classification system including Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 under (FASB) Statement 157 required public companies to allocate all assets based on the reliability of fair market values.



The statement went into effect for all fiscal years after 2007 and came about largely as a result of the credit market turbulence surrounding subprime mortgages and related securitized assets like asset-backed securities (ABS). Many assets became illiquid and fair value pricing could only be done by internal estimates or other mark-to-model procedures during 2007's credit crunch. As such, regulators needed a way to inform investors about securities where value could be open to interpretation.


   Advantages of Level 1 Assets  

Level 1 assets are one way to measure the strength and reliability of an entity’s balance sheet. Because the valuation of Level 1 assets is dependable, certain businesses can enjoy incremental benefits relative to another business with fewer Level 1 assets. For example, banks, investors, and regulators look favorably on an entity with a majority of assets that have a market-based valuation because they can rely on supplied financial statements. If a business heavily uses derivatives and a majority of its assets fall into the Level 2 or 3 category, then interested parties are less comfortable with the valuation of these assets.



The issue with assets outside Level 1 is best displayed during times of distress. Naturally, during a volatile market, liquidity and market depth erode and many assets will not enjoy a reasonable price discovery mechanism. These assets then need to be valued by appraisals or according to a model. Both of these are less than perfect methods, so investors and creditors often lose confidence in reported valuations. During periods of peak uncertainty, such as during the depths of the Great Recession, Level 3 assets are especially scrutinized—with pundits calling mark-to-model methods more like mark-to-myth.
What Is a Level 2 Asset?  

Level 2 assets are financial assets and liabilities that are difficult to value. Although a fair value can be determined based on other data values or market prices, these assets do not have regular market pricing. Level 2 asset values, sometimes called "mark-to-model" assets, can be closely approximated using simple models and extrapolation methods. These methods use known, observable prices as parameters.





Key Takeaways

Level 2 assets are financial assets and liabilities that do not have regular market pricing, but whose fair value can be determined based on other data values or market prices.Level 2 assets are the middle classification based on how reliably their fair market value can be calculated.Level 2 assets are commonly held by private equity firms, insurance companies, and other financial institutions with investment arms. 


   Understanding Level 2 Assets  

Publicly traded companies are obligated to establish fair values for the assets they carry on their books. Investors rely on these fair value estimates to analyze the firm's current condition and future prospects. According to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), certain assets must be recorded at their current value, not historical cost. Publicly traded companies must also classify all of their assets based on the ease with which they can be valued in compliance with the accounting standard Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) 157. 



Three different asset levels were introduced by the U.S. FASB to bring clarity to corporations' balance sheets. Level 2 assets are the middle classification based on how reliably their fair market value can be calculated. Level 1 assets, such as stocks and bonds, are the easiest to value, while Level 3 assets can only be valued based on internal models or "guesstimates" and have no observable market prices.



Level 2 assets must be valued using market data obtained from external, independent sources. The data used could include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in inactive markets, or models with observable inputs, such as interest rates, default rates, and yield curves.



An example of a Level 2 asset is an interest rate swap. Here, the asset value can be determined based on the observed values for underlying interest rates and market-determined risk premiums. Level 2 assets are commonly held by private equity firms, insurance companies, and other financial institutions that have investment arms. 


   Real World Example of Level 2 Assets  

The Blackstone Group L.P. (BX) breaks down its Level 2 assets in the firm's 10-K and 10-Q filings for shareholders. The asset manager disclosed the following information in the filings:



"Fair value is determined through the use of models or other valuation methodologies. Financial instruments which are generally included in this category include corporate bonds and loans, including corporate bonds and loans held within CLO vehicles, government and agency securities, less liquid and restricted equity securities, and certain over-the-counter derivatives where the fair value is based on observable inputs. Senior and subordinated notes issued by CLO vehicles are classified within Level II of the fair value hierarchy."


  Observable vs. Unobservable Inputs  

Investors and analysts sometimes struggle to identify the difference between Level 2 and Level 3 assets. However, the difference is important, particularly as GAAP requires additional disclosures for Level 3 assets and liabilities.



Whether an asset or liability is Level 2 or Level 3 is dependent on the valuation inputs and whether the market data used is available to the public. Consider the following points:



Is the value supported by real market transactions?Is a price obtained from outside the organization and readily available to the public?Is the valuation distributed at regular intervals?



If the answer to any of these questions is no, the input may be considered unobservable and, as a result, Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
What Are Level 3 Assets?  

Level 3 assets are financial assets and liabilities considered to be the most illiquid and hardest to value. They are not traded frequently, so it is difficult to give them a reliable and accurate market price.



A fair value for these assets cannot be determined by using readily observable inputs or measures, such as market prices or models. Instead, they are calculated using estimates or risk-adjusted value ranges; methods open to interpretation.





Key Takeaways

Companies are required to record certain assets at their current value, rather than historical cost, and classify them as either a level 1, 2, or 3 asset, depending on how easily they can be valued.Level 3 assets are financial assets and liabilities that are considered to be the most illiquid and hardest to value. Their values can only be estimated using a combination of complex market prices, mathematical models, and subjective assumptions.Examples of Level 3 assets include mortgage-backed securities (MBS), private equity shares, complex derivatives, foreign stocks, and distressed debt.The process of estimating the value of Level 3 assets is known as mark to model.


   Understanding Level 3 Assets  

Publicly traded companies are obligated to establish fair values for the assets they carry on their books. According to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), certain assets must be recorded at their current value, not historical cost. Investors rely on these fair value estimates in order to analyze the firm's current condition and future prospects.



In 2006, the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) verified how companies were required to mark their assets to market through the accounting standard known as FASB 157 (No. 157, Fair Value Measurements). Now named Topic 820, FASB 157 introduced a classification system that aims to bring clarity to the balance sheet assets of corporations.


   Types of Assets  

The FASB 157 categories for asset valuation were given the codes Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3. Each level is distinguished by how easily assets can be accurately valued, with Level 1 assets being the easiest.


  Level 1  

Level 1 assets are those valued according to readily observable market prices. These assets can be marked to market and include Treasury Bills, marketable securities, foreign currencies, and gold bullion.


  Level 2  

These assets and liabilities do not have regular market pricing but can be given a fair value based on quoted prices in inactive markets, or models that have observable inputs, such as interest rates, default rates, and yield curves. An interest rate swap is an example of a Level 2 asset.


  Level 3  

Level 3 is the least marked to market of the categories, with asset values based on models and unobservable inputs. Assumptions from market participants are used when pricing the asset or liability, given there is no readily available market information on them. Level 3 assets are not actively traded, and their values can only be estimated using a combination of complex market prices, mathematical models, and subjective assumptions.



Examples of Level 3 assets include mortgage-backed securities (MBS), private equity shares, complex derivatives, foreign stocks, and distressed debt. The process of estimating the value of Level 3 assets is known as mark to model.



These assets received heavy scrutiny during the credit crunch of 2007 when mortgage-backed securities (MBS) suffered massive defaults and write-downs in value. The firms that owned them were often not adjusting asset values downward even though credit markets for asset-backed securities (ABS) had dried up, and all signs pointed to a decrease in fair value.


   Recording Level 3 Assets  

Past misjudgments of Level 3 asset values prompted tougher regulatory measures. Topic 820, introduced in 2009, ordered firms not just to state the value of their Level 3 assets, but also to outline how using multiple valuation techniques might have affected those values.



Then in 2011, the FASB became more stringent, demanding a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for Level 3 assets, with particular attention paid to changes in the value of existing assets as well as details on transfers of new assets into or out of Level 3 status.



More clarity on what disclosures companies must make when dealing with Level 3 assets was also provided, including requirements for “quantitative information about the unobservable inputs” used for valuation analysis, as part of a wider breakdown of valuation processes. Another addition was sensitivity analysis in order to help investors get a better handle on the risk that valuation work on Level 3 assets ends up being incorrect.



In August 2018, the FASB issued an update to topic 820, titled Accounting Standards Update 2018-13. In this guidance, effective for financial statements with fiscal years beginning on or after Dec. 15, 2019, some of its earlier rules were modified.



Companies have been asked to disclose the range and weighted average of “significant unobservable inputs” and the way they are calculated. The FASB also ordered narrative descriptions to focus on account measurement uncertainty at the reporting date, not the sensitivity to future changes.



This new approach is designed to boost transparency and comparability even further, although companies do still have considerable freedom when deciding which information is relevant and disclosable.


   Special Considerations  

Because Level 3 assets are notoriously difficult to value, the stated worth they are given for accounting purposes should not always be taken at face value by investors. Valuations are subject to interpretation, so a margin of safety needs to be factored in to account for any errors in using Level 3 inputs to value an asset.



Often, Level 3 assets make up just a small portion of a company's balance sheet. However, in some industries, such as large investment shops and commercial banks, they are more widespread.
What Is a Level Death Benefit?  

A level death benefit is a payout from a life insurance policy that is the same regardless of whether the insured person dies shortly after purchasing the policy or many years later. It can be contrasted with an increasing death benefit, which rises in value over time as the policyholder ages.



Generally speaking, life insurance policies with level death benefits will carry lower premiums than those with an increasing death benefit. However, this does not necessarily mean that level death benefits offer superior value, since inflation can reduce the level death benefit’s real value.





Key Takeaways

A level death benefit is a type of payout associated with life insurance policies.It means that the death benefit paid to the life insurance policy’s beneficiaries is fixed ahead of time, as opposed to increasing as the policyholder ages.Although level death benefits are associated with lower premiums, their value can be eroded over time due to inflation.


   How Level Death Benefits Work  

Many people purchase life insurance policies in order to provide their families with peace of mind. In exchange for paying a series of monthly insurance premiums, the policyholder can rest assured that if they die during their coverage period their beneficiaries will receive a death benefit. This can be especially important for policyholders with families, who might struggle to replace the income generated by the policyholder during their life.



When selecting life insurance policies, there are many different factors to weigh up. If the policyholder wishes to minimize their monthly insurance premium, for example, they can consider opting for a policy with a level death benefit. In that case, the amount paid to the beneficiaries upon the policyholder’s death will be set ahead of time once the life insurance policy is initiated.



If, for example, a healthy 30-year old purchases a life insurance policy with a level death benefit of $500,000, the beneficiaries will receive that $500,000 benefit regardless of whether the policyholder dies the very next day or 30 years into the future.



From the perspective of the insurance company, level death benefits are relatively low risk because they allow the insurer to know with certainty what their maximum potential liability will be. Moreover, because of inflation, the real value of the death benefit actually declines each year, meaning that the insurance company’s liability effectively reduces over time. For these reasons, level death benefits are generally less expensive than increasing death benefits


   Real World Example of a Level Death Benefit  

The decision of whether to opt for a level death benefit or an increasing death benefit will depend on several factors, including the policyholder’s personal budget and their expectations of alternative investment returns.



To illustrate, consider the case of John, a hypothetical insurance shopper. At 30 years of age, John is in perfect health and has an annual income of $70,000. After paying for his expenses, John is able to save $500 per month and is eager to purchase life insurance to help provide for his young family in case he passes away.



If John opts for a level death benefit of $500,000, then his insurance premium will be $100 per month, leaving him $400 to invest separately. John plans to leave the proceeds from his investments to his family, so that when he dies his family will receive both the $500,000 death benefit and the value of his investments at that time.






The effects of compound interest over time should not be underestimated—even relatively modest investment returns can lead to very large sums when allowed to compound over the long-term.



John calculates that if he lives for 50 more years and inflation averages 3% per year during that time frame, the real value of the $500,000 benefit at that time, after adjusting for inflation, would only be about $114,000. However, he also notes that, given his long investment horizon, he should be able to average more than a 3% annual return on the $400 he can invest each month.



If John was able to obtain an average annual return of 6%, then his monthly investments of $400 would be worth over $1.5 million in 50 years’ time. With these observations in mind, John decides to proceed with the level death benefit, with the intention of investing an additional $400 per month on his family’s behalf for the remainder of his life.
What Is Level-Premium Insurance?  

Level-premium insurance is a type of permanent or term life insurance where the premium remains the same over the policy's life. With this type of coverage, premiums are thus guaranteed to remain the same throughout the contract. For a permanent insurance policy like whole life, the amount of coverage provided increases over time.



As a result, the coverage can be advantageous over a long period of time: a policyholder keeps paying the same amount but has access to increased death benefit coverage as the policy matures.



Term policies are also often level-premium, but the overage amount will remain the same and not grow. The most common terms are 10, 15, 20, and 30 years, based on the needs of the policyholder.





Key Takeaways

Level-premium insurance is a type of life insurance in which premiums stay the same price throughout the term, while the amount of coverage offered increases.Level-premium policies may be permanent or term life.Permanent insurance like whole life with level-premiums will typically see the death benefit increase over time even as the premiums remain the same.This is because permanent life insurance accrues a cash value that adds to the death benefit amount.Term life policies will not see increasing coverage and are usually set at 10, 15, 20, and 30 years.


   How Level-Premium Insurance Works  

Level-premium insurance premiums are fixed for the life of the policy. For a term policy, this means for the length of the term (e.g. 20 or 30 years); and for a permanent policy, until the insured passes away.


  Cost of Premiums  

Level-premium policies will typically cost more up-front than annually-renewing life insurance insurance policies with terms of only one year at a time. But over the long run, level-premium payments are often more cost-effective. This is because the higher premiums have typically been offset by an increase in coverage during a period when a policyholder typically has more medical issues.


  Ages and Stages  

The amount of level premium paid on a policy will depend on one's age and health: the younger and healthier one is, the lower the level premium will be. For term life policies, the length of the term will also matter: longer-dated policies will cost more per month than shorter policies. The length of a term policy will often be selected to best suit one's specific needs.



For example, if the primary purpose of the death benefit is to provide income to support very young children and fund college expenses, a 20-year level-premium might be appropriate. However, if these children are already in their early teens, a 10-year level premium may be sufficient. If the insured is the same age, the 10-year term policy would cost less, all else equal, than the 20-year policy's premiums.






Some forms of life insurance are vulnerable to premium increases or are sensitive to interest rate changes, such as universal life or variable life policies. With level-premium insurance, premiums and the death benefit are guaranteed as long as the policy is in-force. or unless the policyholder requests a change.


   Level-Premium Term Insurance vs. Decreasing Term Life Insurance  

With level-premium term life insurance, the policy pays a benefit if the policyholder passes away during a fixed period (whatever the term of the insurance is). If death occurs outside of this term timeframe, there is no payout.



With decreasing term life insurance, the amount of coverage declines over time, similar to the way a repayment mortgage decreases over time. Decreasing term life insurance is usually purchased to pay off a specific debt, like a repayment mortgage. The policy ensures that, upon death, the repayment mortgage (or other specified debt) gets settled.



Other specialty types of life insurance include "over 50s life insurance," which is a specialized kind of insurance geared toward people between the ages of 50 and 80. There is also joint life insurance, in which two people in a relationship take out individual policies. The policy will cover both lives, usually on a first-death basis.




Level Premium Term Life Insurance



Death benefit for a fixed period
Less expensive than whole life
Can be used for specific stages and ages of life





No death benefit if policyholder dies outside of fixed period
May not be long enough to cover the policy holder for their lifetime





   Example of Level-Premium Insurance  

The age and timeframe of the policyholder are both crucial factors in determining if a guaranteed, level-premium policy is optimal (versus an annual renewable term (ART) policy, which increases as the policyholder ages).



For example, suppose two female friends, Jen and Beth, both 30 years old and in good health, opt to buy life insurance. They each seek a 30-year term with $1 million in coverage.



Jen buys a guaranteed level-premium policy at around $42 per month, with a 30-year horizon, for a total of $500 per year.
But Beth figures she may only need a plan for three-to-five years or until full payment of her current debts. Instead, she opts for a yearly renewable term (YRT) policy that starts at $20 per month and increases by 20% a year each ear. So in year 1, she pays $240 per year, 1 and around $500 by year five.



In years two through five, Jen continues to pay $500 per month, and Beth has paid an average of just $357 per year for the same $1 million of coverage. If Beth no longer needs life insurance at year five, she will have saved a lot of money relative to what Jen paid. But if Beth still thinks she needs 25 more years of life insurance coverage, she will start to be at a relative disadvantage. Each year as Beth gets older, she faces ever-higher annual premiums. Meanwhile, Jen will continue to pay $500 per year.




How Do Level-Premium Insurance Policies Work?
Life insurers are able to provide level-premium policies by essentially "over-charging" for the earlier years of the policy, collecting more than what is needed actuarially to cover the risk of the insured dying during that early period. These extra premiums are then credited toward later years when the insured is a higher risk.




What Types of Policies Are Traditionally Level-Premium Contracts?
Level-premium insurance is usually associated with term life policies or with whole life policies, which guarantee the premium will not change. Other forms of insurance like variations of universal life (UL) or annual term may be subject to changing premiums over time as circumstances change.




Why Are Premiums Higher for Permanent as Opposed to Term Insurance?
Premiums are higher for permanent insurance like whole life policies than term life for two primary reasons. The first is that the policy covers the insured for their entire life, and the second reason is that a portion of a permanent life premium is paid into the policy as cash, and can be drawn upon while the policy owner is still alive.
What Is Financial Leverage?  

Financial leverage results from using borrowed capital as a funding source when investing to expand the firm's asset base and generate returns on risk capital. Leverage is an investment strategy of using borrowed money—specifically, the use of various financial instruments or borrowed capital—to increase the potential return of an investment. Leverage can also refer to the amount of debt a firm uses to finance assets.





Key Takeaways

Leverage refers to the use of debt (borrowed funds) to amplify returns from an investment or project.Investors use leverage to multiply their buying power in the market.Companies use leverage to finance to invest in their future to increase shareholder value rather than issue stock to raise capital.There is a range of financial leverage ratios to gauge how risky a company's position is, with the most common being debt-to-assets and debt-to-equity.Misuse of leverage may have serious consequences, as there are some that believe it played a factor in the 2008 Global Financial Crisis.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Understanding Financial Leverage  

Leverage is the use of debt or borrowed capital in order to undertake an investment or project. It is commonly used as a way to boost an entity's equity base. The concept of leverage is used by both investors and companies:



Investors use leverage to significantly increase the returns that can be provided on an investment. They leverage their investments by using various instruments, including options, futures, and margin accounts. 
Companies can use leverage to finance their assets. In other words, instead of issuing stock to raise capital, companies can use debt financing to invest in business operations in an attempt to increase shareholder value.



Investors who are not comfortable using leverage directly have a variety of ways to access leverage indirectly. They can invest in companies that use leverage in the normal course of their business to finance or expand operations—without increasing their outlay.



The point and result of financial leverage is to multiply the potential returns from a project. At the same time, leverage will also multiply the potential downside risk in case the investment does not pan out. When one refers to a company, property, or investment as "highly leveraged," it means that the item has more debt than equity.






Leverage might have played a factor in the 2008 global financial crisis. Some believe that instead of settling for modest returns, investment companies and borrowers got greedy, opened leverage positions, and caused major market repercussions when their leveraged investments missed the mark.


   How to Calculate Financial Leverage  

There is an entire suite of leverage financial ratios used to calculate how much debt a company is leveraging in an attempt to maximize profits. Several common leverage ratios are listed below.


  Total-Debt-to-Total-Assets Ratio  

A company can analyze its leverage by seeing what percent of its assets have been purchased using debt. A company can subtract the total debt-to-total-assets ratio by 1 to find the equity-to-assets ratio. If the debt-to-assets ratio is high, a company has relied on leverage to finance its assets.



Total-Debt-to-Total-Assets Ratio = Total Debt ÷ Total Assets



Keep in mind that when you calculate the ratio, you're using all debt, including short- and long-term debt vehicles.


  Debt-to-Equity (D/E) Ratio  

Instead of looking at what the company owns, it can measure leverage by looking strictly at how assets have been financed. The debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is used to compare what the company has borrowed compared to what it has raised from private investors or shareholders.



Debt-to-Equity Ratio = Total Debt ÷ Total Equity



A D/E ratio greater than one means a company has more debt than equity. However, this doesn't necessarily mean a company is highly leveraged. Each company and industry typically operates in a specific way that may warrant a higher or lower ratio.



For example, start-up technology companies may struggle to secure financing and must often turn to private investors. Therefore, a debt-to-equity ratio of .5 may still be considered high for this industry compared.


  Debt-to-EBITDA Ratio  

A company can also compare its debt to how much income it makes in a given period. The company will want to know that debt in relation to operating income is controllable. That's why it is common to use EBITDA instead of net income.



A company with a high debt-to-EBITDA is carrying a high degree of weight compared to what the company makes. The higher the debt-to-EBITDA, the more leverage a company is carrying.



Debt-to-EBITDA = Total Debt ÷ Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization


  Equity Multiplier  

Debt is not directly considered in the equity multiplier. But it is inherently included as total assets and total equity each has a direct relationship with total debt. The equity multiplier attempts to understand the ownership weight of a company by analyzing how assets have been financed. A company with a low equity multiplier has financed a large portion of its assets with equity, meaning they are not highly leveraged.



Equity Multiplier = Total Assets ÷Total Equity



DuPont analysis uses the equity multiplier to measure financial leverage. One can calculate the equity multiplier by dividing a firm's total assets by its total equity. Once figured, multiply the total financial leverage by the total asset turnover and the profit margin to produce the return on equity.



For example, if a public company has total assets valued at $500 million and shareholder equity valued at $250 million, then the equity multiplier is 2.0 ($500 million ÷ $250 million). This shows the company has financed half its total assets by equity. Hence, larger equity multipliers suggest more financial leverage.


  Degree of Financial Leverage (DFL)  

Fundamental analysis uses the degree of financial leverage (DFL). The DFL is calculated by dividing the percentage change of a company's earnings per share (EPS) by the percentage change in its earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) over a period.



Degree of Financial Leverage = % Change in Earnings Per Share ÷ % Change in EBIT



The goal of DFL is to understand how sensitive a company's EPS is based on changes to operating income. A higher ratio will indicate a higher degree of leverage, and a company with a high DFL will likely have more volatile earnings.


  Consumer Leverage Ratio  

The formulas above are used by companies that are using leverage for their operations. However, households can also use leverage. By taking out debt and using personal income to cover interest charges, households may also use leverage.



Consumer Leverage is derived by dividing a household's debt by its disposable income. Households with a higher calculated consumer leverage have high degrees of debt relative to what they make and are therefore highly leveraged.



Consumer Leverage = Total Household Debt ÷ Disposable Income



Consumers may eventually find difficulty in securing loans if their consumer leverage gets too high. For example, lenders often set debt-to-income limitations when households apply for mortgage loans.






Financial ratios hold the most value when compared over time or against competitors. Be mindful when analyzing leverage ratios of dissimilar companies, as different industries may warrant different financing compositions.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Financial Leverage  
  Advantages  

Investors and traders primarily use leverage to amplify profits. Winners can become exponentially more rewarding when your initial investment is multiplied by additional upfront capital. Using leverage also allows you to access more expensive investment options that you wouldn't otherwise have access to with a small amount of upfront capital.



Leverage can be used in short-term, low-risk situations where high degrees of capital are needed. For example, during acquisitions or buyouts, a growth company may have a short-term need for capital that will result in a strong mid-to-long-term growth opportunity. As opposed to using additional capital to gamble on risky endeavors, leverage enables smart companies to execute opportunities at ideal moments with the intention of exiting their leveraged position quickly.


  Disadvantages  

If winning investments are amplified, so are losing investments. Using leverage can result in much higher downside risk, sometimes resulting in losses greater than your initial capital investment. On top of that, brokers and contract traders often charge fees, premiums, and margin rates. This means that if you lose on your trade, you'll still be on the hook for extra charges.



Leverage also has the potential downside of being complex. Investors must be aware of their financial position and the risks they inherit when entering into a leveraged position. This may require additional attention to one's portfolio and contribution of additional capital should their trading account not have a sufficient amount of equity per their broker's requirement.




Leverage

Pros

Amplifies winning investments, creating potential for big profits
Reduces barriers to entry by allowing investors to access more expensive trading opportunities
A strategic way for companies to meet short-term financing needs for acquisitions or buyouts



Cons

Amplifies losing investments by creating potential for drastic losses
More expensive than other types of trading
Results in fees, margin rates, and contract premiums regardless of the success of the trade
More complex as trading may require additional capital and time based on portfolio needs





   Financial Leverage vs. Margin  

Margin is a special type of leverage that involves using existing cash or securities position as collateral used to increase one's buying power in financial markets. Margin allows you to borrow money from a broker for a fixed interest rate to purchase securities, options, or futures contracts in anticipation of receiving substantially high returns.



You can use margin to create leverage, increasing your buying power by the total amount in your margin account. For instance, if you require $1,000 in collateral to purchase $10,000 worth of securities, you would have a 1:10 margin or 10x leverage.


   Examples of Financial Leverage  

A company was formed with a $5 million investment from investors, where the equity in the company is $5 million, which is the money the company can use to operate. If the company uses debt financing by borrowing $20 million, it now has $25 million to invest in business operations and more opportunities to increase value for shareholders.



An automaker, for example, could borrow money to build a new factory. The new factory would enable the automaker to increase the number of cars it produces and increase profits. Instead of being limited to only the $5 million from investors, the company now has five times the amount to use for the company's growth.



These types of leveraged positions occur all the time in financial markets. For example, Apple (AAPL) issued $4.7 billion of Green Bonds for the third time in March 2022. By using debt funding, Apple could expand low-carbon manufacturing and create recycling opportunities while using carbon-free aluminum. A strategy like this works when greater revenue is generated compared to the cost of the bonds.




What Is Financial Leverage?
Financial leverage is the strategic endeavor of borrowing money to invest in assets. The goal is to have the return on those assets exceed the cost of borrowing funds that paid for those assets. The goal of financial leverage is to increase an investor's profitability without requiring to have them use additional personal capital.




What Is an Example of Financial Leverage?
An example of financial leverage is buying a rental property. If the investor only puts 20% down, they borrow the remaining 80% of the cost to acquire the property from a lender. Then, the investor attempts to rent the property out, using rental income to pay the principal and debt due each month. If the investor can cover its obligation by the income it receives, it has successfully utilized leverage to gain personal resources (i.e. ownership of the house) and potential residual income.




How Is Financial Leverage Calculated?
Financial leverage can be calculated a number of different ways. There is a suite of financial ratios referred to as leverage ratios that analyze the level of indebtedness a company experiences against various assets. The two most common financial leverage ratios are debt-to-equity (total debt/total equity) and debt-to-assets (total debt/total assets).




What Is a Good Financial Leverage Ratio?
Every investor and company will have a personal preference for what makes a good financial leverage ratio. Some investors are risk-averse and want to minimize their level of debt. Other investors see leverage as an opportunity and access to capital that can amplify their profits.In general, a debt-to-equity ratio greater than one means a company has decided to take out more debt as opposed to finance through shareholders. Though this isn't inherently bad, it means the company might have greater risk due to inflexible debt obligations. The company may also experience greater costs to borrow should it seek another loan again in the future. However, more profit is retained by the owners as their stake in the company is not diluted among a large number of shareholders.




Why Is Financial Leverage Important?
Financial leverage is important as it creates opportunities for investors. That opportunity comes with risk, and it is often advised that new investors get a strong understanding of what leverage is and what potential downsides are before entering leveraged positions. Financial leverage can be used strategically to position a portfolio to capitalize on winners and suffer even more when investments turn sour.


   The Bottom Line  

There are several ways that individuals, and companies can boost their equity base. Financial leverage is one of these methods. Financial leverage involves borrowing money to fuel growth. This capital can come from banks and lenders or from shareholders. While borrowing money may allow for growth by, for example, allowing entities to purchase assets, there are risks involved. As such, it's important to compared the advantages and disadvantages, and determine whether financial leverage truly makes sense.
What Is a Leverage Ratio?  

A leverage ratio is any one of several financial measurements that look at how much capital comes in the form of debt (loans) or assesses the ability of a company to meet its financial obligations. The leverage ratio category is important because companies rely on a mixture of equity and debt to finance their operations, and knowing the amount of debt held by a company is useful in evaluating whether it can pay off its debts as they come due. Several common leverage ratios are discussed below.





Key Takeaways

A leverage ratio is any one of several financial measurements that assesses the ability of a company to meet its financial obligations.A leverage ratio may also be used to measure a company's mix of operating expenses to get an idea of how changes in output will affect operating income. Common leverage ratios include the debt-equity ratio, equity multiplier, degree of financial leverage, and consumer leverage ratio.Banks have regulatory oversight on the level of leverage they are can hold.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   What Does a Leverage Ratio Tell You?  

Too much debt can be dangerous for a company and its investors. However, if a company's operations can generate a higher rate of return than the interest rate on its loans, then the debt may help to fuel growth. Uncontrolled debt levels can lead to credit downgrades or worse. On the other hand, too few debts can also raise questions. A reluctance or inability to borrow may be a sign that operating margins are tight.



There are several different ratios that may be categorized as a leverage ratio, but the main factors considered are debt, equity, assets, and interest expenses.



A leverage ratio may also be used to measure a company's mix of operating expenses to get an idea of how changes in output will affect operating income. Fixed and variable costs are the two types of operating costs; depending on the company and the industry, the mix will differ. 



Finally, the consumer leverage ratio refers to the level of consumer debt compared to disposable income and is used in economic analysis and by policymakers.


  Banks and Leverage Ratios  

Banks are among the most leveraged institutions in the United States. The combination of fractional-reserve banking and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) protection has produced a banking environment with limited lending risks.



To compensate for this, three separate regulatory bodies, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the Comptroller of the Currency, review and restrict the leverage ratios for American banks.﻿﻿ This means they restrict how much money a bank can lend relative to how much capital the bank devotes to its own assets. The level of capital is important because banks can "write down" the capital portion of their assets if total asset values drop. Assets financed by debt cannot be written down because the bank's bondholders and depositors are owed those funds.



Banking regulations for leverage ratios are complicated. The Federal Reserve created guidelines for bank holding companies, although these restrictions vary depending on the rating assigned to the bank. In general, banks that experience rapid growth or face operational or financial difficulties are required to maintain higher leverage ratios.﻿﻿



There are several forms of capital requirements and minimum reserve placed on American banks through the FDIC and the Comptroller of the Currency that indirectly impacts leverage ratios. The level of scrutiny paid to leverage ratios has increased since the Great Recession of 2007 to 2009 when banks that were "too big to fail" were a calling card to make banks more solvent. These restrictions naturally limit the number of loans made because it is more difficult and more expensive for a bank to raise capital than it is to borrow funds. Higher capital requirements can reduce dividends or dilute share value if more shares are issued.



For banks, the tier 1 leverage ratio is most commonly used by regulators.


   Leverage Ratios for Evaluating Solvency and Capital Structure  

Perhaps the most well known financial leverage ratio is the debt-to-equity ratio.


  The Debt-to-Equity (D/E) Ratio  

This is expressed as:



﻿




Debt-to-Equity Ratio


=




Total Liabilities




Total Shareholders’ Equity





\text{Debt-to-Equity Ratio} = \frac{\text{Total Liabilities}}{\text{Total Shareholders' Equity}}


Debt-to-Equity Ratio=Total Shareholders’ EquityTotal Liabilities​﻿



For example, United Parcel Service's long-term debt for the quarter ending December 2019 was $21.8 billion. United Parcel Service's total stockholders' equity for the ending December 2019 was $3.3 billion. The company's D/E for the quarter was 8.62. That is considered high.﻿﻿



A high debt/equity ratio generally indicates that a company has been aggressive in financing its growth with debt. This can result in volatile earnings as a result of the additional interest expense. If the company's interest expense grows too high, it may increase the company's chances of a default or bankruptcy.



Typically, a D/E ratio greater than 2.0 indicates a risky scenario for an investor; however, this yardstick can vary by industry. Businesses that require large capital expenditures (CapEx), such as utility and manufacturing companies, may need to secure more loans than other companies. It's a good idea to measure a firm's leverage ratios against past performance and with companies operating in the same industry to better understand the data. Fedex has a D/E ratio of 1.78, so there is cause for concern where UPS is concerned. However, most analysts consider that UPS earns enough cash to cover its debts.


  The Equity Multiplier  

The equity multiplier is similar, but replaces debt with assets in the numerator: 



﻿




Equity Multiplier


=




Total Assets




Total Equity





\text{Equity Multiplier} = \frac{\text{Total Assets}}{\text{Total Equity}}


Equity Multiplier=Total EquityTotal Assets​﻿



For example, assume that Macy's (NYSE: M) has assets valued at $19.85 billion and stockholder equity of $4.32 billion. The equity multiplier would be:



﻿




$


1


9


.


8


5


 billion


÷


$


4


.


3


2


 billion


=


4


.


5


9



\$19.85 \text{ billion} \div \$4.32 \text{ billion} = 4.59


$19.85 billion÷$4.32 billion=4.59﻿



Although debt is not specifically referenced in the formula, it is an underlying factor given that total assets includes debt.



Remember that Total Assets = Total Debt + Total shareholders' Equity. The company's high ratio of 4.59 means that assets are mostly funded with debt than equity. From the equity multiplier calculation, Macy's assets are financed with $15.53 billion in liabilities.



The equity multiplier is a component of the DuPont analysis for calculating return on equity (ROE):       



﻿















DuPont analysis


=


N


P


M


×


A


T


×


E


M
















where:
















N


P


M


=


net profit margin
















A


T


=


asset turnover
















E


M


=


equity multiplier








\begin{aligned} &\text{DuPont analysis} = NPM \times AT \times EM\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &NPM=\text{net profit margin}\\ &AT=\text{asset turnover}\\ &EM=\text{equity multiplier}\\ \end{aligned}


​DuPont analysis=NPM×AT×EMwhere:NPM=net profit marginAT=asset turnoverEM=equity multiplier​﻿


  The Debt-to-Capitalization Ratio  

An indicator that measures the amount of debt in a company’s capital structure is the debt-to-capitalization ratio, which measures a company’s financial leverage. It is calculated as:



﻿















Total debt to capitalization


=




(


S


D


+


L


D


)




(


S


D


+


L


D


+


S


E


)


















where:
















S


D


=


short-term debt
















L


D


=


long-term debt
















S


E


=


shareholders’ equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{Total debt to capitalization} = \frac{(SD + LD)}{(SD + LD + SE)}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &SD=\text{short-term debt}\\ &LD=\text{long-term debt}\\ &SE=\text{shareholders' equity}\\ \end{aligned}


​Total debt to capitalization=(SD+LD+SE)(SD+LD)​where:SD=short-term debtLD=long-term debtSE=shareholders’ equity​﻿



In this ratio, operating leases are capitalized and equity includes both common and preferred shares. Instead of using long-term debt, an analyst may decide to use total debt to measure the debt used in a firm's capital structure. The formula, in this case, would include minority interest and preferred shares in the denominator.


  Degree of Financial Leverage   

Degree of financial leverage (DFL) is a ratio that measures the sensitivity of a company’s earnings per share (EPS) to fluctuations in its operating income, as a result of changes in its capital structure. It measures the percentage change in EPS for a unit change in earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and is represented as:



﻿















D


F


L


=




%


 change in 


E


P


S




%


 change in 


E


B


I


T


















where:
















E


P


S


=


earnings per share
















E


B


I


T


=


earnings before interest and taxes








\begin{aligned} &DFL = \frac{\% \text{ change in }EPS}{\% \text{ change in }EBIT} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EPS=\text{earnings per share}\\ &EBIT=\text{earnings before interest and taxes}\\ \end{aligned}


​DFL=% change in EBIT% change in EPS​where:EPS=earnings per shareEBIT=earnings before interest and taxes​﻿



DFL can alternatively be represented by the equation below:



﻿




D


F


L


=




E


B


I


T




E


B


I


T


−


interest





DFL = \frac{EBIT}{EBIT - \text{interest}}


DFL=EBIT−interestEBIT​﻿



This ratio indicates that the higher the degree of financial leverage, the more volatile earnings will be. Since interest is usually a fixed expense, leverage magnifies returns and EPS. This is good when operating income is rising, but it can be a problem when operating income is under pressure.


  The Consumer Leverage Ratio  

The consumer leverage ratio is used to quantify the amount of debt the average American consumer has relative to their disposable income.



Some economists have stated that the rapid increase in consumer debt levels has been a contributing factor to corporate earnings growth over the past few decades. Others blamed the high level of consumer debt as a major cause of the great recession.



﻿




Consumer leverage ratio


=




Total household debt




Disposable personal income





\text{Consumer leverage ratio} = \frac{\text{Total household debt}}{\text{Disposable personal income}}


Consumer leverage ratio=Disposable personal incomeTotal household debt​﻿



Understanding how debt amplifies returns is the key to understanding leverage. Debt is not necessarily a bad thing, particularly if the debt is taken on to invest in projects that will generate positive returns. Leverage can thus multiply returns, although it can also magnify losses if returns turn out to be negative.


  The Debt-To-Capital Ratio  

The debt-to-capital ratio is a measurement of a company's financial leverage. It is one of the more meaningful debt ratios because it focuses on the relationship of debt liabilities as a component of a company's total capital base. Debt includes all short-term and long-term obligations. Capital includes the company's debt and shareholders' equity.



This ratio is used to evaluate a firm's financial structure and how it is financing operations. Typically, if a company has a high debt-to-capital ratio compared to its peers, it may have a higher default risk due to the effect the debt has on its operations. The oil industry seems to have about a 40% debt-to-capital threshold. Above that level, debt costs increase considerably.


  The Debt-To-EBITDA Leverage Ratio  

The debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio measures a company's ability to pay off its incurred debt. Commonly used by credit agencies, this ratio determines the probability of defaulting on issued debt. Since oil and gas companies typically have a lot of debt on their balance sheets, this ratio is useful in determining how many years of EBITDA would be required to pay back all the debt. Typically, it can be alarming if the ratio is over 3, but this can vary depending on the industry.


  The Debt-To-EBITDAX Ratio  

Another variation of the debt-to-EBITDA ratio is the debt-to-EBITDAX ratio, which is similar, except EBITDAX is EBITDA before exploration costs for successful efforts companies. This ratio is commonly used in the United States to normalize different accounting treatments for exploration expenses (the full cost method versus the successful efforts method).



Exploration costs are typically found in the financial statements as exploration, abandonment, and dry hole costs. Other noncash expenses that should be added back in are impairments, accretion of asset retirement obligations, and deferred taxes.


  The Interest Coverage Ratio  

Another leverage ratio concerned with interest payments is the interest coverage ratio. One problem with only reviewing the total debt liabilities for a company is they do not tell you anything about the company's ability to service the debt. This is exactly what the interest coverage ratio aims to fix.



This ratio, which equals operating income divided by interest expenses, showcases the company's ability to make interest payments. Generally, a ratio of 3.0 or higher is desirable, although this varies from industry to industry.


  The Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio  

Times interest earned (TIE), also known as a fixed-charge coverage ratio, is a variation of the interest coverage ratio. This leverage ratio attempts to highlight cash flow relative to interest owed on long-term liabilities.



To calculate this ratio, find the company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), then divide by the interest expense of long-term debts. Use pre-tax earnings because interest is tax-deductible; the full amount of earnings can eventually be used to pay interest. Again, higher numbers are more favorable.
What Is a Leveraged Buyback?  

A leveraged buyback is a corporate finance transaction that enables a company to repurchase some of its shares using debt—reducing the number of shares outstanding increases the remaining owners' respective shares.



Also known as a leveraged share repurchase, a leveraged buyback has similar impacts as leveraged recapitalizations and dividend recapitalizations, in which companies employ leverage to pay a one-time dividend. The difference is that dividend recapitalizations do not change the ownership structure.





Key Takeaways

A leveraged buyback is a financial transaction that lets a company repurchase some of its stock by using debt. The process boosts the remaining owners' shares by limiting the number of shares that are outstanding.Companies sometimes use leveraged buybacks to protect themselves from hostile takeovers by having extra debt on their balance sheets.More often, the purpose of these kinds of buybacks is to increase earnings per share and improve other financial metrics.The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 includes an excise tax of 1% on certain share buybacks.


   How a Leveraged Buyback Works  

Theoretically, leveraged buybacks should have no immediate impact on a company's share price, net of any tax benefits from the new capital structure, and higher interest payments. But the extra debt provides an incentive for management to be more disciplined and improve operational efficiency through cost-cutting and downsizing, in order to meet larger interest and principal payments; a justification for the extreme levels of debt in leveraged buyouts.



Leveraged buybacks are sometimes used by companies with excess cash to decapitalize their balance sheets to avoid overcapitalization. Increasing the debt on the balance sheet can provide shark repellant protection from hostile takeovers.



But more often than not, leveraged buybacks, like other share repurchases, are simply used to increase earnings per share (EPS), return on equity (ROE), and price-to-book (P/E) ratio.






Don't confuse a leveraged buyback with a leveraged buyout. While the former involves the repurchase of corporate shares, the latter involves the use of debt to acquire another company.


   Leveraged Buybacks and EPS  

Boosting EPS through leveraged buybacks can be an effective tool for companies to use, but it does not signify an improvement in underlying performance or value. It can even do damage to the business if financial engineering comes at the expense of not investing capital productively for the long term.



Executives say there are not enough investment opportunities. But there is clearly a big conflict of interest, given that executive compensation is linked to EPS in most American companies.



Financial markets have rewarded companies using buybacks as a substitute for improving operational performance. So it is no wonder that buybacks became one of Wall Street's favorite tools since the global financial crisis.



Between 2008 and 2018, companies in the United States spent over $5 trillion buying back their own stock, or over half their profits. And for large companies like Procter & Gamble, Mondelez, and Eli Lilly, approximately 40% of EPS growth has been a result of buybacks.






Buybacks are a mixed bag, they can increase EPS and improve other financial metrics but also put a firm's credit ratings at risk.


   Leveraged Buyback Returns  

In 2017, leveraged buybacks were reported to have made a big comeback in the U.S., where share repurchases have exceeded free cash flow since 2014. They were also used to avoid having to repatriate cash and pay U.S. taxes.



The buyback boom increased the risk for both bondholders and shareholders. Even investment-grade companies were willing to sacrifice their credit ratings in order to reduce the number of shares. For example, McDonald’s, whose executives depend on EPS metrics as a component of their performance incentive payout, had borrowed so heavily to fund buybacks that its credit rating fell from A to BBB between 2016 and 2018.



Rising interest rates can impact leveraged buybacks. But so could politicians. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was signed into law by President Joe Biden on Aug. 16, 2022, includes an excise tax of 1% on share buybacks that exceed $1 million after Dec. 31, 2022.



Senate Democrats strongly criticized the buyback boom, arguing that Trump's tax reform didn't trickle down to workers. They wanted to regulate buybacks, which were seen as a form of market manipulation before the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) gave them the green light in 1982 when it adopted Rule 10b-18. That protected corporations from charges of stock market manipulation if buybacks on any given day are no more than 25% of the previous four weeks’ average daily trading volume.


   Biden 2023 State of the Union Address  

In his State of the Union address in February 2023, President Biden said he would propose quadrupling the tax on corporate stock buybacks. It was not clear from his statements whether such a proposal would also impact leveraged buybacks. Further, analysts like EvercoreISI strategist Tobin Marcus suggested that the likelihood of the passage of a buyback tax was low. Still, investors may keep future buyback-related legislation in mind when developing strategies.



Biden's announcement follows a Dec. 2021 push from SEC Commissioner Allison Herren Lee in support of corporate share repurchase policies enhancing transparency "by requiring more detailed, timely, and structured disclosures" of buybacks.




What are leveraged buybacks?
Leveraged buybacks are a form of stock repurchase in which a corporation repurchases a quantity of its shares by leveraging its own debt.




What is the impact of a leveraged buyback?
There are many potential effects of a leveraged buyback. The earnings per share for the company may increase as a result of the overall reduction of the total number of outstanding shares. Companies can also use leveraged buybacks to fend of hostile takeovers by increasing their debt.




What is on the horizon for leveraged buyback regulation?
In the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 there is a 1% excise tax on buybacks exceeding $1 million as of Jan. 1, 2023. President Biden also announced in his Feb. 2023 State of the Union address that he would propose quadrupling the tax on corporate stock repurchases, although this is yet to be officially announced and it is unclear whether it would apply to leveraged buybacks specifically.


   The Bottom Line  

Leveraged buybacks are corporate finance transactions through which a company repurchases a quantity of its shares using debt. With added debt, many companies that complete a leveraged buyback also institutes cost-cutting or downsizing measures. Leveraged repurchases are often used to increase a corporation's earnings per share buy reducing the overall number of shares outstanding. This does not fundamentally impact the company's underlying performance or value. This technique can also help to decapitalize a balance sheet. Buybacks in general have been a target of the Biden administration, first through a 1% excise tax in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 and more recently via comments the president made in the 2023 State of the Union address.
What Is a Leveraged Buyout?  

A leveraged buyout (LBO) is the acquisition of another company using a significant amount of borrowed money (bonds or loans) to meet the cost of acquisition. The assets of the company being acquired are often used as collateral for the loans, along with the assets of the acquiring company.





Key Takeaways

A leveraged buyout (LBO) occurs when the acquisition of another company is completed almost entirely with borrowed funds.Leveraged buyouts declined in popularity after the 2008 financial crisis, but they are once again on the rise.In an LBO, there is usually a ratio of 90% debt to 10% equity.LBOs have acquired a reputation as a ruthless and predatory business tactic, especially since the target company's assets can be used as leverage against it.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Leveraged Buyouts (LBOs)  

In a leveraged buyout (LBO), there is usually a ratio of 90% debt to 10% equity. Because of this high debt/equity ratio, the bonds issued in the buyout are usually not investment grade and are referred to as junk bonds.



LBOs have garnered a reputation for being an especially ruthless and predatory tactic, as the target company doesn't usually sanction the acquisition. Aside from being a hostile move, there is a bit of irony to the process in that the target company's success, in terms of assets on the balance sheet, can be used against it as collateral by the acquiring company.






The purpose of leveraged buyouts is to allow companies to make large acquisitions without having to commit a lot of capital.



LBOs are conducted for three main reasons:



To take a public company private
To spin off a portion of an existing business by selling it
To transfer private property, as is the case with a change in small business ownership



However, it is usually a requirement that the acquired company or entity, in each scenario, is profitable and growing.



Leveraged buyouts have had a notorious history, especially in the 1980s, when several prominent buyouts led to the eventual bankruptcy of the acquired companies. This was mainly due to the fact that the leverage ratio was nearly 100% and the interest payments were so large that the company's operating cash flows were unable to meet the obligation.


   Example of Leveraged Buyouts  

One of the largest LBOs on record was the acquisition of Hospital Corp. of America (HCA) by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR), Bain & Co., and Merrill Lynch in 2006. The three companies valued HCA at around $33 billion.



Although the number of such large acquisitions has declined following the 2008 financial crisis, large-scale LBOs began to rise during the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, a group of financiers led by Blackstone Group announced a leveraged buyout of Medline that valued the medical equipment manufacturer at $34 billion.




How Does a Leveraged Buyout (LBO) Work?
A leveraged buyout (LBO) is when one company attempts to buy another company, borrowing a large amount of money to finance the acquisition. The acquiring company issues bonds against the combined assets of the two companies, meaning that the assets of the acquired company can actually be used as collateral against it. Although often viewed as a predatory or hostile action, large-scale LBOs experienced a resurgence in the early 2020s.




Why Do LBOs Happen?
Leveraged buyouts (LBOs) are commonly used to make a public company private or to spin off a portion of an existing business by selling it. They can also be used to transfer private property, such as a change in small business ownership. The main advantage of a leveraged buyout is that the acquiring company can purchase a much larger company, leveraging a relatively small portion of its own assets.




What Type of Companies Are Attractive for LBOs?
Equity firms typically target mature companies in established industries for leveraged buyouts rather than fledgling or more speculative industries. The best candidates for LBOs typically have strong, dependable operating cash flows, well-established product lines, strong management teams, and viable exit strategies so that the acquirer can realize gains.


   The Bottom Line  

A leveraged buyout (LBO) refers to the process of one company acquiring another using mostly borrowed funds to carry out the transaction. Firms often carry out LBOs to take a company private or to spin off part of an existing business. The ratio of debt to equity is generally around 90% to 10%, which generally translates to lower credit ratings for the bonds issued in the buyout.



Leveraged buyouts are often seen as a predatory business tactic because the target company has little control over approving the deal, and its own assets can be used as leverage against it. LBOs declined following 2008 financial crisis but have seen increased activity in recent years.
What Is a Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (LESOP)?  

A leveraged employee stock ownership plan (LESOP) is an employee compensation program in which the sponsoring company leverages its own credit and borrows the money used to fund the plan and purchase shares from the company's treasury. These shares are then used for the stock ownership plan (ESOP), with the company subsequently paying back the original loan with annual contributions.





Key Takeaways

A leveraged employee stock ownership plan (LESOP) uses borrowed money to fund an ESOP as a form of equity compensation for employees.The company borrows against its assets and then repays the loan used to fund the ESOP via annual contributions.The benefit of a LESOP is that a company does not need to expend cash up-front to fund the ESOP.However, since it involves taking on a large amount of debt, it must be executed with caution.


   Understanding Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plans (LESOPs)  

Typically, companies choose to use ESOPs or other equity compensation programs to tie a portion of their employees' interests to the bottom-line share price performance of the company's stock. In this way, participating employees are given an incentive to ensure the company's operations run as smoothly and profitably as possible.






Companies often use ESOPs as a corporate finance strategy to align the interests of their employees with those of their shareholders.



By leveraging company assets, the business can provide for its stock ownership plan and give workers ownership interest in the company without immediately putting up all the capital required to do so.



LESOPs use the proceeds of bank loans to purchase company stock from the company or its existing shareholders at a sale price established by independent appraisers. The lending bank holds the purchased shares as collateral and typically requires payment guarantees from either the company, the remaining shareholders, or the selling shareholders.


   Tax Considerations  

LESOPs serve as a tax-advantaged method of financing corporate growth because shares allocated to an employee's account are not taxed until distributions are received, which generally occurs after an employee ends their tenure with a company.



Due to deduction limitations dictated under tax laws, employer contributions made to make annual loan payments may not exceed 25% of a participating employee's annual compensation. Additionally, a company may limit LESOP participation to employees who are over age 21, and who have completed at least one year of service.


   Potential Downsides to a Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (LESOP)  

Despite the tax-deferred benefit participating LESOP employees enjoy, this plan isn’t without potential downsides—chief among them: an inherent investment risk.



Since a LESOP functions as a substitution for other types of qualified retirement plans, they may lack the diversification of a typical retirement portfolio, such as a 401(k) plan, and be too concentrated in company stock. Employees who reach the age of 55, and have completed at least ten years of participation in a LESOP, are permitted to diversify 50% of their accounts, over five years, in investments other than their own company’s stock.



Additionally, since a LESOP involves borrowing it can mar a young company's debt-to-income (DTI) or debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio, making it appear as a less attractive investment than it may otherwise be. Moreover, if a company cannot repay its LESOP debts, the lender can seize the assets put up as collateral.
What Is a Leveraged ETF?  

A leveraged exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a marketable security that uses financial derivatives and debt to amplify the returns of an underlying index. While a traditional exchange-traded fund typically tracks the securities in its underlying index on a one-to-one basis, a leveraged ETF may aim for a 2:1 or 3:1 ratio.



Leveraged ETFs are available for most indexes, such as the Nasdaq 100 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA).





Key Takeaways

A leveraged exchange-traded fund (ETF) uses financial derivatives and debt to amplify the returns of an underlying index.While a traditional ETF typically tracks the securities in its underlying index on a one-to-one basis, a leveraged ETF may aim for a 2:1 or 3:1 ratio.Leverage is a double-edged sword meaning it can lead to significant gains, but can also lead to significant losses.


   Leveraged ETFs Explained  

ETFs are funds that contain a basket of securities that are from the index that they track. For example, ETFs that track the S&P 500 Index will contain the 500 stocks in the S&P. Typically, if the S&P moves 1%, the ETF will also move by 1%.



A leveraged ETF that tracks the S&P might use financial products and debt that magnify each 1% gain in the S&P to a 2% or 3% gain. The extent of the gain is contingent on the amount of leverage used in the ETF. Leveraging is an investing strategy that uses borrowed funds to buy options and futures to increase the impact of price movements.



However, leverage can work in the opposite direction as well and lead to losses for investors. If the underlying index falls by 1%, the loss is magnified by the leverage. Leverage is a double-edged sword meaning it can lead to significant gains, but it can also lead to significant losses. Investors should be aware of the risks of leveraged ETFs since the risk of losses is far higher than those from traditional investments.



The management fees and transaction costs associated with leveraged ETFs can diminish the fund's return.


   The Leverage in Leveraged ETFs  

A leveraged ETF might use derivatives—such as options contracts—to magnify the exposure to a particular index. It does not amplify the annual returns of an index but instead tracks the daily changes. Options contracts grant an investor ability to trade an underlying asset without the obligation that they must buy or sell the security. Options contracts have an expiration date by which any action must be completed.



Options have upfront fees—known as premiums—associated with them and allow investors to buy a large number of shares of a security. As a result, options layered with investment, such as stocks, can add to the gains of holding the stock investment. In this way, leveraged ETFs use options to add to the gains of traditional ETFs. Portfolio managers can also borrow to buy additional shares of securities, further adding to their positions but also adding to the potential for gains.



A leveraged inverse ETF uses leverage to make money when the underlying index is declining in value. In other words, an inverse ETF rises while the underlying index is falling, allowing investors to profit from a bearish market or market declines.


   The Costs of Leverage  

Along with management and transaction fee expenses, there can be other costs involved with leveraged exchange-traded funds. Leveraged ETFs have higher fees than non-leveraged ETFs because premiums need to be paid to buy the options contracts as well as the cost of borrowing—or margining. Many leveraged ETFs have expense ratios of 1% or more.



Despite the high expense ratios associated with leveraged ETFs, these funds are often less expensive than other forms of margin. Trading on margin involves a broker lending money to a customer so that the borrower can purchase stocks or other securities with the securities held as collateral for the loan. The broker also charges an interest rate for the margin loan.



For example, short selling, which involves borrowing shares from a broker to bet on a downward move, can carry fees of 3% or more on the amount borrowed. The use of margin to buy stock can become similarly expensive, and can result in margin calls should the position begin losing money. A margin call happens when a broker asks for more money to shore up the account if the collateral securities lose value.


   Leveraged ETFs as Short-term Investments  

Leveraged ETFs are typically used by traders who wish to speculate on an index, or to take advantage of the index's short-term momentum. Due to the high-risk, high-cost structure of leveraged ETFs, they are rarely used as long-term investments.



For example, options contracts have expiration dates and are usually traded in the short term. It is difficult to hold long-term investments in leveraged ETFs because the derivatives used to create the leverage are not long-term investments. As a result, traders often hold positions in leveraged ETFs for just a few days or less. If leveraged ETFs are held for long periods, the returns may be quite different from the underlying index.





Pros

Leveraged ETFs offer the potential for significant gains that exceed the underlying index.
Investors have a wide variety of securities to trade using leveraged ETFs.
Investors can make money when the market is declining using inverse leveraged ETFs.



Cons

Leveraged ETFs can lead to significant losses that exceed the underlying index.
Leveraged ETFs have higher fees and expense ratios as compared to traditional ETFs.
Leveraged ETFs are not long-term investments.





   Real World Example of a Leveraged ETF  

The Direxion Daily Financial Bull 3x Shares (FAS) ETF holds equities of large U.S. financial companies by tracking the Russell 1000 Financial Services index. It has an expense ratio of 0.99% and top holdings include Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B), Visa (V) and JP Morgan Chase (JPM). The ETF aims to provide investors 3xs the return for the financial stocks it tracks.﻿﻿



If an investor, for example, invested $10,000 in the ETF and the stocks tracked from the index rose by 1%, the ETF would return 3% in that period. However, if the underlying index declined by 2%, the FAS would have a loss of 6% for that period.



As stated earlier, leveraged ETFs are used for short-term moves in the market and can result in large gains or losses very quickly for investors.
What Is a Leveraged Lease?  

A leveraged lease is a lease agreement that is financed through the lessor with help from a third-party financial institution. In a leveraged lease, an asset is rented with borrowed funds.


   Understanding Leveraged Leases  

Leveraged leases are most often used in the renting of assets planned for short-term use. Assets like cars, trucks, construction vehicles and business equipment are typically all available through the option of leveraged leasing. Leasing in general means a company or individual will be renting an asset.



Leasing any type of asset gives an entity the right to use the asset for a short-term. In general, the entity is only renting the asset although many leveraged leases offer a buyout option at the end of the lease term.



The leveraged aspect of a leveraged lease involves borrowing funds to pay for the high cost of the asset’s value. A leveraged lease is usually used when an entity does not have the funds to buy the asset outright nor do they necessarily want to keep the asset for a long-term. A leveraged lease allows a lessee to obtain a loan for the leased asset’s value during the lease term and repay the loan over the life of the lease. The amount needed for the loan can be lower than buying the asset outright because the lessee is only paying for a specified value associated with the length of time on the lease.






Accounting standards require a business to differentiate and account for leased assets differently depending on whether the lease is an operating lease or leveraged/capital lease.


  Leverage Lease Structure  

Leverage leases can be more complex than a basic operating lease because leverage is involved. The structure of the leveraged lease terms will depend on the lessor and their financing relationships. The lessor may also be the financing institution who provides the loan in which case they approve the loan for the borrower.



The lessor may also work with a third party lender. In this case, the third-party lender provides the borrowed funds to the lessor on your behalf allowing you to take possession of the asset as soon as a loan is approved. In some cases, a lessor may put up some funds combined with borrowed funds from a third party which can help to improve the overall terms of the lease.



Once a leveraged lease is approved and agreed on, the borrower takes possession of the asset and is responsible for making regularly scheduled payments toward the loan balance. The asset’s title is usually held by either the lessor or the lender depending on the structure. Regardless, a leveraged lease doesn’t involve the transfer of the title to the lessee during the lease period.



Keep in mind that a leveraged lease is usually backed by a secured loan. This means that if a lessee stops making payments, the lessor can repossess the asset.


   Leasing vs. Financing  

Leveraged leasing and leveraged financing are typically the two main options for any person or company buying a car or other high-value asset. A leveraged lease provides a loan that covers an estimated value of a car over the leasing timeframe. Leveraged lease payments can potentially be lower because the loan does not cover the full value of the car.



An entity can also have the option to finance a car, in this scenario the car loan is similar to a home loan. The buyer of the car obtains a loan for the full value of the car and payments are created over a longer timeframe for repaying the car loan.





Key Takeaways

Leveraged leases allow an entity to rent an asset for a specified amount of time using borrowed funds.A leveraged lease is usually used when an entity does not have the funds to buy the asset outright nor do they necessarily want to keep the asset for a long-term.In business accounting, a leveraged lease is referred to as a capital lease and specific accounting standards are required.


   Special Considerations: Accounting for Leveraged Leases  

Individuals usually do not need to worry about the accounting standards for leasing an asset with leverage but this would be a factor for a business. In business accounting, leveraged leases are referred to as capital leases.



To determine the difference, four criteria are used:



The life of the lease is 75% or more of the asset's useful life.
The lease includes a bargain purchase option whereby the lessee can purchase the asset at a lower price in the future than its fair value.
The lessee gains ownership at the end of the lease period.
The present value of the lease payments is greater than 90% of the asset's market value.



If any one of these criteria is met, then the lease is considered a capital lease, and if not then the lease is considered an operating lease. Capital leases generally involve accounting for the leased asset similarly to an asset purchase. Operating lease accounting will generally require entries for the lease payments as operating expenses.


   Operating Lease vs. Leveraged/Capital Lease  

Individuals or business entities may encounter the differences in an operating lease vs. a leveraged/capital lease. In general, an operating lease does not include any options for buying the asset being rented. Common types of operating lease agreements include apartment leases and building leases.



Leveraged/capital leases are important to differentiate from operating leases in business accounting since accounting principles have different standards for the two.
What Is a Leveraged Loan?  

A leveraged loan is one that is extended to companies or individuals that already have considerable amounts of debt or a poor credit history. Lenders consider leveraged loans to carry a higher risk of default, and as a result, a leveraged loan is more costly to the borrower.



Leveraged loans for companies or individuals with debt tend to have higher interest rates than typical loans. These rates reflect the higher level of risk involved in issuing the loans.





Key Takeaways


A leveraged loan is a type of loan extended to companies or individuals that have considerable amounts of debt or poor credit history.
Lenders consider leveraged loans to carry a higher risk of default, and as a result, are more costly to the borrowers.
Leveraged loans have higher interest rates than typical loans, which reflect the increased risk involved in issuing the loans.



   Understanding Leveraged Loans  

A leveraged loan is structured, arranged, and administered by at least one commercial or investment bank. These institutions are called arrangers and subsequently may sell the loan, in a process known as syndication, to other banks or investors to lower the risk to lending institutions.



There are no set rules or criteria for defining a leveraged loan. Some market participants base it on a spread. For instance, many of the loans pay a floating rate, often based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which replaced the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) in June 2023, or another benchmark, plus a stated basis or ARM margin.  In general, the adjustment of the credit spread adds basis points to the interest rate on a loan to make up for the fact that SOFR has traded below LIBOR.



If the ARM margin is above a certain level, it is considered a leveraged loan. Others base the classification on the borrower's credit rating, with loans rated below investment grade, which is categorized as Ba3, BB-, or lower by the rating agencies Moody’s and S&P.



Typically, banks are allowed to change the terms when syndicating the loan, which is called price flex. The ARM margin can be raised if demand for the loan is insufficient at the original interest level in what is referred to as upward flex. Conversely, the spread over SOFR can be lowered, which is called reverse flex, if demand for the loan is high.


   How Do Businesses Use Leveraged Loans?  

Companies typically use a leveraged loan to finance mergers and acquisitions (M&A), recapitalize the balance sheet, refinance debt, or for general corporate purposes.



M&A could take the form of a leveraged buyout (LBO). An LBO occurs when a company or private equity company purchases a public entity and takes it private. Typically, debt is used to finance a portion of the purchase price. A recapitalization of the balance sheet occurs when a company uses the capital markets to change the composition of its capital structure. A common transaction in this process issues debt to buy back stock or pay a dividend, which are cash rewards paid to shareholders.





Note

Leveraged loans allow companies or individuals that have high debt or poor credit history to borrow cash, though at higher interest rates than usual.


   Example of a Leveraged Loan  

S&P’s Leveraged Commentary & Data (LCD), which is a provider of leveraged loan news and analytics, places a loan in its leveraged loan universe if the loan is rated BB- or lower.



Alternatively, a loan that is nonrated or BBB- or higher is often classified as a leveraged loan if it is secured by a first or second lien.




What Is a Leveraged Loan?
A leveraged loan is a type of loan made to borrowers with high levels of debt or a low credit rating. Lenders consider leveraged loans to carry a higher-than-average risk that the borrower will be unable to pay back the loan (also known as the risk of default). These loans generally earn higher interest rates for lenders because of the higher level of risk.




What Is the Difference Between a Bank Loan and a Leveraged Loan?
Leveraged loans—also known as floating-rate loans or bank loans—are loans made by banks or other financial institutions that are then sold to investors. Companies may use the money they get to refinance their debt, fund mergers and acquisitions, or finance projects. The companies that receive these loans typically have credit ratings that are below investment grade. They are secured by collateral such as the borrower's real estate and equipment, or by intellectual property including brands, trademarks, and customer lists.




How Do Funds Invest in Leveraged Loans?
Investment funds (such as mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, or ETFs) may hold leveraged loans in their portfolios, depending on their investment strategy. Some funds may make a small investment in leveraged loans as part of a diverse portfolio, while other funds may invest heavily in these loans. Fund portfolio managers may be interested in purchasing these loans because their higher interest rates could mean a higher return for investors in the fund.  


   The Bottom Line  

A leveraged loan is extended to companies or individuals that have considerable amounts of debt or poor credit history. Lenders consider leveraged loans to carry a higher risk of default, and as a result, make them more costly to the borrowers with higher interest rates than typical loans, reflecting the increased risk involved in issuing the loans.



There are no set rules for defining a leveraged loan. Some market participants base it on a spread, calculating a floating rate based on a benchmark called SOFR, in addition to a basis or ARM margin.
What Is a Leveraged Loan Index (LLI)?  

A leveraged loan index (LLI) is a market-weighted index that tracks the performance of institutional leveraged loans. Several indexes for the market exist, but the most widely followed one is the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.



A leveraged loan is a senior secured debt obligation that is rated below investment grade (i.e., part of the high-yield or "junk" bond market). Leveraged loans are issued to finance leveraged buyouts (LBOs), and most of the loans are traded in the secondary market. The leveraged loan index tracks the prices of the loans.





Key Takeaways

A leveraged loan index (LLI) tracks the performance of institutional leveraged loans on a market-weighted basis.A leveraged loan is a type of credit facility that is extended to companies or individuals that already have considerable amounts of debt or a poor credit historyThe fixed-income securities tracked by an LLI will be riskier and higher-yield than investment-grade benchmark bond indices.


   How a Leveraged Loan Index Works  

A leveraged loan is structured, arranged, through a process known as syndication. Loan syndication is the process of bringing together a group of lenders in funding various portions of a loan for a single borrower, often to diversify the credit risk exposure of any single lender. This version of a leveraged loan index is a common benchmark and represents the 100 largest and most liquid issues of the institutional loan universe.



The most popular leveraged loan index (LLI) was developed by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and the Loan Syndications and Trading Association (LSTA). A sub-index assembled by S&P and LSTA is the U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 B/BB Rating Index, while S&P has a Global Leveraged Loan 100 Index on its own to include major issuers in Europe. The indexes are rebalanced twice per year. IHS Markit Ltd. and Credit Suisse also maintain proprietary leveraged loan indexes.


   Leveraged Loan Indices in Practice  

An LLI serves as a benchmark for performance measurement of fund managers dedicated to leveraged loan investment strategies and as a basis for passive investment vehicles such as exchange traded funds (ETF).



For example, the Invesco Senior Loan Portfolio (ticker: BKLN) is based on the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index. According to Invesco, the asset management company that offers BKLN, the fund invests at least 80% of its total assets in the constituent securities that make up the leveraged loan index, which tracks the market-weighted performance of the component loans based on market weightings, spreads, and interest payments. If less than 100% of the assets are invested in the component securities of the index, there will be variability in the performance of the ETF versus the index.


   LLIs and CDSs  

Some LLIs are tailored to derivatives products that utilize leveraged loans. For instance, the iTraxx LevX are a pair of two tradable indexes that hold credit default swaps (CDSs) representing a diversified basket of the 40 (formerly 35) most liquid European companies that have tradable debt offerings in the secondary market.



The LevX indices track what are known as leveraged loan credit default swaps (LCDS). The iTraxx LevX Senior Index represents only senior loans, while the iTraxx LevX Subordinated Index represents subordinated debt including second- and third-lien loans.
What Is Leveraged Recapitalization?  

A leveraged recapitalization is a corporate finance transaction in which a company changes its capitalization structure by replacing the majority of its equity with a package of debt securities consisting of both senior bank debt and subordinated debt. A leveraged recapitalization is also referred to as leveraged recap. In other words, the company will borrow money in order to buy back shares that were previously issued, and reduce the amount of equity in its capital structure. Senior managers/employees may receive additional equity, in order to align their interests with the bondholders and shareholders.



Usually, a leveraged recapitalization is used to prepare the company for a period of growth, since a capitalization structure that leverages debt is more beneficial to a company during growth periods. Leveraged recapitalizations are also popular during periods when interest rates are low since low interest rates can make borrowing money to pay off debt or equity more affordable for companies.



Leveraged recapitalizations differ from leveraged dividend recapitalizations. In dividend recapitalizations, the capital structure remains unchanged because only a special dividend is paid.


   Understanding Leveraged Recapitalization  

Leveraged recapitalizations have a similar structure to that employed in leveraged buyouts (LBO), to the extent that they significantly increase financial leverage. But unlike LBOs, they may remain publicly traded. Shareholders are less likely to be impacted by leveraged recapitalizations as compared to new stock issuances because issuing new stocks can dilute the value of existing shares, while borrowing money does not. For this reason, leveraged recapitalizations are looked upon more favorably by shareholders.



They are sometimes used by private equity firms to exit some of their investment early or as a source of refinancing. And they have similar impacts to leveraged buybacks unless they are dividend recapitalizations. Using debt can provide a tax shield—which might outweigh the extra interest expense. This is known as the Modigliani-Miller theorem, which shows that debt provides tax benefits not accessible via equity. And leveraged recaps can increase earnings per share (EPS), return on equity and the price to book ratio. Borrowing money to pay off older debts or buy back stock also helps companies avoid the opportunity cost of doing so with earned profits.



Like LBOs, leveraged recapitalizations provide incentives for management to be more disciplined and improve operational efficiency, in order to meet larger interest and principal payments. They are often are accompanied by a restructuring, in which the company sells off assets that are redundant or no longer a strategic fit in order to reduce debt. However, the danger is that extremely high leverage can lead a company to lose its strategic focus and become much more vulnerable to unexpected shocks or a recession. If the current debt environment changes, increased interest expenses could threaten corporate viability.


   History of Leveraged Recapitalization  

Leveraged recapitalizations were especially popular in the late 1980s when the vast majority of them were used as a takeover defense in mature industries that do not require substantial ongoing capital expenditures to remain competitive. Increasing the debt on the balance sheet, and thus a company’s leverage acts as a shark repellant protection from hostile takeovers by corporate raiders.
What Is Levered Free Cash Flow (LFCF)?  

Levered free cash flow (LFCF) is the amount of money a company has left remaining after paying all of its financial obligations. LFCF is the amount of cash a company has after paying debts, while unlevered free cash flow (UFCF) is cash before debt payments are made. Levered free cash flow is important because it is the amount of cash that a company can use to pay dividends and make investments in the business.





Key Takeaways

Levered free cash flow (LFCF) is the money left over after all a company's bills are paid.A company can have a negative levered free cash flow even if operating cash flow is positive.A company may choose to use its levered free cash flow to pay dividends, buy back stock, or reinvest in the business.Unlevered free cash flow (UFCF) is cash before debt payments are made.


   Formula and Calculation of Levered Free Cash Flow  













Levered Free Cash Flow (LFCF) Formula.
 Investopedia



Where:



EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization
ΔNWC = Change in net working capital
CapEx = Capital expenditures
D = Mandatory debt payments


   What Levered Free Cash Flow (LFCF) Can Tell You  

Levered free cash flow is a measure of a company's ability to expand its business and to pay returns to shareholders (dividends or buybacks) via the money generated through operations. It may also be used as an indicator of a company's ability to obtain additional capital through financing.



If a company already has a significant amount of debt and has little in the way of a cash cushion after meeting its obligations, it may be difficult for the company to obtain additional financing from a lender. If, however, a company has a healthy amount of levered free cash flow, it then becomes a more attractive investment and a low-risk borrower.



Even if a company's levered free cash flow is negative, it does not necessarily indicate that the company is failing. It may be the case that the company has made substantial capital investments that have yet to start paying off.



As long as the company is able to secure the necessary cash to survive until its cash flow increases a temporary period of negative levered free cash flow is both survivable and acceptable.



What a company chooses to do with its levered free cash flow is also important to investors. A company may choose to devote a substantial amount of its levered free cash flow to dividend payments or for investment in the company. If, on the other hand, the company's management perceives an important opportunity for growth and market expansion, it may choose to devote nearly all of its levered free cash flow to funding potential growth.


   Levered Free Cash Flow (LFCF) vs. Unlevered Free Cash Flow (UFCF)  

Levered free cash flow is the amount of cash a business has after paying debts and other obligations. Unlevered free cash flow is the amount of cash a company has prior to making its debt payments. UFCF is calculated as EBITDA minus CapEx minus working capital minus taxes.



LFCF is the cash flow available to pay shareholders, while UFCF is the money available to pay shareholders and debtholders. Levered free cash flow is considered the more important figure for investors to watch as it's a better indicator of a company's profitability.
What Is a Levy?  

A levy is the legal seizure of property to satisfy an outstanding debt. If you fail to pay your taxes, the Internal Revenue Service may respond by levying your tax return or property. Tax authorities can also levy other assets, such as bank accounts, rental income, or retirement accounts.





Key Takeaways

Levies are the legal means by which a taxing authority or a bank can seize property for the payment of a debt.Properties that can be seized in a levy are both real–such as cash, cars, and houses–as well as intangible and held by someone else, like future wages.A levy is different from a lien because a levy takes the property to satisfy the tax debt, whereas a lien is a claim used as security for the tax debt.While private creditors need a court order to levy property, federal agencies like the IRS do not.A levy is distinct from a garnishment, where a court orders an employer to direct part of your salary to a creditor.


   How a Levy Works  

Levies can be exercised by either a tax authority–such as a state treasury or the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)–or a bank.



A levy is different from a lien because a levy takes the property to satisfy the tax debt, whereas a lien is a claim used as security for the tax debt. In other words, while a lien secures the government’s interest or claim to an individual’s or business’s property when the tax debt remains unpaid, a levy actually permits the government to seize and sell the property to pay the tax debt.


  Tax Levy  

The Internal Revenue Code (IRC) authorizes levies to collect delinquent tax payments to the federal government. However, certain procedures must be followed and requirements met before enforcing a levy. In the U.S., for example, the IRS must first assess the tax and send a Notice and Demand for Payment (a tax bill) to an individual owing federal taxes.



If the individual still neglects or refuses to pay the tax, the IRS will send a Final Notice of Intent to Levy and Notice of Your Right to a Hearing (a levy notice). This is typically sent at least 30 days prior to the levy and can be given in person, dropped at the tax debtor's home or place of business, or mailed to the individual's last known address.



In the U.S., the IRS has the authority to levy an individual's property to satisfy a tax debt. Property that can be levied includes real property like cash in a bank account, a house, car, or boat.



Intangible property and property belonging to the individual that is held by someone else can also be levied. This includes wages, retirement accounts, dividends, bank accounts, licenses, rental income, accounts receivables, commissions, or the cash loan value of a life insurance policy.



As a measure of last resort, the taxing authority may impose a federal tax lien to inform other creditors of the taxing authority’s legal right to a taxpayer’s assets and property. A tax lien goes up on the debtor’s credit report and remains there for up to15 years if it remains unpaid. If the taxes remain unpaid, the tax authority can use a tax levy to legally seize the taxpayer's assets (such as bank accounts, investment accounts, automobiles, and real property) to collect the money it is owed. The IRS is also authorized to garnish the taxpayer’s wages until the debt is paid off.



A state tax levy applies to unpaid state taxes. Note that the IRS can also levy a debtor’s state tax refund, in which case, he may receive a Notice of Levy on Your State Tax Refund and a Notice of Your Right to Hearing after the levy.



For federal contractors, the IRS does not need to provide any notification of the levy until after the tax levy is applied.






Private creditors must win a monetary judgment before levying a bank account. However, the IRS can levy an account without a court order.


  Bank Levy  

A creditor that obtains a court judgment against a debtor may be able to have the court issue a bank levy.



The bank levy usually freezes the bank account(s) of the debtor until all the outstanding debt is repaid in full, dependent on the court's ruling. If the levy is not lifted, the creditor can take the money from the bank account and apply it to the total debt owed.



A bank levy is not a one-time event. A creditor can request a bank levy as many times as needed until the debt has been satisfied as per the terms of the court judgment. In addition, most banks charge a fee to their customers for processing a levy on their accounts.



A bank levy can occur due to either unpaid taxes or unpaid debt. Some types of accounts, such as Social Security Income, Supplemental Security Income, Veteran’s Benefits, and child support payments, generally cannot be levied. However, a debtor who owes money to the federal government would not have as much protection as he would if he owed a private creditor.


  Green Levy  

A green levy is a tax on greenhouse gases or other sources of pollution. These levies are intended to incentivize environmentally-friendly behaviors by raising the costs on polluting businesses. Carbon taxes are among the most common green levies, but many local governments have also sought to reduce plastic waste by raising the price of plastic shopping bags.


  Mill Levy  

A mill levy or mill tax is a property tax, based on the assessed value of real estate. These taxes are typically used by local governments to allocate funding for school districts or parks. Every year, each property in the district is valued by a tax assessor, and taxation is allocated on a percentage basis.


   Levy vs. Garnishment  

A levy is distinct from a garnishment, another means that the IRS or other creditors can use to secure repayment. Whereas a levy allows creditors to withdraw money from a bank account, a garnishment is when a court instructs a third party (usually an employer) to redirect a portion of a debtor's wages or income.



Both garnishments and levies are available to private creditors, as well as the government. However, federal agencies like the IRS do not need a court order in order to levy or garnish a person's assets.



Other creditors must provide proof of the unpaid debt and acquire a court order for the wages or other income to be garnished. Garnishments are frequently used to pursue defaulted loans or delinquent child support. Debtors may be entitled to some relief, if the garnishment would cause them financial hardship.


   Examples of a Levy  

The IRS provides sample case scenarios for levies and what you can do.


  How to Avoid a Levy  

The best way to avoid a levy is prevention: file your returns on time and pay your taxes when they are due. If you need more time to file, you can request an extension, and if you can't make a full payment, contact the IRS and arrange to pay the balance in installments.





Don't Ignore Tax Levy Notices

Don’t ignore IRS billing notices. They don't go away, and in extreme cases, delinquent tax bills can lead to time in prison.



There are different ways to make tax payments. You may be able to set up a payment plan or settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. In some cases, there may also be other options.



If you do not work with the IRS to resolve your tax debt and respond to their billing notices, the IRS may levy your property. Even if you think you do not owe the tax bill, you should contact the IRS.



If you receive an IRS bill titled "Final Notice, Notice of Intent to Levy and Your Right to A Hearing," contact the IRS right away. Call the number on your billing notice, or individuals may contact the IRS at 1-800-829-1040; businesses may contact the IRS at 1-800-829-4933.


  What If Someone Else's Bank Account Was Levied for My Taxes?  

The IRS proposes a couple of hypothetical scenarios for levies that may be removed. One is a situation where Person Number One is listed as a signer on Person Number Two's bank account, and Person Number One's property is levied by the IRS. For example, a son is a signer on his elderly mother's bank account to help her pay her bills, but a levy has been put on his property for some reason.



The IRS says the mother or her power of attorney should call the IRS at the telephone number shown on Form 668-A(C)DO and be prepared to explain why the funds in the bank account are the property of the mother. The IRS may ask for substantiation that the mother is the owner of funds in a bank account.


  How to Recover Money Lost Due to IRS Error  

In the second hypothetical scenario, the IRS has levied a person's bank account after they have fully paid all of their tax liability. The bank charged the taxpayer a $100 fee for processing the levy, and the taxpayer would like to recover the fee for $100 from the IRS.



The IRS may reimburse a taxpayer for bank charges caused by erroneous levies by submitting Form 8546, Claim for Reimbursement of Bank Charges, to the IRS address on the taxpayer's copy of the levy. To be eligible to recover bank charges from the IRS, all of the following conditions must be satisfied:



The IRS must have caused the error.The taxpayer must not have contributed to continuing or compounding the error.Before the levy, the taxpayer must have responded in a timely way to contacts and given information requested to establish the taxpayer's position.


   The Bottom Line  

A levy is one of several available means to secure repayment for overdue taxes or unpaid loans. Levies can also refer to other kinds of taxes, that may be used to support government programs.




Which Constitutional Amendment Gave Congress the Power to Levy an Income Tax?
The Sixteenth Amendment allows Congress to collect direct income taxes without regard to state census counts. Prior to the amendment's passage in 1909, income taxes could only be allocated among the states based on their population. Until the 16th amendment was ratified, federal revenues largely came from customs duties and excise taxes.




How Can You Stop a Levy on Your Bank Account?
The simplest way to avoid a bank account levy is to repay the debt that prompted the levy in the first place, but this is easier said than done. However, there are other legal ways to escape a bank levy. If you can prove that the levy was due to an error on the creditor's part, or that you were the victim of identity theft, you may be able to have your account access restored. You may also be able to contest the debt or declare bankruptcy, although this will likely require the help of a debt relief attorney.




How Often Can the IRS Levy My Bank Account?
There is no limit to the number of levies the IRS can place in order to collect unpaid taxes. However, there are limits to what they can take–the IRS can only levy up to 15% of Social Security benefits, and it cannot levy veterans' benefits. In addition, the IRS may release a levy if the lost funds would create an undue economic hardship.




What Is an Ad Valorem Tax Levy?
An ad valorem tax is a tax levied on the assessed value of a piece of property, usually real estate or a vehicle. The phrase "ad valorem" means "according to value," so these tax burdens are distributed among the community according to the value of each taxpayer's property. These taxes are a major source of revenue for local governments and school districts.




How Much Can Child Support Levy From My Bank Account?
Laws vary from state to state, but each state can levy bank accounts for unpaid alimony or child support. However, there are limits to the amount that can be garnished. Under Title III of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, courts can garnish no more than 60% of a worker's disposable earnings, unless they are supporting a spouse or child, in which case the limit is only 50%. An additional 5% may be taken if the worker is more than 12 weeks behind in payments.
What Is a Liability?  

A liability is something a person or company owes, usually a sum of money. Liabilities are settled over time through the transfer of economic benefits including money, goods, or services.



Recorded on the right side of the balance sheet, liabilities include loans, accounts payable, mortgages, deferred revenues, bonds, warranties, and accrued expenses.



Liabilities can be contrasted with assets. Liabilities refer to things that you owe or have borrowed; assets are things that you own or are owed.





Key Takeaways

A liability (generally speaking) is something that is owed to somebody else.Liability can also mean a legal or regulatory risk or obligation.In accounting, companies book liabilities in opposition to assets.Current liabilities are a company's short-term financial obligations that are due within one year or a normal operating cycle (e.g. accounts payable).Long-term (non-current) liabilities are obligations listed on the balance sheet not due for more than a year.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How Liabilities Work  

In general, a liability is an obligation between one party and another not yet completed or paid for. In the world of accounting, a financial liability is also an obligation but is more defined by previous business transactions, events, sales, exchange of assets or services, or anything that would provide economic benefit at a later date. Current liabilities are usually considered short-term (expected to be concluded in 12 months or less) and non-current liabilities are long-term (12 months or greater).



Liabilities are categorized as current or non-current depending on their temporality. They can include a future service owed to others (short- or long-term borrowing from banks, individuals, or other entities) or a previous transaction that has created an unsettled obligation. The most common liabilities are usually the largest like accounts payable and bonds payable. Most companies will have these two line items on their balance sheet, as they are part of ongoing current and long-term operations.



Liabilities are a vital aspect of a company because they are used to finance operations and pay for large expansions. They can also make transactions between businesses more efficient. For example, in most cases, if a wine supplier sells a case of wine to a restaurant, it does not demand payment when it delivers the goods. Rather, it invoices the restaurant for the purchase to streamline the drop-off and make paying easier for the restaurant.



The outstanding money that the restaurant owes to its wine supplier is considered a liability. In contrast, the wine supplier considers the money it is owed to be an asset.






Liability may also refer to the legal liability of a business or individual. For example, many businesses take out liability insurance in case a customer or employee sues them for negligence.


  Other Definitions of Liability  

Generally, liability refers to the state of being responsible for something, and this term can refer to any money or service owed to another party. Tax liability, for example, can refer to the property taxes that a homeowner owes to the municipal government or the income tax he owes to the federal government. When a retailer collects sales tax from a customer, they have a sales tax liability on their books until they remit those funds to the county/city/state.



Liability can also refer to one's potential damages in a civil lawsuit.


   Types of Liabilities  

Businesses sort their liabilities into two categories: current and long-term. Current liabilities are debts payable within one year, while long-term liabilities are debts payable over a longer period. For example, if a business takes out a mortgage payable over a 15-year period, that is a long-term liability. However, the mortgage payments that are due during the current year are considered the current portion of long-term debt and are recorded in the short-term liabilities section of the balance sheet.


  Current (Near-Term) Liabilities  

Ideally, analysts want to see that a company can pay current liabilities, which are due within a year, with cash. Some examples of short-term liabilities include payroll expenses and accounts payable, which include money owed to vendors, monthly utilities, and similar expenses. Other examples include:



Wages Payable: The total amount of accrued income employees have earned but not yet received. Since most companies pay their employees every two weeks, this liability changes often.
Interest Payable: Companies, just like individuals, often use credit to purchase goods and services to finance over short time periods. This represents the interest on those short-term credit purchases to be paid.
Dividends Payable: For companies that have issued stock to investors and pay a dividend, this represents the amount owed to shareholders after the dividend was declared. This period is around two weeks, so this liability usually pops up four times per year, until the dividend is paid.
Unearned Revenues: This is a company's liability to deliver goods and/or services at a future date after being paid in advance. This amount will be reduced in the future with an offsetting entry once the product or service is delivered.
Liabilities of Discontinued Operations: This is a unique liability that most people glance over but should scrutinize more closely. Companies are required to account for the financial impact of an operation, division, or entity that is currently being held for sale or has been recently sold. This also includes the financial impact of a product line that is or has recently been shut down.


  Non-Current (Long-Term) Liabilities  

Considering the name, it’s quite obvious that any liability that is not near-term falls under non-current liabilities, expected to be paid in 12 months or more. Referring again to the AT&T example, there are more items than your garden variety company that may list one or two items. Long-term debt, also known as bonds payable, is usually the largest liability and at the top of the list.



Companies of all sizes finance part of their ongoing long-term operations by issuing bonds that are essentially loans from each party that purchases the bonds. This line item is in constant flux as bonds are issued, mature, or called back by the issuer.



Analysts want to see that long-term liabilities can be paid with assets derived from future earnings or financing transactions. Bonds and loans are not the only long-term liabilities companies incur. Items like rent, deferred taxes, payroll, and pension obligations can also be listed under long-term liabilities. Other examples include:



Warranty Liability: Some liabilities are not as exact as AP and have to be estimated. It’s the estimated amount of time and money that may be spent repairing products upon the agreement of a warranty. This is a common liability in the automotive industry, as most cars have long-term warranties that can be costly.
Contingent Liability Evaluation: A contingent liability is a liability that may occur depending on the outcome of an uncertain future event.
Deferred Credits: This is a broad category that may be recorded as current or non-current depending on the specifics of the transactions. These credits are basically revenue collected before it is recorded as earned on the income statement. It may include customer advances, deferred revenue, or a transaction where credits are owed but not yet considered revenue. Once the revenue is no longer deferred, this item is reduced by the amount earned and becomes part of the company's revenue stream.
Post-Employment Benefits: These are benefits an employee or family members may receive upon his/her retirement, which are carried as a long-term liability as it accrues. In the AT&T example, this constitutes one-half of the total non-current total second only to long-term debt. With rapidly rising health care and deferred compensation, this liability is not to be overlooked.
Unamortized Investment Tax Credits (UITC): This represents the net between an asset's historical cost and the amount that has already been depreciated. The unamortized portion is a liability, but it is only a rough estimate of the asset’s fair market value. For an analyst, this provides some details of how aggressive or conservative a company is with its depreciation methods.


   Liabilities vs. Assets  

Assets are the things a company owns—or things owed to the company—and they include tangible items such as buildings, machinery, and equipment as well as intangible items such as accounts receivable, interest owed, patents, or intellectual property.



If a business subtracts its liabilities from its assets, the difference is its owner's or stockholders' equity. This relationship can be expressed as follows:








Assets


−


Liabilities


=


Owner’s Equity



\text{Assets}-\text{Liabilities}=\text{Owner's Equity}


Assets−Liabilities=Owner’s Equity



However, in most cases, this accounting equation is commonly presented as such:








Assets


=


Liabilities


+


Equity



\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Equity}


Assets=Liabilities+Equity


   Liabilities vs. Expenses  

An expense is the cost of operations that a company incurs to generate revenue. Unlike assets and liabilities, expenses are related to revenue, and both are listed on a company's income statement. In short, expenses are used to calculate net income. The equation to calculate net income is revenues minus expenses.



For example, if a company has had more expenses than revenues for the past three years, it may signal weak financial stability because it has been losing money for those years.



Expenses and liabilities should not be confused with each other. One—the liabilities—are listed on a company's balance sheet, and the other is listed on the company's income statement. Expenses are the costs of a company's operation, while liabilities are the obligations and debts a company owes. Expenses can be paid immediately with cash, or the payment could be delayed which would create a liability.


   Example of Liabilities  

As a practical example of understanding a firm's liabilities, let's look at a historical example using AT&T's (T) 2020 balance sheet. The current/short-term liabilities are separated from long-term/non-current liabilities on the balance sheet.













AT&T clearly defines its bank debt that is maturing in less than one year under current liabilities. For a company this size, this is often used as operating capital for day-to-day operations rather than funding larger items, which would be better suited using long-term debt.



Like most assets, liabilities are carried at cost, not market value, and under generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) rules can be listed in order of preference as long as they are categorized. The AT&T example has a relatively high debt level under current liabilities. With smaller companies, other line items like accounts payable (AP) and various future liabilities like payroll, taxes will be higher current debt obligations.



AP typically carries the largest balances, as they encompass the day-to-day operations. AP can include services, raw materials, office supplies, or any other categories of products and services where no promissory note is issued. Since most companies do not pay for goods and services as they are acquired, AP is equivalent to a stack of bills waiting to be paid.




How Do I Know If Something Is a Liability?
A liability is something that is borrowed from, owed to, or obligated to someone else. It can be real (e.g. a bill that needs to be paid) or potential (e.g. a possible lawsuit).A liability is not necessarily a bad thing. For instance, a company may take out debt (a liability) in order to expand and grow its business. Or, an individual may take out a mortgage to purchase a home.




How Are Current Liabilities Different From Long-Term (Noncurrent) Ones?
Companies will segregate their liabilities by their time horizon for when they are due. Current liabilities are due within a year and are often paid for using current assets. Non-current liabilities are due in more than one year and most often include debt repayments and deferred payments.




How Do Liabilities Relate to Assets and Equity?
The accounting equation states that—assets = liabilities + equity. As a result, we can re-arrange the formula to read liabilities = assets - equity. Thus, the value of a firm's total liabilities will equal the difference between the values of total assets and shareholders' equity. If a firm takes on more liabilities without accumulating additional assets, it must result in a reduction in the value of the firm's equity position.




What Is a Contingent Liability?
A contingent liability is an obligation that might have to be paid in the future, but there are still unresolved matters that make it only a possibility and not a certainty. Lawsuits and the threat of lawsuits are the most common contingent liabilities, but unused gift cards, product warranties, and recalls also fit into this category.




What Are Examples of Liabilities That Individuals or Households Have?
Like businesses, an individual's or household's net worth is taken by balancing assets against liabilities. For most households, liabilities will include taxes due, bills that must be paid, rent or mortgage payments, loan interest and principal due, and so on. If you are pre-paid for performing work or a service, the work owed may also be construed as a liability.
What Is a Liability-Driven Investment?  

A liability-driven investment (LDI) is an investment in assets that can generate the cash to pay for financial obligations (liabilities).



This type of investing is common with defined-benefit pension plans because companies and pension funds are obligated to provide the guaranteed income promised to the beneficiaries. With the largest pension plans, liabilities frequently climb to billions of dollars.





Key Takeaways


A liability-driven investment provides cash needed to meet financial obligations (liabilities).
Liability-driven investments are common for defined-benefit pension plans and insurance companies that guarantee payouts, now and in the future.
Liability-driven investing involves managing the risks of interest rate fluctuations and market volatility.
The disadvantage of LDIs is that they offer lower returns compared to riskier investments such as equities.
Individuals and companies can both put liability-driven investing strategies to use.



   Understanding Liability-Driven Investments  

The goal of investing in LDIs is to make sure that an investor with long-term financial commitments such as a pension fund or insurance company has the income-generating assets it needs to satisfy its financial obligations (e.g., payouts to plan participants and customers making claims).



Thus liability-driven investing focuses on matching the cash flow generated by assets to the cash flow required by liabilities and then minimizing risks that could affect returns, such as those associated with interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. Hedging strategies involving derivatives can be used to help reduce this risk.



Because the objective of these portfolios is to generate income and mitigate risk, the returns typically are lower than those offered by portfolios with a more aggressive, higher risk approach to investing,



Investment professionals who construct liability-driven investment portfolios must examine their firm's or client's liabilities, propose the right asset allocation, select the appropriate investments, and monitor the portfolios carefully, being sure to make changes when necessary.


   Types of Liability-Driven Investments  

These investments must be able to provide the income required by the liabilities as well as potential protection against interest rate risk, market volatility, and the risk posed by inflation. Types of liability-driven investments include:



Government bonds
Inflation-linked bonds
Corporate bonds
Derivatives for hedging purposes
Real estate
Infrastructure projects


   Liability-Driven Investing for Individual Investors  

For a retiree, a liability-driven investment strategy starts with estimating the amount of income they'll need for each future year. All potential income, including Social Security benefits, is deducted from the yearly amount that the retiree needs. Any shortfall equals what the retiree will have to withdraw from their retirement portfolio annually.



The yearly withdrawals then become the liabilities that the LDI strategy must focus on. The retiree must invest in a manner that provides the necessary cash flow, accounting for extra or unexpected spending, inflation, and other incidental expenses that may arise.






The interest in liability-driven investing took hold with urgency when more common investment strategies failed during the various financial upheavals of the early 2000s.


   Liability-Driven Investing for Institutional Investors  

For an institution such as a pension fund or pension plan, the focus must be placed on investments that generate enough cash flow to satisfy liabilities, which are the payments guaranteed to pensioners. And, the strategy must include ways to minimize risk.



Some strategies that involve mitigating risk and capturing greater returns could include:


  Cash Flow Matching  

Duration Matching



Duration matching involves building a portfolio of assets with a duration that aligns with the duration of the liabilities. If interest rates move in a direction that hurts the value of the assets, that can be mitigated by the effect on the liabilities. Duration matching thus can help reduce the sensitivity of the portfolio's value to changes in interest rates.


  Immunization  

Immunization



Immunization takes another approach to duration matching, with the same goal of mitigating the effect of a change in interest rates on the value of a portfolio and on an investor's liabilities.


  Risk Reduction  

Interest Rate Hedges



Interest rate hedging involves the use of financial instruments such as financial futures or interest rate swaps to safeguard the value of a portfolio from the effect of interest rate movements.



For example, an interest rate swap can exchange a fixed interest rate for a floating rate (or vice versa) to reduce a portfolio's exposure to changes in interest rates.



Inflation Hedges



To counteract the value-eroding effect of inflation, a portfolio can include investments such as inflation-linked bonds, real estate, and infrastructure. These are assets that can perform well during periods of increasing inflation and protect portfolio returns.


  Higher Returns  

Debt Investments



By including in a portfolio fixed-income securities such as corporate bonds and other debt securities that have a higher risk than Treasuries, investors may be able to capture higher yields.






The objective of liability-driven investments isn't necessarily a high return but rather a return from assets that matches the financial obligations of liabilities.


   Examples of LDI Strategies  

If an investor needs an additional $10,000 in income beyond what Social Security payments provide, they can implement an LDI strategy by purchasing bonds that will provide at least $10,000 in annual interest payments.



Alternately, an investor can use an LDI approach that splits investment into two buckets; one, a fixed-income investment for consistent returns and the other, a higher risk equity investment. The greater returns offered by equities could be moved into the fixed income allocation over time.




How Did Liability-Driven Investing Start?
It goes back to the day when defined-benefit pension plans were in abundance and companies had to meet their financial guarantees to the beneficiaries of those plans.




Who Uses LDIs?
In addition to pension funds, other investors that use them include foundations, endowments, insurance companies, and even individual investors who want to ensure guaranteed income for their retirement and manage investment risk.




Do Liability-Driven Investment Portfolios Usually Include Equities?
They can be included depending on the investor's tolerance for risk but many portfolios don't have them, due to their greater risk. The main goal of an LDI is to match assets to liabilities and manage risk so that income is available to satisfy specific financial obligations. Investments that offer high returns can potential interfere with with goal, if their risk is too great.


   The Bottom Line  

A liability-driven investment is an investment that can ensure that financial obligations can be met. Liability-driven investing involves matching assets, which produce cash flow, to the liabilities requiring cash.



While individual investors can put LDI investing to good use, a pension fund with billions of dollars of liabilities is a perfect example of the type of investor that most often employs it.
What Is Liability Insurance?  

Liability insurance is an insurance product that provides protection against claims resulting from injuries and damage to other people or property. Liability insurance policies cover any legal costs and payouts an insured party is responsible for if they are found legally liable. Intentional damage and contractual liabilities are generally not covered in liability insurance policies.



Unlike other types of insurance, liability insurance policies pay third parties, and not policyholders.





Key Takeaway

Liability insurance provides protection against claims resulting from injuries and damage to people and/or property.Liability insurance covers legal costs and payouts for which the insured party would be found liable.Provisions not covered include Intentional damage, contractual liabilities, and criminal prosecution.Liability insurance is often required for automotive insurance policies, product manufacturers, and anyone who practices medicine or law. Personal liability, workers' compensation, and commercial liability are types of liability insurance. 


   How Liability Insurance Works  

Liability insurance is critical for those who are liable and at fault for injuries sustained by other people or in the event that the insured party damages someone else's property. As such, liability insurance is also called third-party insurance. Liability insurance does not cover intentional or criminal acts even if the insured party is found legally responsible. Policies are taken out by anyone who owns a business, drives a car, practices medicine or law—basically anyone who can be sued for damages and/or injuries. Policies protect both the insured and third parties who may be injured as a result of the policyholder's unintentional negligence.






Liability insurance is also called third-party insurance.



For instance, most states require that vehicle owners have liability insurance under their automotive insurance policies to cover injury to other people and property in the event of accidents. A product manufacturer may purchase product liability insurance to cover them if a product is faulty and causes damage to the purchasers or another third party. Business owners may purchase liability insurance that covers them if an employee is injured during business operations. The decisions doctors and surgeons make while on the job also require liability insurance policies.


   Special Considerations  

Personal liability insurance policies are purchased primarily by high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) or those with sizeable assets, but this type of coverage is recommended to anyone with a net worth that exceeds the combined coverage limits of other personal insurance policies, such as home and auto coverage. The cost of an additional insurance policy doesn't appeal to everyone, although most carriers offer reduced rates for bundled coverage packages. Personal liability insurance is considered a secondary policy and may require policyholders to carry certain limits on their home and auto policies, which may result in additional expenses.






The global liability insurance market size was valued at more than $25 billion in 2021, and is expected to reach $433 billion by 2031.



Although commercial general liability insurance protects against most legal hassles, it doesn't protect directors and officers from being sued, and it doesn't protect the insured against errors and omissions. Companies require special policies for these cases including:



Errors and Omissions Liability Insurance (E&O): An errors and omissions liability insurance policy covers lawsuits arising from negligent professional services or failing to perform professional duties. Lawyers, accountants, architects, engineers, or any business providing a service to a client for a fee should purchase this form of insurance. An E&O policy does not cover criminal prosecution, fraudulent or dishonest acts, or claims against bodily injury. The insured, however, is covered for attorney fees, court costs, and any settlements up to the amount specified by the insurance contract.
Directors and Officers (D&O) Insurance: This type of policy protects directors and officers of large companies against legal judgments and costs arising from unlawful acts, erroneous investment decisions, failure to maintain property, releasing confidential information, hiring and firing decisions, conflicts of interest, gross negligence, and other errors. Most D&O policies exclude coverage for fraud or other criminal acts. Premiums depend on the company, its location, industry type, and loss experience.


   Types of Liability Insurance  

Business owners are exposed to a range of liabilities, any of which can subject their assets to substantial claims. All business owners need to have an asset protection plan in place that's built around available liability insurance coverage.



Here are the main types of liability insurance:



Employer’s liability and workers' compensation is mandatory coverage for employers which protects the business against liabilities arising from injuries or the death of an employee.
Product liability insurance is for businesses that manufacture products for sale on the general market. Product liability insurance protects against lawsuits arising from injury or death caused by their products.
Indemnity insurance provides coverage to protect a business against negligence claims due to financial harm resulting from mistakes or failure to perform.
Director and officer liability coverage cover a company's board of directors or officers against liability if the company should be sued. Some companies provide additional protection to their executive team even though corporations generally provide some degree of personal protection to their employees.
Umbrella liability policies are personal liability policies designed to protect against catastrophic losses. Coverage generally kicks in when the liability limits of other insurance are reached.
Commercial liability insurance is a standard commercial general liability policy also known as comprehensive general liability insurance. It provides insurance coverage for lawsuits arising from injury to employees and the public, property damage caused by an employee, as well as injuries suffered by the negligent action of employees. The policy may also cover infringement on intellectual property, slander, libel, contractual liability, tenant liability, and employment practices liability.
Comprehensive general liability policies are tailor-made for any small or large business, partnership or joint venture businesses, a corporation or association, an organization, or even a newly acquired business. Insurance coverage includes bodily injury, property damage, personal and advertising injury, medical payments, and premises and operations liability. Insurers provide coverage for compensatory and general damages for lawsuits but not punitive damages.




How Does Personal Liability Insurance Differ From Business Liability Insurance?
Personal liability insurance covers individuals against claims resulting from injuries or damage to other people or property experienced on the insured's property or as a result of the insured's actions. Business liability insurance instead protects the financial interests of companies and business owners from lawsuits or damages resulting from similar accidents but also extending to product defects, recalls, and so on.




What Is Umbrella Insurance?
An umbrella insurance policy is additional liability insurance coverage that is purchased and goes beyond the dollar limits of the insured's existing homeowners, auto, or watercraft insurance. Umbrella policies tend to be affordable and offered in increments of $500,000 or $1 million.




What Is Backdated Liability Coverage?
Usually, you must have liability coverage in place when an event happens that results in a claim. Backdated liability insurance, however, is insurance that provides coverage for a claim that occurred before the insurance policy was purchased. These policies are uncommon and usually available only to businesses.
What Is a Liar Loan?  

A liar loan is a category of mortgage loan that requires little or no documentation of income. Because the lender does not verify income and assets by looking at W-2 forms, income tax returns and other records, such loans are said to be "liar loans" because lenders simply take the borrower at their word.





Key Takeaways

A liar loan is a category of mortgage loan that requires little or no documentation of income and assets.Low-documentation and no-documentation loans were originally designed for borrowers who had difficulty producing paperwork to verify their income and assets.These loans were a contributing factor in the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis, as a significant run-up in property values encouraged brokers to push these types of loans.Regulatory reforms such as Dodd-Frank require lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination of a borrower's ability to repay any loan secured by a dwelling.﻿﻿


   How a Liar Loan Works  

For certain low-documentation loans, such as stated income/stated asset mortgages (SISA), income and assets are simply noted on the loan application. On the other hand, with no income/no asset mortgages (NINA), the lender doesn't even require the borrower to disclose income and assets at all.



Some liar loans take the form of NINJA loans, an acronym that means the borrower has "no income, no job, and no assets." These loan programs open the door for unethical behavior by unscrupulous borrowers and lenders, and have been historically abused.



Low-documentation and no-documentation loans were originally designed for borrowers who have a hard time producing paperwork to verify their income and assets, such as prior tax returns. Or else they might derive income from untraditional sources where such documentation is unavailable, such as tips or a personal business.



Low-doc and no-doc loans were meant to give individuals and households with nontraditional income sources the opportunity to become homeowners. For example, self-employed individuals tend to not receive monthly pay stubs and might not have a consistent salary.



Low-documentation mortgages usually fall into the Alt-A category of mortgage lending. Alt-A lending depends heavily on a borrower's credit score and the mortgage's loan-to-value ratio as tools to determine the borrower's ability to repay.






Liar loans offer people with nontraditional income the opportunity to own property, but they have been historically abused.


   How Borrowers and Brokers Use Liar Loans  

Low-doc and no-doc loans are called liar loans because they open the door for abuse when borrowers, their mortgage brokers, or loan officers overstate income or assets in order to qualify the borrower for a larger mortgage. Borrowers or brokers might do this in order to secure mortgages that would otherwise not be authorized.



The proliferation of liar loans was a contributing factor in the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis and housing bubble. One research paper estimated that liar loans accounted for $100 billion in losses, or 20% of total losses, registered during the crisis.﻿﻿



Borrowers received approvals on mortgages that exceeded their ability to repay. Some mortgage brokers pushed these loans, particularly prior to 2008, because the overall real estate market saw a significant run-up in valuations. In effect, over-speculation led to unscrupulous behavior. Often, individuals who had no intention of repaying their mortgages were allowed to come into ownership of a residence.



After the financial crisis, regulatory reforms such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act put new constraints in place to deter and prevent such activity going forward. The reforms required lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination of a borrower's ability to repay any loan secured by a dwelling.﻿﻿
What Is Liar's Poker?  

"Liar's Poker" is a betting game often associated with Wall Street traders. It involves wagering on the frequency of digits appearing in the serial numbers of U.S. paper currency.



In each round, players take turns proposing an ever-increasing number of digits (e.g., a sequence may involve: three 5s, three 6s, four 5s, etc.).



The game proceeds until somebody calls out the previous proposal as being a "lie." If such a sequence exists (e.g., there are four or more 5s between all the serial numbers held) the person who announced the proposal wins. If there are not that many (i.e., there are only three 5s), then the one who called out the hand wins.



Liar's poker, like the game poker itself, relies on a mix of statistical reasoning, chance, and psychological tactics.



Liar's Poker is also the title of a bestselling finance book by author Michael Lewis, which is about bond trading at Salomon Bros. in the late 1980s.





Key Takeaways

Liar's Poker is a multiplayer game that involves wagering on the total number of digits contained in the serial numbers of dollar bills held by the platers on a turn-by-turn basis.It's a game of strategy and psychology in which players hold random dollar bills with close attention to the serial numbers on their respective bills.The rules of Liar's Poker require escalating bids, thereby increasing the game's stakes.The game is comparable to "Liar’s Dice," a game where players roll dice, hide the numbers they have rolled, and then make bids on the total number of dice they believe were rolled by all players with that face value.Liar's Poker is also the title of a popular financial book by Michael Lewis that depicts Wall Street bond trading culture at Salomon Brothers (later Salomon Smith Barney). Along with Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco (by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar) and The Bonfire of the Vanities (by Tom Wolfe), Liar's Poker is considered one of the books that captured Wall Street culture in the 1980s.


   Understanding Liar's Poker  

The rules of Liar's Poker are fairly similar to those of the card game "Cheat." Players hold randomly drawn dollar bills, with close attention to the serial numbers on their respective bills.



The objective of the game is to bluff opponents into believing that your bid does not exceed the combined sum of all of the serial numbers among the bills in play.



In Liar's Poker, if one proposes, say, three "fours," they are predicting that among all of the dollar serial numbers held by all players, there are at least three "fours." If the player's bluff is not called, the next player must either bid a higher frequency of any other digit (five "twos") or can bid a higher number at the same frequency level (three "sixes").



The game continues until somebody thinks the prior player is lying and calls the bluff. If correct, the one who called the bluff wins; if not the player who proposed the sequence wins.















Dollar Bill Serial Number.


   Strategies Used in Liar's Poker  

The number of players in the game can affect the probability of winning, though the game itself largely rewards and benefits those who employ deception and trickery to win. Rather than merely bidding as accurately as possible, the players are taking turns at coaxing their rivals to make a mistake as they play.



The rules of the game require bids to continue escalating, thereby increasing the game's stakes. With more than two players, it is a frequent strategy to continue to raise the bid given the likelihood of being challenged and the related likelihood of losing when challenging. The strategy relies on continuous bluffing in hopes of potentially winning.



The game is comparable to "Liar’s Dice," a game where players roll dice, hide the numbers they have rolled, and then make bids on the total number of dice they believe were rolled by all players with that face value. Here again, each player bids and bluffs until challenged by another player.



Typically if a player poses a challenge in Liar's Poker and is incorrect, they must pay the player they challenged. If the player who was challenged was found to be incorrect, then they must pay every player who posed the challenge. Usually, the payout is one dollar (the dollar used in the game), but that may be increased depending on the agreed-upon rules and stakes.


   Liar's Poker (The Book)  

Liar's Poker is also the title of a popular financial book by Michael Lewis that depicts Wall Street bond trading culture at Salomon Brothers (later Salomon Smith Barney). It was first published in 1989.



The book provides a behind-the-scenes look at this unique and chaotic time in US business history. Along with Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco (by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar) and The Bonfire of the Vanities (by Tom Wolfe), Liar's Poker is considered one of the books that captured Wall Street culture in the 1980s.



Lewis, who previously worked as a bond trader, has said that he intended the book to be a cautionary tale about questionable and deceptive behavior and practices at his workplace. But he admits that some individuals have since used the book as a blueprint to seek personal profit.






Michael Lewis is best known for critically acclaimed books The Big Short (2015), Moneyball (2011), and The Blind Side (2009), all of which have been adapted into big-screen movies.


   Liar's Poker FAQs  
  Is Liar's Poker (Book) a True Story?  

Liar's Poker is a non-fiction, semi-autobiographical book by Michael Lewis, recounting his own experiences on Wall Street in the late 1980s.


  Does Salomon Brothers Still Exist?  

In 1997, Salomon Brothers merged with Smith Barney and formed Salomon Smith Barney. Citigroup then merged with the bank, turning Salomon Smith Barney into its investment banking arm. In 2003, Citigroup dropped all references to the Salomon name due to its association with financial scandals.


  What Are the Lowest and Highest Ranked Numbers in Liar's Poker?  

In Liar's Poker, 0s are usually the lowest-ranked numbers and 9s are the highest-ranked numbers.
What Is Libel?  

Libel involves the act of publishing a statement about an individual, either in written form or by broadcast over media platforms such as radio, television, or the Internet, that is untrue and threatens to harm the reputation and/or livelihood of the targeted person. Libel is considered a civil wrong (tort) and can, therefore, be the basis of a lawsuit.



Libel is often compared with slander, which refers to unwritten or unpublished defamatory speech.





Key Takeaways

Libel is a category of defamation that includes defamatory statements that are published or broadcast.Libel is a tort under common law for which a defamed party can sue for damages.Pure opinions, true statements, and some criticism of public figures may be protected against claims of libel.Slander, a similar legal concept, involves defamatory speech that is not written or broadcast.


   Understanding Libel  

Libel represents the published or broadcasted version of defamation. Defamation occurs when an individual's words damage another person’s reputation or tarnish their ability to earn a living. Persons who commit libel can be subjected to civil, and, in the past, criminal penalties.



In the U.S., libel was once considered an area of unprotected speech not covered by First Amendment freedoms, along with obscenity and fighting words. This changed over the course of the 20th century as court decisions began to favor free speech over the protection of those damaged by potentially defamatory speech.



The offending statement in question must purport to be factual and not opinion-based. This is generally a strong defense, but this does not mean that by simply preceding a statement with the words “I think,” an individual is safeguarded from the possibility of committing libelous actions. For example, if someone wrote and published the sentence, “I think Sam murdered their spouse,” that individual is nonetheless vulnerable to libel, even though this statement was technically framed as a belief. Indeed, this phrase suggests that the individual had a solid basis in which to believe that the statement is factual.


   Proving Libel  

For someone to be found guilty of committing libel, the target of the offending comments does not necessarily have to claim to be harmed as the result of the published statement. Several types of defamatory statements are considered damaging in themselves regardless of whether they can be shown to have resulted in actual harm. These include allegations of criminal activity, statements that someone has a contagious disease, accusations of sexual misconduct, and allegations of unprofessional or improper business conduct.



Separately, it is generally more difficult for public figures to sue for libel than it is for private parties to bring legal action in the wake of similar comments. This is mainly due to a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court requiring the libel to demonstrate "actual malice" in order for a public figure to sue. Modest factual inaccuracies, such as incorrectly stating a person's age, height, or weight, do not constitute libelous activity.



Lastly, truth is recognized as a complete defense against complaints of defamation. Depending on the jurisdiction, a defamatory statement may be presumed to be false, in which case the defendant can raise an affirmative defense if they can show it is substantially true, or the burden may be on the plaintiff to that an allegedly defamatory statement is, in fact, false in order to prove their claim. Either way, a true statement can be protected against claims of defamation.






Two current members of the Supreme Court, namely Justices Thomas and Gorsuch, have indicated that the Sullivan decision should be reconsidered. This landmark case from the 1960s revolved around ads placed in The New York Times urging readers to contribute to a legal fund for Martin Luther King, Jr., but which contained several small inaccuracies. The court ruled that the Times was not committing libel. Instead, the court decided that the target of a libel claim must show that it was made with prior knowledge or reckless disregard for its false claims. Scholars have argued that the Sullivan case affirmed freedom of the press and paved the way for the civil rights movement.


   Differences Between Libel and Slander  

The chief difference between slander and libel is that the former involves defamatory speech, while the latter focuses on defamatory writings. Interestingly, although defamatory content presented on websites was originally considered to be libelous and not slanderous, that view has shifted, largely due to the English courts, which opine that Internet content is more commensurate with speech than it is with traditional print media.



From a strictly legal perspective, defamatory comments are not actionable unless they are properly published. Unfortunately for ill-intended bloggers, the term “published,” in the context of Internet communication, legally means that merely a single individual must read the offensive blog in question. Consequently, a webmaster may be sued for libeling someone by trashing their reputation on a personal blog, if only their best pal, a colleague, or a family member consumes the defamatory words.



Of course, personal blogs are typically far less trafficked than mainstream websites, such as the BBC News official site, and other large platforms. Therefore, that first group is more apt to get away with the defamation—not only because the words may slip by unnoticed, but also because the target of the libel may be reluctant to file suit against the offending blogger, lest a public court case bring even more attention to the slurs in question. 




Why Is Broadcast Speech Libel If It Is Not Written?
Even though broadcast media (e.g., TV or radio) typically involves spoken words without text, it is nonetheless considered libel because according to the law. This is because broadcast media has the capacity to reach large audiences just as written words do, making it less temporary.




Can You Be Guilty of Libel iI You Leave Disparaging or Negative Comments Online?
If a defamatory or damaging statement is written and posted online, such as via a blog post or through social media, it may be considered libel. If so, the one who committed the libel could be prosecuted. While not yet common, there is increased concern that negative online reviews may end up constituting libel.




Can Opinions Be Libel?
No. Statements of opinion (e.g., "I think that...") are protected speech and cannot be prosecuted as libel (unlike a statement of fact).
What Is a Liberty Bond?  

A Liberty Bond is a debt obligation issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in conjunction with the Federal Reserve. Also known as a Liberty Loan, it was a war bond, issued in four installments in 1917-18 as a means to finance the U.S.' participation in World War I and the Allied war effort in Europe.



The U.S. government helped sell Liberty Bonds again after the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001—this time, to finance the rebuilding of “Ground Zero” and other damaged areas.





key takeaways

Liberty Bonds were federally issued debt obligations used to finance American participation in World War I.Liberty Bonds, which appealed to patriotic sentiment, offered many "ordinary" Americans their first experience with investments.In 2002, Liberty Bonds were jointly issued by the city and state of New York, with aid from the U.S. government, to rebuild lower Manhattan neighborhoods in the wake of 9/11.


   Understanding Liberty Bonds  

Liberty Bonds were launched by an act of Congress known as the Liberty Bond Act, later dubbed the First Liberty Bond Act, since there were three subsequent acts to authorize additional bond issues, plus a fifth post-war round.



With this program, Americans basically loaned the government money to help pay for the costs of wartime military operations. After a certain number of years, those who invested in these bonds would receive their money back, plus interest. The government created these bonds as part of what was known as the “Liberty Loan” program, a joint effort between the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve System, which had been created just three years earlier, in 1914.



The federal government promoted these securities as a way for U.S. citizens to show their patriotic spirit and support the nation and its military. However, Liberty Bonds were only moderately successful when first issued in April 1917, to the embarrassment of the Treasury Department. The government, to ensure the bonds were more successful the next time, organized a massive public awareness campaign using eye-catching posters, billboards, endorsements from movie stars, and other promotional tactics for the second offering of Liberty Bonds in late 1917.






A final, fifth release of Liberty Bonds occurred in April 1919; only they were dubbed “Victory Bonds” to celebrate the end of World War I.


   Liberty Bonds as Investments  

The first issue of Liberty Bonds offered an interest rate of 3.5%, which was lower than that available through a typical savings account at that time. Over the course of several subsequent releases, the interest rate gradually increased slightly, up to 4.25%. Still, the primary appeal of these securities was to show patriotic support, and not for financial gain.



Nevertheless, Liberty Bonds offered many "ordinary" Americans their first experience with investing. Up to then, securities were seen as something for the very rich or professional Wall Street traders. But the then-Secretary of the Treasury, William Gibbs McAdoo, envisioned the entire bond program as something of a financial educator, as well as of patriotism booster, for the average individual.





$17b

The amount raised by Liberty Bonds sold during World War I.



Bonds were available in denominations as low as $50. They could also be bought in installments, via 25-cent War Thrift Stamps and $5 War Savings Certificates, which eventually could be turned in for an actual Liberty Bond. McAdoo also set the bonds' interest rate relatively low, to prevent them from being snapped up by the well-to-do and by speculators.



One economic advantage of the first issue of Liberty Bonds was that the interest was exempt from taxes, except for estate or inheritance taxes. Though they had terms of 25 to 30 years, most of the Liberty Bonds issued during the early rounds were cashed in or converted to bonds offering a higher interest rate (they were redeemable after 10 or 15 years). As a result, those bond certificates are rare and valued by collectors.


   Liberty Bonds in the 21st Century  

Liberty Bonds re-emerged in the early 2000s, although these obligations were somewhat different animals: not federal Treasury bonds, but New York municipal bonds. Jointly issued by the New York City Housing Development Corporation and the New York State Housing Finance Agency from 2002-2006, with a $1.2 billion contribution from the federal government, these private activity bonds were intended to help rebuild the part of Lower Manhattan, dubbed the Liberty Zone, that had been devastated by the World Trade Center terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.



The $8 billion issue had a different target audience, too—real estate developers and corporations—and a different aim: to finance not a war effort, but residential and commercial buildings.



Critics charged the program went to help high-profile corporations—the bonds were triple-tax-exempt—and, in many cases, towards projects that weren't even located near Ground Zero. Yet they did spur a building spree in downtown Manhattan, which today is a more populated, thriving area than it ever was.
What Is the LIBOR Curve?  

The LIBOR curve is the graphical representation of the interest rate term structure of various maturities of the London Interbank Offered Rate, commonly known as LIBOR. LIBOR is a short-term floating rate at which large banks with high credit ratings lend to each other. The LIBOR curve depicts the yield curve for short-term LIBOR rates of less than one year. The transition from LIBOR to other benchmarks, such as the secured overnight financing rate (SOFR), began in 2020.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The LIBOR curve depicts the yield curve for various short-term LIBOR maturities in graphical form.The transition from LIBOR to other benchmarks, such as the secured overnight financing rate (SOFR), began in 2020.These LIBOR rates range from overnight up to several months in maturity.The LIBOR curve is looked at to see how lending rates in a variety of debt markets are expected to behave in the near- to mid-term.


   Understanding the LIBOR Curve  

LIBOR is one of the world's most widely used benchmark for short-term interest rates. It serves as a primary indicator for the average interest rate, at which contributing banks may obtain short-term loans in the London interbank market. The LIBOR curve plots rates against their corresponding maturities. The LIBOR curve typically plots its yield curve across seven different maturities—overnight (spot next (S/N)), one week, one month, two months, three months, six months, and 12 months.



A yield curve is a line that plots yields (interest rates) of bonds having equal credit quality but differing maturity dates. The slope of the yield curve gives an idea of future interest rate changes and economic activity. There are three main types of yield curve shapes: normal (upward sloping curve), inverted (downward sloping curve), and flat.



Upward sloping: long-term yields are higher than short-term yields. This is considered to be the "normal" slope of the yield curve and signals that the economy is in an expansionary mode.Downward sloping: short-term yields are higher than long-term yields. Dubbed as an "inverted" yield curve and signifies that the economy is in, or about to enter, a recessive period.Flat: very little variation between short- and long-term yields. Signals that the market is unsure about the future direction of the economy.



Although not theoretically risk-free, LIBOR is considered a good proxy against which to measure the risk/return tradeoff for other short-term floating rate instruments. The LIBOR curve can be predictive of longer-term interest rates and is especially important in the pricing of interest rate swaps.


   Criticism of the LIBOR Curve  

Abuse of the LIBOR system for personal gain was uncovered in the wake of the financial crisis that began in 2008. Massive dislocations in global banking enabled individuals working at contributor banks to manipulate LIBOR rates. In 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) of the U.K. took over the regulation of LIBOR. As of December 2020, plans were in place to phase out the LIBOR system by 2023 and replace it with other benchmarks, such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA).﻿﻿
What Is the LIBOR Scandal?  

The LIBOR Scandal was a highly-publicized scheme in which bankers at several major financial institutions colluded with each other to manipulate the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The scandal sowed distrust in the financial industry and led to a wave of fines, lawsuits, and regulatory actions. Although the scandal came to light in 2012, there is evidence suggesting that the collusion in question had been ongoing since as early as 2003.



Many leading financial institutions were implicated in the scandal, including Deutsche Bank (DB), Barclays (BCS), Citigroup (C), JPMorgan Chase (JPM), and the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS).



As a result of the rate-fixing scandal, questions around LIBOR's validity as a credible benchmark rate has arisen and it is now being phased out. According to the Federal Reserve and regulators in the U.K., LIBOR will be phased out by June 30, 2023, and will be replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). As part of this phase-out, LIBOR's one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates will no longer be published after December 31, 2021. 





Key Takeaways

The LIBOR Scandal refers to a major episode of financial collusion in which one of the world’s most influential benchmark interest rates was manipulated by various banks.The scheme caused financial contracts to be mispriced throughout the world, in transactions such as mortgages, corporate fundraising, and derivative trades.The scandal left several regulatory changes, lawsuits, and fines in its wake, damaging public trust in the financial markets.


   Understanding the LIBOR Scandal  

The LIBOR is a benchmark interest rate that is used for the pricing of loans and derivative products throughout the world. It is formed using reference interest rates submitted by participating banks. During the LIBOR Scandal, traders at many of these banks deliberately submitted artificially low or high interest rates in order to force the LIBOR higher or lower, in an effort to support their own institutions’ derivative and trading activities.



The LIBOR scandal was significant because of the central role LIBOR plays in global finance. The LIBOR is used to determine everything from the interest rates that giant corporations will pay for loans, to the rates individual consumers will pay for home mortgages or student loans. It is also used in derivative pricing. Therefore, by manipulating the LIBOR, the traders in question were indirectly causing a cascade of mispriced financial assets throughout the entire global financial system. Understandably, this led to a substantial public backlash, as parties throughout the world wondered whether they may have been harmed financially.



Public outrage at the scandal was further exacerbated by the apparent brashness of many of the actors involved. This became evident as emails and phone records were released during investigations. Evidence showed traders openly asking others to set rates at a specific amount so that a particular position would be profitable. Regulators in both the United States and the United Kingdom levied some $9 billion in fines on banks involved in the scandal, as well as a slew of criminal charges. Because LIBOR is used in the pricing of many of the financial instruments used by corporations and governments, they have also filed lawsuits, alleging that the rate-fixing negatively affected them.


   Example of the LIBOR Scandal  

Although it is difficult to know whether any particular person was affected by the LIBOR scandal, there are many potential ways in which its impact could have been felt. For example, individual homeowners may have initiated fixed-rate mortgages at a time when mortgage rates were artificially lifted based on upward manipulation of the LIBOR. From the homeowner’s perspective, every dollar of additional expense caused by the artificially high rates could be seen as a kind of “theft” being committed by the LIBOR rate fixers. Similarly, many traders who were party to derivative contracts would have experienced unnecessarily severe losses as a result of the LIBOR scandal.



Ultimately, the LIBOR scandal left many changes in its wake. Following the exposure of the LIBOR collusion, Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) took the responsibility for LIBOR supervision away from the British Bankers Association (BBA) and turned it over to the Intercontinental Exchange's Benchmark Administration (IBA). The IBA is an independent U.K. subsidiary of the private U.S.-based exchange operator, Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). LIBOR is now commonly known as ICE LIBOR.



More recently, the FCA has announced that it will support LIBOR only until 2021, at which point it hopes to transition to an alternative system. The New York Federal Reserve launched a possible LIBOR replacement in April 2018 called the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which is based on short-term loans observed in the repo market. Unlike the LIBOR, there’s extensive trading in Treasury repos—roughly 1,500 times that of interbank loans as of 2018—theoretically making it a more accurate indicator of borrowing costs. Moreover, the SOFR is based on data from observable transactions rather than on estimated borrowing rates, as is sometimes the case with LIBOR.
What Is a Licensee?  

A licensee is any business, organization, or individual that has been granted legal permission, or certain rights by another entity who owns certain assets, to engage in any activity related to these assets. The permission, or license, can be given on an express or implied basis.



Licensees will compensate the owner of the license via an upfront payment, ongoing fees, royalties, or some other revenue-sharing arrangement.





Key Takeaways

A licensee is some entity that has been granted permission to conduct activities using something that another party owns or controls.The licensee may pay the licensor for the permission, or share revenue arising from activities arising from the permission.Licensing agreements are common in several sectors, including media, entertainment, technology, and bio-pharma.Types of licensee arrangements include franchises, brand licenses, and government licenses.An operating license grants the licensee the legal capacity to conduct business.


   Understanding Licensees  

A licensee has received legal permission from another party to conduct some sort of business over which the other party holds some control, ownership, or authority. The licensee may pay outright for this permission, known as a licensing fee, or may make payments based on the results of the business arrangement, known as licensing revenue.






A licensee may pay the licensor for the permission, or share revenue arising from activities arising from the permission.



Many variations on the licensing relationship exist in the business world. Musical performances, recordings, and broadcasts often contain royalty agreements for licensing music. Software programs may include licensing agreements between corporate end-users and the copyright holders of the underlying code. Patent holders of certain key technologies may demand payment for licensing its use in other products (e.g., in consumer electronics or cars).



Media companies license the content that they air or stream from producers or content creators. Research and discoveries found by scholars at universities may be licensed to private companies or startups, especially in the fields of information technology, science, biotech, and healthcare. Recently, the creator economy and web 2 and web 3 era produced many creators who license their content including courses, posts, articles, podcasts, and videos related to any area they create.



Some other common examples of licensee arrangements include the following:


  Franchisees  

Under a franchise agreement, the franchisee is granted permission to use the franchisor’s assets, such as supply chain, trademarks, or other intellectual property for a certain period of time. Typically, the franchisee is granted exclusive rights to those assets within a certain localized area.



Examples of franchisees include the owner-operators of many retail stores or restaurants including some fast food locations.


  Brand Licensing  

In brand licensing, the licensee is permitted to use a licensor’s trademarks and logos on its own manufactured products, such a sports apparel or toys.



For instance, a hit superhero movie may be released that generates a large fan base. The characters in the film are the property of the movie studio, but they decide to solicit licensing agreements from various producers of consumer goods. As such, the likenesses of these characters may appear on clothing, posters, lunch boxes, and in games. They may also appear as action figures or dolls. Note that the producers of all these items are unaffiliated with the movie studio and must pay fees or royalties per the licensing agreements that represent the movie's brand.


  Operating License  

A licensee may also be an entity that has been granted legal or regulatory permission to operate. Such a license is a mechanism for governments to oversee, and in many cases tax, certain business operators. A liquor license is an example of this type. By issuing the license, a city or county ensures compliance with local regulations regarding alcoholic beverages and receives an additional revenue stream specifically associated with the sale of alcohol.



Many types of businesses are required to obtain an operating license before being able to legally do business. These can range from food trucks to banks. Operating licenses can be granted at various levels of governance from local or state governments (e.g., for food trucks) all the way up to federal regulators (e.g., in the case of banks).



A license to sell securities is a sort of similar permission granted on a state or nationwide basis. National licenses are granted by Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), a private regulatory authority that enforces the rules governing registered brokers and broker-dealer firms in the United States. Examples include the Series 7 and Series 63 licenses.





Implied License

An implied license can be a more ambiguous relationship, as no express permission has been legally granted. The classic example is the implied permission a firefighter has to enter a burning building, even if the owner is not present to formally approve the entry. In business, this concept tends to involve a licensee interpreting communications with a licensor as implied permission to make use of an asset.


   Real Estate Licensees  

An important use of licensee refers to permissions granted to access real estate. Typically, a licensee of a property has been granted express permission to make use of land by the owner. The property in question is not open to the general public.



A common example used in law schools is that of a hunter who has written permission to hunt on a landowner’s property. Without this permission, the hunter would be considered a trespasser and under very little legal protection from hazards encountered while hunting there. Nor could the hunter be considered an invitee, a legal term to describe a guest with recourse to take legal action in response to damages suffered while in the property.


   Other Requirements  

In addition to paying any fees or revenues associated with being granted a license, licensees are often subject to requirements that they treat the granted permission responsibly. The hunter is expected to leave the property in the condition they found it. The securities broker is required to recommend investments appropriate to the client. The liquor store operator is prohibited from selling to underage customers.



A license does not grant free rein to exploit the licensed rights, whether they be to a public or private asset.




What Is a Licensee of a Property?
A licensee is one who has been given limited permission to use or occupy a property (physical or intellectual property). The licensee will pay or compensate the actual owner of the property for its use, the terms of which will be spelled out in a licensing agreement. As such, the tenant of a rented apartment may be construed as a licensee of sorts.




What Is the Difference Between a Licensor and a Licensee?
The licensor is the owner of some property (or the rights thereof) that grants permission to a licensee to use them, in return for compensation.




What Is a License Holder Business?
This term implies that a business has applied for and holds a valid license, obtained from the proper authority, to legally operate or do business in a certain location or locations.




What Is a Licensing Agency?
A licensing agency is a broker that brings together license owners with potential licensees and arranges licensing agreements between these parties. A licensing agent may approach the owner of a license to see if they would be interested in such an arrangement.
What Is a Licensing Agreement?  

The term licensing agreement refers to a legal, written contract between two parties wherein the property owner gives permission to another party to use their brand, patent, or trademark. The agreement, which is set between the licensor (the property owner) and the licensee (the permitted party), contains details on the type of licensing agreement, the terms of usage, and how the licensor is to be compensated. Contract types vary based on what is being licensed. Licensing agreements also alleviate any disputes related to sales, issues of quality, and royalties.





Key Takeaways

A licensing agreement allows one party (the licensee) to use and/or earn revenue from the property of the owner (the licensor).Licensing agreements generate revenues, called royalties, earned by a company for allowing its copyrighted or patented material to be used by another company.Some examples of things that may be licensed include songs, sports team logos, intellectual property, software, and technology.Licensing agreements allow parties to control property and enter new markets without having to spend the money to do so.Drawbacks of these deals include establishing a relationship with the wrong company and the possibility of losing a company's reputation. 


   Understanding Licensing Agreements  

Licensing agreements delineate the terms under which one party may use property that is owned by another party. While the properties in question can include a myriad of items, including real estate holdings and personal possessions, licensing agreements are most often used for intellectual property, such as patents and trademarks, as well as copyrights for written materials and visual art.






Licensing agreements are widely used for the commercialization of new discoveries or technologies.



In addition to detailing all parties involved, licensing agreements need to specify in granular detail how licensed parties may use properties, including the following parameters:



The geographical regions within which the property may be utilized.The time period parties are allotted to use the property.The exclusivity or non-exclusivity of a given arrangement.Scaling terms, such that new royalty fees will be incurred if the property is reused a certain number of times. For example, a book publisher may enter a licensing agreement with another party to use a piece of artwork on the hardcover editions of a book, but not on the covers of subsequent paperback issuances. The publisher may also be restricted from using the artistic image in certain advertising campaigns.


   Licensing Revenues  

Licensing revenues, known as royalties, are a significant source of revenue for several publicly traded companies. For example, a major source of income for the publicly-traded company Dolby Laboratories is the licensing of its technology to consumer electronics manufacturers.



The terms of royalty payments are laid out in a license agreement. The license agreement defines the limits and restrictions of the royalties, such as its geographic limitations, the duration of the agreement, and the type of products with particular royalty cuts. License agreements are uniquely regulated if the resource owner is the government or if the license agreement is a private contract.



In most license agreements, royalty rates are defined as a percentage of sales or a payment per unit. The many factors that can affect royalty rates include exclusivity of rights, available alternatives, risks involved, market demand, and innovation levels of the products in question.



To accurately estimate royalty rates, the transactions between the buying and selling parties must be willingly executed. In other words: the agreements must not be forced. Furthermore, all royalty transactions must be conducted at arm's length, meaning that both parties act independently, and have no prior relationship with one other.


   Examples of Licensing Agreements  

Licensing agreements are found in many different industries. An example of a licensing agreement is a contract between the copyright holders of software and another company, allowing the latter to use the computer software for their daily business operations.



An example of a licensing agreement in the restaurant space would be when a McDonald's franchisee has a licensing agreement with the McDonald's Corporation that lets them use the company's branding and marketing materials. Toy manufacturers also routinely sign licensing agreements with movie studios, giving them the legal authority to produce action figures based on popular likenesses of movie characters.


   Entering Into a Licensing Agreement  

The bargaining power of the two parties involved in a licensing agreement often depends on the nature of the product. For example, a movie studio that licenses the likeness of a popular superhero to an action figure manufacturer might have significant bargaining power in this negotiation, because the manufacturer is likely to profit immensely from such an arrangement. The movie studio thus has the leverage to take its business elsewhere if the manufacturer gets cold feet.



Those entering into a licensing agreement should consult an attorney because there are complexities that may be hard to grasp for those without a deep understanding of intellectual property law.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Licensing Agreements  

As mentioned above, licensing agreements are legal contracts that are written between a licensor and a licensee. Making sure there's one in place provides certain advantages to both parties but there are also some key downfalls, too. We've outlined some of the key benefits and disadvantages of these agreements below.


  Advantages  

Licensing agreements clearly lay out the guidelines, rules, and stipulations that cover the use of the licensor's brand, patent, or trademark. Both the licensor and the licensee are fully aware of what is expected and required of them. This includes when payment is due and how much, any additional royalties that may be due as a result of the relationship, the type of agreement, the length to which the licensee can use the property, copyright issues, and the contract's expiration date.



Setting up an agreement saves a lot of time, money, and hassles. For instance, if someone decides to use a trademark without a licensing agreement, they may be sued by the property owner, which could result in legal battles, court fees, and lost time.



Contracts give licensors can retain a great degree of control over their property and gives them access to other markets. For instance, a licensor can dictate how their property is marketed. And it allows them to enter new markets—through the licensee—without actually having to set up shop there.


  Disadvantages  

One of the drawbacks of having a license agreement is drawing up a contract with the wrong party. In some cases, licensors may want to get into a market so desperately that it doesn't do its research. This means a licensor may be stuck in a lengthy contract with a company whose ideals don't align with its own. The same principle applies to the licensee, especially when it thinks a new product or brand may work well in a certain market without doing its research.



Both parties are also at the risk of losing brand power and/or their reputation. For example, if one company commits a marketing faux-pas or is embroiled in a scandal, it can put the other party at risk as well. This means that both the licensor and licensee must conduct their business effectively.



Entering into an agreement increases competition for the licensor. Although the licensee acts on behalf of the licensor, it is, in fact, in direct competition with their partner. The licensee also loses out, too. That's because relying on someone else's product means that the licensee may cut down its own research and development (R&D)





Pros

The expectations are laid out for each party involved
Saves time, money, and hassles
Gives each party more control in the relationship
Breaking into markets without having to spend too much money to do so



Cons

Being stuck in a lengthy contract with the wrong company
The possibility of losing brand power or corporate reputation
Increasing competition
Cutting down on research & development





   Licensing Agreement FAQs  
  What Is a Licensing Agreement Example?  

Entertainment companies like Netflix enter into licensing agreements all the time. The online streaming service obtains the right to broadcast content either exclusively or with other companies from the title/content owners. For instance, the company behind a major television series may enter into a licensing agreement, allowing Netflix to include the show among its titles for a certain number of years. In exchange, Netflix would agree to provide royalties to the content owner from fees it collects from its subscribers.


  How Do Licensing Agreements Work?  

Licensing agreements are legal contracts that are written between two parties—a licensor and licensee. The contract stipulates the type of agreement, the length of the relationship, payments and royalties that are due and when, and the extent to which licensing is allowed. Licensing also allows both parties to retain control over certain facets of the deal, including exclusivity and how a product or service is marketed. In essence, the contract lays out the expectations of what is required of both parties.


  How Do I Create a Licensing Agreement?  

The best way to create a licensing agreement is through a lawyer. By getting professional help, you lay out the proper foundation for a relationship with the other party. If you don't do so, you open yourself up to a lot of financial and legal hurdles.


  How Much Is a Licensing Agreement?  

The cost to draw up a licensing agreement can cost anywhere from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars. Going through a lawyer means you'll have to pay an hourly fee. A simple contract may only be a few hours, while a more hefty deal between parties means more details and revisions.


   The Bottom Line  

If you want to use someone else's property—especially intellectual property—you'll have to ask that party to enter into a licensing agreement with you. You'll probably have to go through a lawyer to ensure that your interests and those of the property holder are safeguarded. You may have to spend some money to get the agreement drawn up, but by doing so, your financial assets and business will be well taken care of and you're guaranteeing that the relationship with the licensor will be smooth.
What Is a Licensing Fee?   

A licensing fee is a sum of money paid to another entity for a certain right. For example, individuals or companies may pay licensing fees to a government agency for the right to perform professional services or engage in a particular line of business. In other instances, individuals or businesses pay licensing fees for the right to use intellectual property that another party owns.





Key Takeaways

A licensing fee can refer to a government-imposed fee to work in a certain profession or operate a certain type of business.A licensing fee can also refer to money paid to the owner of intellectual property (such as a song, an invention, or a brand name) for the right to use that property.License fees are generally a fixed amount, while royalties are usage-based payments for using an asset or a property.


   How Professional Licensing Fees Work  

Many types of professions require licenses before a person can perform the work of that profession. These licenses are usually issued after the individual has passed a certification exam and/or completed a certain number of mandatory training hours.



Once someone has their license, they are a licensee. They may have to take additional exams and courses and pay additional fees in the future to maintain their licenses. Their licenses may also be revoked if they are found to have violated the law or their profession’s code of ethics.



Such licenses are often issued by state governments, and individuals who want to do business in more than one state may have to obtain a license from each one. For example, life insurance agents are typically licensed in their home state, or the one where their business is based; they can obtain nonresident licenses to do business in other states through reciprocity arrangements with those states.



In addition to the states, the federal government also charges licensing fees to certain types of businesses. For example, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission charges commercial nuclear power plant operators licensing fees to support its work. The Federal Communications Commission imposes them on radio and television broadcasters. And the list goes on.


   Pros and Cons of Professional Licensing Fees  

Professional licensing exists largely to ensure that the people or companies practicing a certain trade or selling a particular product know what they’re doing, as well as to give the public some assurance of that. It can also be a source of revenue for government agencies.



However, licensing fees, combined with the time and money required to get the training necessary to qualify for them, create barriers to entry in licensed occupations. Hairdressers, for example, must pay a licensing fee and obtain a cosmetology license to operate their business, which also serves to drive up the costs of their services.


   How Other Licensing Fees Work  

A licensing fee can also refer to a sum paid to use intellectual property of various kinds, such as a copyrighted work, like a photograph or a logo, that is owned by someone else.



For example, a T-shirt company that wants to sell shirts imprinted with a certain Major League Baseball team’s logo would need to pay a licensing fee to get Major League Baseball’s permission and possibly the permission of the team itself.



A television or movie company wanting to use a particular song in its soundtrack might have to pay for multiple licenses. According to the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), which licenses more than 16 million songs and scores, the producer would need to obtain a synchronization license for “the right to synchronize a song or a piece of music with your visual image. It must be obtained from the copyright owner of the music, which is usually the publisher.”



In addition, it would need to obtain a master use license for the “right to reproduce a specific recording of a song” from the relevant music label.



In one notably expensive example, the producers of “Mad Men” reportedly paid a total of $250,000 to license the Beatles song “Tomorrow Never Knows,” so that the character Don Draper could listen to it in one scene.


   Licensing Fee vs. Royalty  

Royalties are ongoing, usage-based payments for the right to use an asset or a property. They are generally calculated as a percentage of gross revenue or net profit. Licensing fees, by contrast, are usually a fixed amount. 



Some businesses pay both licensing fees and royalties. For example, a franchisee might pay the parent franchiser an initial license fee for the right to use the franchise’s name and processes plus regular royalties based on sales. Those royalties often average 5% to 9% annually, depending on the franchise.




What Is Intellectual Property?
As the World International Property Organization, a United Nations agency, defines it, intellectual property refers to “creations of the mind, such as inventions; literary and artistic works; designs; and symbols, names and images used in commerce.” The legal ownership of intellectual property is protected by trademarks, copyrights, and patents.




Are Professional Licensing Fees Tax Deductible?
Usually, yes. According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), “Licenses and regulatory fees for your trade or business paid annually to state or local governments are generally deductible.”However, it adds, “Some licenses and fees may have to be amortized” over a period of 180 months. “For example,” the IRS writes, “you must amortize the capitalized costs of acquiring (including issuing or renewing) a liquor license, a taxicab medallion or license, or a television or radio broadcasting license.”




Is the Education Required for Licensing Tax Deductible?
In some cases, yes, although you must already be working in that field.As the IRS explains, “You must be able to show the education maintains or improves skills required in your trade or business, or that it is required by law or regulations, for keeping your license to practice, status, or job. For example, an attorney can deduct the cost of attending Continuing Legal Education (CLE) classes that are required by the state bar association to maintain his or her license to practice law.”However, the IRS adds, “Education expenses you incur to meet the minimum requirements of your present trade or business, or those that qualify you for a new trade or business, aren’t deductible.”


   The Bottom Line  

The term “licensing fee” has several meanings, depending on the context, but broadly speaking, it refers to money paid to another entity in return for a certain right.



For example, individuals or businesses must often pay licensing fees to a government agency in order to practice a certain profession or engage in a particular line of business. In another context, licensing fees can refer to money paid to the owner of copyrighted, trademarked, or patented intellectual property for the right to use that property.
What Is a Lien?  

A lien is a claim or legal right against assets that are typically used as collateral to satisfy a debt. A creditor or a legal judgment could establish a lien. A lien serves to guarantee an underlying obligation, such as the repayment of a loan. If the underlying obligation is not satisfied, the creditor may be able to seize the asset that is the subject of the lien. There are many types of liens that are used to secure assets.





Key Takeaways

A lien is a claim or legal right against assets that are usually used as collateral to satisfy a debt.The creditor may be able to seize the asset that is the subject of the lien.Bank, real estate, and tax are three types of liens.If a contract on a property is not paid, the lender has a legal right to seize and sell the property. Various types of liens can be established including by a creditor, legal judgment, or tax authority.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   How Liens Work  

A lien provides a creditor with the legal right to seize and sell the collateral property or asset of a borrower who fails to meet the obligations of a loan or contract. The owner cannot sell the property that is the subject of a lien without the consent of the lien holder. A floating lien refers to a lien on inventory or other unfixed property.



Liens can be voluntary or consensual, such as a lien on a property for a loan. However, involuntary or statutory liens exist whereby a creditor seeks legal action for nonpayment. As a result, a lien is placed on assets, including property and bank accounts.



Some liens are filed with the government to let the public know that the lienholder has an interest on the asset or property. A lien's public record tells anyone interested in purchasing the asset or collateral that the lien must be released before the asset can be sold.


   Types of Liens  

There are many types of liens and lien holders. Liens can be put in place by financial institutions, governments, and small businesses. Below are some of the most common liens.


  Bank Lien  

A lien is often granted when an individual takes out a loan from a bank to purchase an asset. For example, if an individual purchases a vehicle, the seller would be paid using the borrowed funds from the bank. In turn, the bank would be granted a lien on the vehicle. If the borrower does not repay the loan, the bank may execute the lien, seize the vehicle, and sell it to repay the loan.






If the borrower does repay the loan in full, the lien holder (the bank) then releases the lien, and the individual owns the car free and clear of any liens.


  Judgment Lien  

A judgment lien is a lien placed on assets by the courts, which is usually a result of a lawsuit. A judgment lien could help a defendant get paid back in a nonpayment case by liquidating the accused's assets.


  Mechanic's Lien  

A mechanic's lien can be attached to real property if the owner fails to pay a contractor for services rendered. If the debtor never pays, the contractor could go to court and get a judgment against the non-paying party whereby property or assets can be auctioned off to pay the lien holder. Many service providers have the option to place a lien to secure payment, including construction companies and dry cleaners. 


  Real Estate Lien  

A real estate lien is a legal right to seize and sell real estate property if a contract is not fulfilled. Some real estate liens are automatically put in place, such as in the case of a mortgage lien. When a party borrows money from a bank to purchase their home, the bank places a lien on the house until the mortgage is paid off.



However, some real estate liens are due to non-payment to a creditor or financial institution and as a result, are involuntary and nonconsensual liens.


  Tax Liens  

There are also several statutory liens, meaning liens created by law instead of those created by a contract. These liens are very common in the field of taxation, where laws often allow tax authorities to put liens on the property of delinquent taxpayers. For example, municipalities can use liens to recover unpaid property taxes.



In the United States, if a taxpayer becomes delinquent and does not demonstrate any indication of paying owed taxes, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may place a legal claim against a taxpayer's property, including the taxpayer's home, vehicle, and bank accounts. A notice of federal tax lien notifies creditors of the government's claim and can lead to a sheriff's sale. A sheriff's sale is a public auction whereby assets are repossessed, sold, and the generated funds are used to repay a debt to a creditor, bank, or the IRS.



A tax lien also affects the taxpayer's ability to sell existing assets and obtain credit. The only way to release a federal tax lien is to fully pay the tax owed or reach a settlement with the IRS. The IRS has the authority to seize a taxpayer's assets who ignore a tax lien. Typically, the IRS uses liens for delinquent taxes as a last resort, following all other options being exhausted, such as collection, installment repayment plans, and settlement.




What Is a Lien on My House?
When you buy a house using a mortgage, the lender has a legal right to seize your property, if you don't pay the mortgage. Your house basically is the collateral for the mortgage loan and when you borrow money to buy it, a mortgage lien is put on your house, until you pay off your mortgage.




What Does a Lien Mean?
A lien is simply the legal right of a lender to sell your property (a house or a car, for example) if don't meet your contractual obligations on the loan you took out to purchase it.




How Do I Get Rid of a Lien?
You can get rid of a lien on your property, car, or other asset by paying off your loan in full.
What Is a Lien Sale?  

A lien sale is the sale of the claim—or a hold—placed on an asset to satisfy an unpaid debt. Typically, lien sales are conducted as public auctions, and the lien is on real estate, automobiles, and other personal property.



Depending on a particular state's laws, contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers may put a lien on a piece of property they have worked on pending payment for services rendered.





Key Takeaways

A lien sale is the sale of the claim, or a hold placed on an asset, to satisfy an unpaid debt.Notices for lien sales might be posted online by the overseeing local agency as well as in local newspapers.There are limits to the interest rate amounts that a lien buyer can impose.


   How a Lien Sale Works  

Buying delinquent tax liens at a sale is becoming an increasingly popular form of investing and is similar to purchasing a long-term Certificate of Deposit (CD). However, unlike a CD, tax-liens cannot be sold back to the taxing authority and must be held until they are repaid. Redemption of the purchased lien is typically at a given rate of return within a specified time frame.



Lien sales for unpaid debts on a property can result in the amount owed increasing further. When the lien debt is sold, usually by a local government agency, the buyer can employ a lien servicing company that may add more fees and interest to the lien. This allows the buyer to see a return on their investment as the debtor must now pay the additional costs imposed.



In many instances, several notices of an impending lien sale will be sent to the debtor before a notice is filed stating the approaching date for the auction.



Although a debtor may owe taxes and other fees, there can be exceptions that will shelter their property and other assets from being subject to a lien sale. For example, disabled homeowners, senior citizens, and veterans could receive exemptions.



Active duty military personnel might also be eligible for an exemption for lien sales on their property. Each jurisdiction will have its own criteria, application process, and window of time when the responsible agency must be contacted.






Buying a home with a lien on it is not without complications.



There are limits to the interest rate amounts that a lien buyer can impose. Interest rate limits are set at the government level and vary by state. The bidding process is auction style, with the winner being the highest bidder. Because there is a limit to the maximum interest rate a winning bidder can charge, the amount the buyer pays for the lien is paramount.


   Example of Lien Sale  

As an example, if the maximum interest rate that can be charged for a lien is 12%, it is a good idea to put a limit on your highest bid. The lower the winning bid, the better. Since this is competitive, a buyer wants to limit the risk of not being paid back in a timely fashion.



Said simply, paying a 2% premium for the ability to charge up to a 12% interest rate is a lot better than paying a 9% premium.


   Special Considerations  

Owners of property that is subject to a lien sale can have their property removed from such sale by making payment arrangements to bring their outstanding debt up to date.



There may be special procedures for different types of lien sales, such as an auction for a vehicle of a certain value. How that is handled can differ from a lien sale for the contents of a self-storage unit if the owner fails to pay their bills to the storage company on time.



Notices for lien sales might be posted online by the overseeing local agency or in local newspapers.
What Is a Lien Waiver?  

A lien waiver is a written agreement between a payer and a counterparty where said counterparty gives up their right to place a lien on the payer's property or goods.





Key Takeaways

A lien waiver is a written agreement between a payer and a counterparty where said counterparty gives up their right to place a lien on the payer's property or goods.Lien waivers are often used in the construction industry throughout phases of projects.A lien waiver is similar to a receipt and can prevent a mechanic's lien from being filed.


   Understanding Lien Waivers  

A lien waiver is quite common in the construction business. Essentially, it is a document from a contractor, subcontractor, supplier, or another party who holds a mechanic's lien that states they have been paid in full and waive future lien rights to the disputed property.



In the United States, many states only recognize conditional waivers on progress payments and unconditional waivers upon final payments. Just as a mechanic's lien can be a great aid to those seeking payment for services rendered, a lien waiver can be beneficial for owners that have made full or partial payments.



Generally, there are four types of lien waivers:



An "Unconditional Waiver and Release Upon Progress Payment" discharges all claimant rights through a specific date with no stipulations.
A "Conditional Waiver and Release Upon Progress Payment" discharges all claimant rights through a specific date, provided the payments have actually been received and processed.
An "Unconditional Waiver and Release Upon Final Payment" extinguishes all claimant rights upon receipt of the payment.
A "Conditional Waiver and Release Upon Final Payment" extinguishes all claimant rights upon receipt of the final payment with certain provisions.


   How to Apply a Lien Waiver in the Construction and Development Process  

Lien waivers may see frequent use in the construction industry through many phases of a project. A lien waiver could be exchanged as each service is completed and payment is received by each party. Some parties will not release payment until a lien waiver is signed and delivered to them. It might not always be prudent to sign a lien waiver in advance of receiving payment. There is the possibility that a check might bounce or that the actual delivery of payment is otherwise delayed.



The lien waiver document serves as a form of receipt and eliminates the possibility of a mechanic's lien from being filed. The document is meant to guarantee that all parties are being properly provided for in their business relationship. They give paying parties the confidence of knowing that they won't be faced with making multiple payments for a single service. They can also speed up the payment process, allowing parties being paid to receive their payments sooner. Often, paying parties don't want to cut a check until a lien waiver has been signed. The sooner a lien waiver enters the business relationship, the faster payment can be made once the work is complete. The party receiving the payment may write its own lien waiver in order to be completely confident of signing away only lien rights.



If subcontractors are involved in a project, the complexity of receiving lien waivers can increase. The primary contractor might take action by issuing a lien waiver for the latest payment and lien waivers from subcontractors for earlier work on the project they have already received payment for. Lien waivers should outline the specific materials, work, and project they are issued for. If they do not, it is possible that the recipient of the lien waiver might claim the payment was for any project they wish, rather than the one in question and that the new payment is still required.
What Is a Life Annuity?  

The term life annuity refers to a financial product that features a predetermined periodic payout amount until the death of the annuity owner—called the annuitant. An annuitant typically pays into the annuity periodically when they are still working. Annuitants may also buy the annuity product in one large, lump-sum purchase—usually at retirement. Life annuities are commonly used to provide guaranteed and/or supplemental retirement income that cannot be outlived.





Key Takeaways

A life annuity is a financial product that features a predetermined periodic payout amount until the death of the annuitant.Annuitants pay premiums or make a lump-sum payment to secure a life annuity. Life annuities are commonly used to provide or supplement retirement income. While most life annuities make payments monthly, others pay distributions quarterly, semi-annually, or annually.


   How a Life Annuity Works  

Life annuities are insurance or investment products that provide the beneficiary with fixed payments at regular intervals—either monthly, quarterly, annually, or semi-annually. Life annuities, also known as lifetime annuities, are generally sold by insurance companies. They essentially act as longevity insurance, as the risk of outliving one's savings is passed on to the annuity issuer or provider.



Life annuities come in two different phases. The first is the accumulation phase or deferral stage. This is the period when the buyer funds their annuity with premiums or with a lump-sum payment. The second stage is the distribution or the annuitization phase. During this period, the issuer or insurance company makes regular payments to the annuitant.



Once funded and enacted, the annuity makes periodic payouts to the annuitant, thus providing a reliable source of income. The issuer normally stops making periodic payments if the annuitant dies or if another triggering event occurs to close the annuity. But these payments may continue to the annuitant's estate or beneficiary if the annuitant had purchased a rider or other option on the annuity.






Since most life annuity payouts stop after the death of an annuitant, you may need to purchase a rider if you want your beneficiary to continue receiving payments.



The majority of annuities generally pay a benefit every month, but some make quarterly, annual, or semi-annual payments. Payment intervals depend on the specific needs of the annuitant or their tax circumstances. Many retirees fund a life annuity to match their recurring housing costs—mortgage or rent—as well as any other costs, including assisted living, health care, insurance premiums, and medical expenses.



While a life annuity pays a guaranteed income, it is not indexed to inflation, which is the pace of price increases in an economy. As a result, purchasing power may erode over time. A life annuity, once enacted, is not revocable.


   Special Considerations  

It's important for people to consult a reputable professional before purchasing any annuity product. That's because annuity products tend to be fairly complex in nature with major implications for the annuitant's standard of living. Due to the tax-preferred nature of annuities, very wealthy investors or above-average income earners often use these life insurance products to transfer large sums of money or to mitigate the effects of taxes on their annual income.



While life annuities are often used to provide or supplement retirement income, they are also used as a payment method in structured settlements and for lottery winners. For instance, if someone wins a lawsuit, they may be provided with a series of fixed, regular payments to the beneficiary. Lottery winners may opt to take a lottery annuity rather than a fixed, lump-sum when they win large jackpots. These payouts provide regular payments annually over a certain number of years. For example, a Mega Millions jackpot winner can choose to take 30 payments—one paid out immediately. The remaining payments are distributed annually for the next 29 years.


   Types of Annuities  

There are several types of life annuities, each with its own benefits and purpose, and they include:


  Immediate Annuity  

An immediate annuity only has a distribution phase, as is also the case with a payout annuity, an income annuity, or a single-premium immediate annuity.


  Guaranteed Annuity  

A guaranteed annuity—also called a year's certain annuity or a period certain annuity—pays out for a certain period and continues to make payments to a beneficiary or estate after the annuitant's death.


  Fixed Annuity  

A fixed annuity pays out a fixed percentage or interest rate on the owner's contributions into the annuity.


  Variable Annuity  

A variable annuity pays out based on the performance of a basket of investments or an index. Variable annuities offer the potential for higher returns or payouts when markets are performing well. However, they also contain more risk than fixed annuities since the account could decline in value when the markets perform poorly.


  Joint Annuity  

A joint annuity makes payouts until both spouses die, sometimes at a reduced amount after the death of the first spouse.


  Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract (QLAC)  

A qualified longevity annuity contract (QLAC) is a type of deferred annuity that is purchased using funds from a qualified retirement plan or an individual retirement account (IRA). A QLAC annuity provides monthly payments until death and is exempt from the required minimum distribution (RMD) rules from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In 2020 and 2021, an individual can spend 25% or $135,000 (whichever is less) of their retirement savings account or IRA to buy a QLAC.﻿﻿
What Is a Life Cycle?  

The term life cycle refers to the course of events that leads from the beginning to the end of a product, business, or industry. This means that a life cycle brings new products, companies, and industries into existence, sees them grow, and eventually leads to their critical mass and decline. There are several key steps that life cycles take, including development, growth, and decline. Understanding how the life cycle works can give investors and others a better understanding of how to invest their money.





Key Takeaways

A life cycle in business follows a product, business, or industry from development to decline.Product life cycles are the most common and include the following stages: development, introduction into the market, growth, maturity, and decline. Companies may still be profitable during and after they've reached their peak. Growth can still take place during the maturity phase of the life cycle.Investors should understand how life cycles work in order to make more informed decisions about their money. 


   How the Life Cycle Works  

The idea of a cycle in a business context is borrowed from biology. In biology, a life cycle represents a series of changes that an organism undergoes, from birth to death. Extended to a business setting, an entity's formation and eventual decline follow a similar path to biological applications.



The life cycle represents the entire existence or life of something in the marketplace. This includes products and services, businesses and corporations, and even industries. In most cases, even the economy goes through a life cycle. We look at each of these in more detail a little further down.



Throughout each of these types of life cycles, there is a development, maturity, and decline phase. As such, the life cycle represents the length of time it takes for a product to be introduced in the market until it is eventually removed.






The life cycle is also commonly referred to as the business life cycle.


   Special Considerations  

There is a misconception that growth tends to stop when a product or business hits its peak in the market. In certain cases, profits may dip or a business owner may consider selling their company during this period. This may be the case for startups and newer businesses.



But this isn't a one-size-fits-all approach. In fact, reaching the maturity stage can often mean that growth continues, as margin improvements and innovations translate to an increase in income. Although growth can still happen when a product hits maturity, a more mature firm with older products may be more likely to issue dividends than firms in the other phases.



This is why investors need to understand the life cycle works. Doing so can help them make better and more informed decisions about how to invest their money. For instance, it's important to note that firms that are predominately in the development phase are generally characterized by lower sales and are more speculative in nature than firms in the growth or maturity phase.


   Types of Life Cycles  

As mentioned above, there are different types of life cycles that take place. The most common ones that are discussed are the product, business, and industry life cycles. But there are others that take place in the realms of finance and investment that people should understand.


  Product Life Cycle  

One of the most common types of life cycles is the product life cycle. This deals with how long products last in the market from development to decline by different companies, whether they are new/startups or established corporations.



The following are the five steps involved in the life cycle of a product (or service):



Product Development Phase: This phase includes market analysis, product design, conception, and testing of a product or service. Funds from the initial start-up are typically used for this phase, and if revenue is low and development costs are high, it can be a period of low cash flow for the company.
Market Introduction Phase: This marketing phase includes the initial release of the product, usually marked with high levels of advertising. At this stage, the company may be spending its capital in the hope of generating revenue in its next phase. The money for this phase usually comes from early investors, company owners, or suppliers.
Growth Phase: This phase is when sales growth begins to accelerate, characterized by increasing sales year-over-year. As production levels increase, economies of scale may occur generating better margins. As such, more investment in growth is required. An increase in competition is probable, gross margins might then decline, making the product less profitable on a per-unit basis but the volume is higher. Cash flow and capital might come from profits, bank loans, partnerships, and rounds of investments from venture capital firms.
Maturity Phase: In this stage of growth, a product will reach its peak demand in the cycle. Further spending on advertising will have little to no effect on increasing demand because it plateaus, and the cash flow streams come from higher profits due to economies of scale, established branding, supplier credit terms helping working capital due to volume buying, bank financing due to the business strong financial health. Private equity firms are interested in this cycle stage and company profiles.
Decline/Stability Phase: The decline/stability phase arrives when a product has reached or passed its point of highest demand. At this point, demand will either remain steady or slowly decline as a newer product makes it obsolete.


  Business Life Cycle  

Businesses also have their own life cycle. This means they go through various stages that lead from their creation to their decline—just like products. The following are the most common stages in the life cycle of a company:



Startup: This phase is characterized by research and development (R&D). This includes the type of business, the products and services they intend to sell, the costs associated with running the business, and how the company will be run, among other things. A business model is key during this stage, as it helps keep the owner(s) on track and can mean the difference between getting financing/raising initial capital and struggling to get off the ground. Once this is all done, the stage is set and the company can officially launch. 
Growth: This is the stage at which companies distinguish themselves from their competition in the market. Owners tend to (and should) focus on ways to grow and expand. This includes focusing on client relationships, increasing business investment, and seeking capital. Some companies may take on debt to finance their growth or may consider going public through an initial public offering (IPO). This is also a good time for business owners to identify and address any areas that may challenge or stunt growth. 
Maturity: The business should be established in the market by this point with a strong management team and dedicated employees. Annual growth should be consistent and there may even be opportunities for acquisitions, whether that's of a rival business or a new product line. Company owners may also want to consider spinning off business lines and/or products if this makes sense. Owners may want to reinvest their money for further growth or decide if it's time to cash out and sell their stakes. 
Decline: Revenue may rise and fall during the maturity stage. But if there are consistent drops, there's a good chance it's in decline. In order to save the company, a business owner should look at ways to turn it around. This may come through innovation. If this isn't possible, the only way to move forward is to reinvest or sell. Keep in mind that investment will cost more during this stage than the previous one and selling may be more difficult and come with a lower reward. 



Understanding how these stages work can make a big difference to investors and, more importantly, to business owners. Many businesses fail to get off the ground during the startup phase because owners don't take enough time and rush through the process. Those who are well-prepared can ride the waves and better navigate themselves through any challenges that may arise to success.


  Industry and Economy Life Cycle  

Industries and economies often follow the same stages during their life cycles. These include:



Expansion: Rapid growth, higher production levels, and lower interest rates occur during this time. Other factors that make up this stage include an uptick in employment, supply and demand of goods and services, and profits. There is the threat of inflationary pressures increasing when the economy expands too quickly.
Peak: Growth hits the maximum rate during this stage. There are several key characteristics that stand out during this period—notably, a short-term stabilization in prices. This can be followed by a reversal downward. As such, there are normally imbalances that arise during the peak, which require correcting.
Contraction: A slowdown of growth leads to a correction. This is characterized by higher unemployment, a drop in consumer demand, and higher supplies. Businesses and individuals start to curb costs and spending. Prices reach such a high point in the economy that intervention may be needed, such as increasing interest rates and/or increasing the money supply.
Trough: This is the point where industries and economies reach their lowest point. For instance, demand wanes to the point where consumers don't spend as freely as before. Although things may be tough, the trough does provide an opportunity for companies and individuals to restructure their finances and their budgets.



The analysis of a business or company can show the stage a company is in and the same is true for an economy. By analyzing the four stages of a company's industry life cycle, financial decisions, like estimating forward-earning ratios and projecting future financial earnings and performance, can be made with greater knowledge.






If we think of the economy and commerce as a "living organization," adapting and transforming to its surroundings, we can find many biological analogies for business challenges, such as "survival of the fittest."


   Examples of Life Cycles  
  Tab Soda  

Coca-Cola released this diet soda in 1963, decades before Diet Coke's heyday. Tab was the company's first foray into the diet drink market. The drink became popular in the 1970s and early 1980s. But its popularity fizzled out when Diet Coke created a decline in the Tab's market share.



Coca-Cola discontinued Tab in 2020, along with other products that were underperforming. This discontinuation marked the decline life cycle phase for the once-popular diet beverage.


  Electric Cars  

Electric cars are in their growth cycle as of April 2021. The global Electric Vehicles Market was worth approximately $140 billion in 2019, the most recent figures made available by Facts & Factors, which published a 175-page research report on the electric vehicle market.



The electric car is a prime example of a product in the growth phase. It is estimated that by 2026, the electric car market will hit $700 billion. And it's not just Tesla running the electric car charge anymore. Top market players also include Kia, Hyundai, BMW, Volkswagon, Ford, and Toyota.




What Are the Stages of a Product Life Cycle?
The product life cycle is the time it takes to go from development to decline. Put simply, the life cycle for a product takes place from conception to the time it is removed from the market.




In What Stage of the Business Life Cycle Does Seed Financing Occur?
Seed financing is a form of financing that is used to help businesses, their products, and services get off the ground. As such, seed financing is typically required and used during the first or the development stage.




What Impact Does the Life Cycle Have on a Small Business?
Businesses of any kind or size are affected by a life cycle. This means that if a small business can experience growth and maturity if it makes a product or provides a service to its customers. It can also go into decline, which means the business could fail if challenges aren't properly addressed.




In Which Part of the Business Life Cycle Does Facebook Fall?
Meta (formerly Facebook) may be in the maturity phase. This means that it may be heading into decline or stability, according to various sources, including GWS Technologies.


   The Bottom Line  

In business, a life cycle is a way to describe the birth, growth and maturation, and eventual decline of a product or service. By understanding the sequence of events in a life cycle, companies can make better financial decisions. These steps include product development, market introduction, growth, maturity, and decline/stability, and in many ways, mirror the biological life cycle of a living organism.



Managing the lifecycle of a product is helpful in many ways for a company, from getting a better understanding of how to improve on a new product, increasing marketing and sales, and reducing errors or waste, like the packaging.
What Is a Life-Cycle Fund?  

Life-cycle funds are asset-allocation funds in which the share of each asset class is automatically adjusted to lower risk as the desired retirement date approaches. As a practical matter, this usually means that the percentage of bonds and other fixed-income investments increases. Life-cycle funds are also known as "age-based funds" or "target-date retirement funds."



A young investor saving for retirement would typically choose a life-cycle fund with a target date that is 30 to 40 years away. However, an investor nearing retirement age might be planning a working retirement with some income from a small business. Such an investor could select a life-cycle fund with a target date that is 15 years in the future. Accepting higher volatility can help to stretch retirement funds over the 20 or more years of old age most individuals can expect.






Life-cycle funds are based on the idea that young investors can handle more risk, but this is not always true.


   How a Life-Cycle Fund Works  

Life-cycle funds are designed to be used by investors with specific goals that require capital at set times. These funds are generally used for retirement investing. However, investors can use them whenever they need capital at a specific time in the future. Each life-cycle fund defines its time horizon by naming the fund with a target date.



An example will help to explain how a life-cycle fund works. Suppose that you invest in a life-cycle fund with a target retirement date of 2050 in 2020. At first, the fund will be aggressive. In 2020, the fund might hold 80% stocks and 20% bonds. Each year, there will be more bonds and fewer stocks in the fund. By 2035, you should be halfway to the retirement date. The fund would be 60% stocks and 40% bonds in 2035. Finally, the fund would reach 40% stocks and 60% bonds by the target retirement date of 2050.


   Benefits of Life-Cycle Funds  

For investors with a targeted need for capital at a specific date, life-cycle funds offer the advantage of convenience. Life-cycle fund investors can easily put their investing activities on autopilot with just one fund. The fixed asset allocations of life-cycle funds promise to give investors the right balanced portfolio for them each year. For investors who seek to take a very passive approach to retirement, a life-cycle fund may be appropriate.



Most life-cycle funds also have the advantage of a preset glide path. A preset path offers investors greater transparency, which gives them more confidence in the fund. A life-cycle fund's glide path provides for steadily decreasing risk over time by shifting asset allocations toward low-risk investments. Investors can also expect a life-cycle fund to be managed through the target retirement date.


   Criticisms of Life-Cycle Funds  

Some critics of life-cycle funds say that their age-based approach is flawed. In particular, the age of the bull market may be more important than the age of the investor. Legendary investor Benjamin Graham suggested adjusting investments in stocks and bonds based on market valuations rather than your age. Building on Graham's work, Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller advocated using the P/E 10 ratio as a measure of stock market valuation.



Life-cycle funds are based on the idea that young investors can handle more risk, but this is not always true. Younger workers usually have less money saved, and they almost always have less experience. As a result, younger workers are exceptionally vulnerable to unemployment during recessions. A young investor who takes on high levels of risk might be forced to sell stocks at the worst possible time.



Investors might also prefer a more active approach. Those investors should seek a financial advisor or use other types of funds to meet their investment goals.





KEY TAKEAWAYS

Life-cycle funds are asset-allocation funds in which the share of each asset class is automatically adjusted to lower risk as the desired retirement date approaches. Life-cycle funds are designed to be used by investors with specific goals that require capital at set times.For investors who seek to take a very passive approach to retirement, a life-cycle fund may be appropriate.Legendary investor Benjamin Graham suggested adjusting investments in stocks and bonds based on market valuations rather than your age.Life-cycle funds are based on the idea that young investors can handle more risk, but this is not always true.


   Real World Example of a Life-Cycle Fund  

The Vanguard Target Retirement 2065 Trusts are one example of life-cycle funds. In July 2017, Vanguard launched its life-cycle offering for 2065, the Vanguard Target Retirement 2065 Trusts. The fund offers an example of how life-cycle funds transition their allocations for risk management.



The Vanguard Target Retirement 2065 asset allocation remains fixed for the first 20 years, with approximately 90% in equities and 10% in bonds. For the next 25 years leading to the target date, the allocation gradually moves more toward bonds. At the target date, the asset allocation is approximately 50% in equities, 40% in bonds, and 10% in short-term TIPS. The allocation to bonds and short-term TIPS gradually continues to increase in the seven years following the target date. After that, the allocation is fixed at approximately 30% stocks, 50% bonds, and 20% short-term TIPS.
What Is the Life-Cycle Hypothesis (LCH)?  

The life-cycle hypothesis (LCH) is an economic theory that describes the spending and saving habits of people over the course of a lifetime. The theory states that individuals seek to smooth consumption throughout their lifetime by borrowing when their income is low and saving when their income is high.



The concept was developed by economists Franco Modigliani and his student Richard Brumberg in the early 1950s.





Key Takeaways

The Life-Cycle Hypothesis (LCH) is an economic theory developed in the early 1950s that posits that people plan their spending throughout their lifetimes, factoring in their future income.A graph of the LCH shows a hump-shaped pattern of wealth accumulation that is low during youth and old age and high in middle age.One implication is that younger people have a greater capacity to take investment risks than older individuals who need to draw down accumulated savings.


   Understanding the Life-Cycle Hypothesis  

The LCH assumes that individuals plan their spending over their lifetimes, taking into account their future income. Accordingly, they take on debt when they are young, assuming future income will enable them to pay it off. They then save during middle age in order to maintain their level of consumption when they retire.



A graph of an individual's spending over time thus shows a hump-shaped pattern in which wealth accumulation is low during youth and old age and high during middle age.






   Life-Cycle Hypothesis vs. Keynesian Theory  

The LCH replaced an earlier hypothesis developed by economist John Maynard Keynes in 1937. Keynes believed that savings were just another good and that the percentage that individuals allocated to their savings would grow as their incomes rose. This presented a potential problem in that it implied that as a nation’s incomes grew, a savings glut would result, and aggregate demand and economic output would stagnate.



Another problem with Keynes' theory is that he did not address people's consumption patterns over time. For example, an individual in middle age who is the head of a family will consume more than a retiree. Although subsequent research has generally supported the LCH, it also has its problems.






The LCH has largely supplanted Keynesian economic thinking about spending and savings patterns.


   Special Considerations for the Life-Cycle Hypothesis  

The LCH makes several assumptions. For example, the theory assumes that people deplete their wealth during old age. Often, however, the wealth is passed on to children, or older people may be unwilling to spend their wealth. The theory also assumes that people plan ahead when it comes to building wealth, but many procrastinate or lack the discipline to save.



Another assumption is that people earn the most when they are of working age. However, some people choose to work less when they are relatively young and continue working part-time when they reach retirement age.



As a result, one implication is that younger people are more able to take on investment risks than older individuals, which remains a widely accepted tenet of personal finance.



Other assumptions of note are that those with high incomes are more able to save and have greater financial savvy than those on low incomes. People with low incomes may have credit card debt and less disposable income. Lastly, safety nets or means-tested benefits for aging adults may discourage people from saving as they anticipate receiving a higher social security payment when they retire.
What Is a Life Estate?  

A life estate is a property—usually a residence—that an individual owns and may use for the duration of their lifetime. Called the life tenant, this person shares ownership of the property with a second person. The second person is called the remainderman and automatically receives the title to the property upon the life tenant's death.



In the U.S., homeowners most often create life estates to ensure that the next generation eventually gets the family home while avoiding probate, the legal process of proving a will.





Key Takeaways

A life estate is a type of legal joint property ownership.Under a life estate, the owners have the right to use the property for life.Typically, the life estate process is adopted to streamline inheritance while avoiding probate.The life tenant retains all the rights and responsibilities of an owner except the right to sell or mortgage the property.


   Understanding a Life Estate  

A life estate is a form of joint homeownership. Ownership is shared between a life tenant and a so-called "remainderman." As the name suggests, the remainderman has an ownership interest but cannot take possession until the life tenant's death. The life tenant may live in the home but may not sell it or mortgage it without the agreement of the remainderman.



The life estate is established with a deed that states that the occupant(s) of the property is allowed to use it for the duration of their lives. The deed will also name the person who will receive the property after the life tenant's death. 






In France, a homebuyer can arrange a life tenancy with an elderly homeowner and pay that person a regular income in return for being named as the designated remainderman. This is called a viager.



Within a life estate, the life estate deed is a document that grants the owner the ability to pass on ownership of a property without including it in a will as part of a person's assets. As a result, the property does not have to go through probate—the court process used to validate wills. The probate process can be costly and complicated when the estate is very substantial or unusually complex.



If there is a life estate, the life tenant's interest in the property ends at death, and ownership is transferred to the remainderman. The life tenant is the property owner for life and is responsible for costs such as property taxes, insurance, and maintenance. Additionally, the life tenant also retains any tax benefits of homeownership.


   Life Insurance As an Income Stream  

While a life estate is usually created to streamline the transfer of homeownership to the next generation, it can also be used to establish an income stream.



Life estates can be created to provide a life-long income for a person rather than a lump-sum inheritance. In this case, the estate consists of money invested in income-producing instruments, such as bonds, oil and gas leases, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and other similar investments. Under this arrangement, the life tenant receives income for life, but they cannot access the principal amount.



No matter what type of property is involved in a life estate, the life tenant cannot sell it or borrow money against it without the agreement of the remainderman. If both agree to the sale, the remainderman could demand a portion of the proceeds based on a predetermined scale that reflects the life tenant’s age and current interest rates. Typically, the older the life tenant, the greater the share the remainderman can expect to receive.


   How to Create a Life Estate  

Once you've considered creating a life estate and have decided it's what you need, there are only a few steps:



Consult an attorney: An attorney can help you finalize your decision and become more familiar with the estate laws in your area.Draft your life estate deed: It is possible to draft the deed yourself, but you're better off hiring an attorney to do it for you so there are no errors, mistakes, or omissions.Record your life estate deed: Take your deed to the county clerk or recorder's office. It needs to be filed with the county to be valid.


   Alternatives to a Life Estate  

A life estate is an excellent tool for securing your assets to pass to your beneficiaries and bypass lengthy probate, but it isn't the only option available. You can also create a:



Transfer-on-death-deed: This deed passes on real estate to your heirs after your death. You can change this deed anytime, making it a flexible alternative to a life estate.Revocable living trust: You place the assets in this trust to protect them from creditors and probate. It can also be revoked or changed and is another flexible alternative to a life estate.Irrevocable living trust: As the name implies, you place your estate in this trust and cannot revoke it. Once the assets are in it, you no longer "own" them and cannot change the terms of the trust unless a court rules in your favor.


   Life Estate and Medicaid  

Medicaid is a state program that ensures people who need to move into a long-term care facility can receive the care. To qualify for Medicaid, you cannot own more than your state allows unless under specific conditions. Medicaid also seeks reimbursement after you die from any estate you may have left.



Medicaid commonly targets a recipient's house because it is generally their most valuable asset. For example, it might place a lien on the house or try to force a sale to recoup the cost of your long-term care.






Under a life estate, the home is no longer an asset of the individual's estate. That shields it from lawsuits, including Medicaid estate recovery.


   Types of Life Estates  

There are two types of life estates—traditional and enhanced. The enhanced version is typically called a "Lady Bird" deed, commonly thought to have originated when President Johnson transferred property to his wife, Lady Bird Johnson, when he died. However, the practice is much older than that.



The enhanced version differs from the traditional only in that the life tenant can sell the property or take out a mortgage against it without the remainderman's consent, and that it can be revoked.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Life Estates  

Life estates carry both advantages and disadvantages. The most notable advantage of the life estate is that it simplifies the transfer of a home to the next generation. If the home is included in the homeowner's will, the probate process may delay the transfer. If there is a life estate, the transfer is automatic when a death certificate is filed.



One other potential advantage: the home is no longer an asset of the estate. If a person is enrolled in Medicaid and receives services paid by it, state governments may sue the estate to recover the costs. A life estate protects it from "Medicaid estate recovery."



In addition to legal benefits, there are potential tax benefits:



The life tenant may be eligible for some homestead or senior tax breaks as a homeowner.The remainderman may receive a substantial capital gains tax break when and if the house is sold (since its tax valuation will be based on its value at the time of the life tenant's death, not at the time it was purchased by the life tenant).



However, there is a potential legal disadvantage as well: the life tenant may become involved in any legal problems that a remainderman incurs. For example, if a parent and a child have created a life estate and the child is sued for nonpayment of taxes, a lien could be filed against the parent’s home. 



In any case, creating a life estate is a serious and binding decision for a homeowner. They are giving up the option of selling or mortgaging the home (unless the remainderman agrees) and making an irrevocable choice of an heir to the house.





Pros

Simplifies the transfer of a home to the next generation
Protects the home from debtors of the deceased
Allows older homeowners to retain the benefits of home ownership



Cons

Makes the owner vulnerable to debt actions brought against the remainderman
Can't be undone easily if the owner's plans or circumstances change
Restricts owner's ability to mortgage or sell property





   Life Estate vs. Irrevocable Trust  

Like a life estate, an irrevocable trust is often a tool for estate planning. As in a life estate, the irrevocable trust removes assets from the grantor's estate. Specifically, the grantor relinquishes all rights to some assets and income, transferring them to a trust. The assets may be cash, investments, or life insurance policies. The trust's beneficiary may be a spouse, the grantor's children, or a charitable organization.



A life estate is also "irrevocable." Once a life estate deed is filed, the life tenant cannot alter the agreement without the consent of the remainderman.



An irrevocable trust does have its uses, however. A trust can reduce a person's wealth on paper while transferring that wealth to family members. It also removes some of the person's assets from an estate, eliminating them from the probate process.



A trust can be a valuable strategy for a professional vulnerable to lawsuits—such as a physician—because it protects some of their assets by transferring them to family members under a trust.






Unlike a life estate, a trust may not provide a benefit, such as a residence, to the grantor.


   Example of a Life Estate  

A life estate agreement is usually undertaken as an aspect of estate planning. For example, an older couple might consider a life estate arrangement as an alternative to naming a beneficiary in their wills. A life estate agreement gives them the right to stay in their home for the rest of their lives. Then, when they are both deceased, an adult child or children will automatically take title to the property.



A widowed homeowner who can no longer live alone might create a life estate agreement with an adult child as the remainderman. The parent and child now co-own the home, but the parent retains lifetime rights to use the home. Both assure that home ownership will pass to the child without delay or interruption.




What Is a Life Estate for Dummies?
A life estate is a legal document that splits ownership of property, so that the first party retains rights to use the property and the second party retains rights to inherit it.




What Are the Disadvantages of a Life Estate?
If you have a life estate on a property, you cannot refinance, sell, or alter it without the remainderman's (the second party) permission.




Who Pays the Inheritance Tax When the Life Tenant Dies?
If an estate is subject to an inheritance tax, the life tenant's estate is responsible for paying the tax.




Who Owns the Property in a Life Estate?
The property is owned by all designated parties in a life estate deed. However, the life tenant retains the right to occupy the estate.


   The Bottom Line  

Creating a life estate is a reasonable way for homeowners to ensure that their home will be passed on to the person they want it to be, with minimal legal fuss or delay. However, a life estate should only be established with the full understanding that it can't be undone easily. The homeowner is giving up the right to sell the property or get a mortgage on it without the cooperation of the remainderman.
What Is Life Expectancy?  

Life expectancy is the statistical age that a person is expected to live until, based on actuarial data. There are many uses for it in the financial world, including life insurance, pension planning, and U.S. Social Security benefits. In most countries, the calculations for this actuarial age is derived from a national statistical agency based on large amounts of data.





Key Takeaways

Life expectancy is a statistical prediction for how long a person will live.Based on actuarial science, life expectancy takes into account several individual-level as well as population-level factors to arrive at a figure.Life expectancy is used in pricing and underwriting life insurance and insurance products like annuities, as well as in retirement and pension planning.


   Understanding Life Expectancy  

Life expectancy is the single most influential factor that insurance companies use to determine life insurance premiums. Using actuarial tables provided by the Internal Revenue Service, these companies try to minimize the liability risk.



There are several factors that affect your life expectancy, the two single most important being when you were born and your gender. Additional factors that can influence your life expectancy include:



Your racePersonal healthFamily medical historyWhether you smoke cigarettes or make other risky lifestyle choices



You can view the federal government's data on U.S. life expectancy on the National Center for Health Statistic's website and the Social Security Administration's Actuarial Period Life Table.



It's important to note that life expectancy changes over time. That's because as you age, actuaries use complex formulas that factor out people who are younger than you but who have died. As you continue to age past mid-life, you outlive an increasing number of people who are younger than you, so your life expectancy actually increases. In other words, the older you get (past a certain age), the older you are likely to get.



Overall, human life expectancy has been rapidly increasing during the past two hundred years, particularly in developing countries. In 2021, the average life expectancy in the United States was 76.1 years.


   Life Expectancy and Life Insurance  

Life expectancy is the primary factor in determining an individual's risk factor and the likelihood they will make a claim. Insurance companies consider age, lifestyle choices, family medical history, and several other factors when determining premium rates for individual life insurance policies.



There is a direct correlation between your life expectancy and how much you'll be charged for a life insurance policy. The younger you are when you purchase a life insurance policy, the longer you are likely to live. That means there is a lower risk to the life insurance company because you are less likely to die in the near term, which would require a payout of the full benefit of your policy before you have paid much into the policy.



Conversely, the longer you wait to purchase life insurance, the lower your life expectancy, and that translates into a higher risk for the life insurance company. Companies compensate for that risk by charging a higher premium.



The principle of life expectancy suggests that you should purchase a life insurance policy for yourself and your spouse sooner rather than later. Not only will you save money through lower premium costs, but you will also have longer for your policy to accumulate value and become a potentially significant financial resource as you age.


   Retirement and Annuity Planning  

Life expectancy is critical for retirement planning. Many aging workers arrange their retirement plans' asset allocations based on a prediction of how long they expect to live. Personal, rather than statistical, life expectancy is a primary factor in the character of a retirement plan. When couples are planning for retirement or annuity payments, they often use a joint life expectancy in which they take the life expectancy of their partner (who may become the beneficiary of a retirement fund or annuity plan) into account as well.



Most retirement plans, including the traditional and Roth, SEP, and SIMPLE IRA plans, also use life expectancy to determine the implementation of required minimum distributions(RMDs) for the plan. Most retirement plans expect participants to begin taking at least the RMD by the time they reach the age of 72 (or age 73, starting in 2023). Retirement plans set distributions on the IRS life expectancy tables. Some qualified plans may allow RMD distributions to begin at a later date.






Due to an increase in life expectancy, Congress adjusted the required minimum distribution age from 70½ to 72 in 2019, and again to age 73 starting in the year 2023.



Your life expectancy is also a significant factor when arranging annuity payments with an insurance company. In an annuity contract, the insurance company agrees to pay a certain amount of money for a fixed period or until the policyholder's death. It's important to take life expectancy into account when negotiating annuity contracts. If you agree to receive payouts for a specific period, it is tantamount to estimate how long you might expect to live. You may also elect to use a single-life annuity payment plan in which annuity payments will cease after your death.




What Is the Average Life Expectancy in the US?
The average lifespan at birth for a woman in the United States is 79.1 years as of 2021, according to the Centers for Disease Control. The average lifespan for men at birth was 73.2 years. This represents a decline from prior years, largely due to drug overdoses, accidents, and the COVID-19 pandemic. The overall life expectancy is 76.1 years.




How Does Life Expectancy Factor in to Insurance?
Life insurance companies use mortality tables to estimate the life expectancy of their policyholders, based on the statistical averages for people with similar ages and health. This allows them to predict how much money they will have to pay out in claims.




How Does Life Expectancy Factor in to Taxes?
When you retire, the IRS uses actuarial tables to estimate your remaining lifespan during retirement. This number is used to calculate your required minimum distributions—the mandatory withdrawals from certain tax-advantaged retirement accounts that you must take starting at age 73.
What Does Life Income Fund Mean?  

A life income fund (LIF) is a type of registered retirement income fund (RRIF) offered in Canada that can be used to hold locked-in pension funds as well as other assets for an eventual payout as retirement income.



A life income fund cannot be withdrawn in a lump sum. Owners must use the fund in a manner that supports retirement income for their lifetime. Each year's Income Tax Act specifies the minimum and maximum withdrawal amounts for RRIFs, which encompasses LIFs.



The Income Tax Act’s RRIF stipulations take into consideration fund balances and an annuity factor.





Key Takeaways

Life income funds are a type of retirement income vehicle used in Canada.The Canadian government regulates various aspects of life income funds, in particular the amounts that can be withdrawn, which are specified annually through the Income Tax Act’s stipulations for RRIFs.You must be at least of early retirement age (specified in the pension legislation) to purchase a LIF, you must be at least of early retirement age or normal retirement date to begin receiving LIF payments, and you must begin receiving payments in the year after you turn 71.Advantages of a LIF include the fact that contributions grow tax-deferred within a LIF, owners can choose their own investments (as long as the investments qualify), and funds within a LIF are creditor-protected.Life income funds are offered by many institutions in Canada.


   Understanding Life Income Fund  

Life income funds are offered by Canadian financial institutions. They provide individuals with an investment vehicle for managing the payouts from locked-in pension funds and other assets.



In many cases, pension assets may be held but not accessible if an employee leaves a firm. These assets, usually called locked-in assets, can be managed in other investment vehicles but may require conversion to a life income fund when the owner is ready to begin taking withdrawals.



Life income fund payouts are determined by a government formula that applies to all types of RRIFs. Most provinces in Canada require that life income fund assets be invested in a life annuity. In many provinces, LIF withdrawals can begin at any age as long as the income is used for retirement income.



Once an investor begins taking LIF payouts they must monitor the minimum and maximum amounts that can be withdrawn. These amounts are disclosed in the annual Income Tax Act, which provides stipulations pertaining to all RRIFs. The maximum RRIF/LIF withdrawal is the larger of two formulas, both defined as a percentage of the total investments.



The financial institution from which the LIF is issued must provide an annual statement to the LIF owner.



Based on the annual statement, the LIF owner must specify at the beginning of each fiscal year the amount of income they would like to withdraw. This must be within a defined range to ensure the account holds enough funds to provide lifetime income for the LIF owner.






Qualified investments in a LIF include cash, mutual funds, ETFs, securities listed on a designated exchange, corporate bonds, and government bonds.


   Life Income Fund (LIF) Rules  

Here are some general rules regarding a LIF:



A life income fund abides by RRIF minimum withdrawal rulesWithdrawals are considered income and are taxed at your marginal tax rateYou can't use your spouse's age to determine minimum LIF paymentsYou must be at least of early retirement age (specified in the pension legislation) to purchase a LIFYou must be at least of early retirement age or normal retirement date to begin receiving LIF paymentsYou must begin receiving payments in the year after you turn 71If you have a spouse, you must obtain their consent before setting up a LIF as withdrawals could impact future death benefitsOnly certain types of investments qualify in a LIF


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Life Income Fund (LIF)  

Setting up a LIF has several advantages:



Like other registered products, contributions grow tax-deferred within a LIFLIF owners can choose their own investments (as long as the investments qualify)Funds within a LIF are creditor-protected and can't be seized to pay off debt obligationsContributions can grow tax-deferred until the year after you turn 71



Of course, there also disadvantages to setting up a LIF. They include:



A minimum age requirement (early retirement age) before being able to start a LIFA minimum age requirement (early retirement or normal retirement age) before being able to receive LIF paymentsMaximum withdrawal limits prevent you from accessing more income when you need itOnly qualified investments can be held in a LIF account





Advantages of a Life Income Fund

Contributions grow tax-deferred within a LIF account
LIF owners can choose their own investments (as long as the investments qualify)
Funds within a LIF are creditor-protected and can't be seized to pay off debt obligations
Contributions can grow tax-deferred until the year after you turn 71



Disadvantages of a Life Income Fund

A minimum age requirement (early retirement age) before being able to start a LIF
A minimum age requirement (early retirement or normal retirement age) before being able to receive LIF payments
Maximum withdrawal limits prevent you from accessing more income when you need it
Only qualified investments can be held in a LIF account





   Life Income Fund Management  

Life income funds are offered by many institutions in Canada to support retirement distributions for investors. Below is a list of companies offering life income funds with some details on each company’s product.



Sun Life Financial: Offers investors multiple options for LIF investing including insurance guaranteed investment contracts, mutual funds, segregated fund contracts, and more.



Canada Life: Allows for conversion of a registered pension plan, locked-in registered retirement savings plan, or locked-in retirement account assets. Facilitates payment withdrawals for retirement income.



Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce: The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce offers a LIF daily interest savings account. Helps to facilitate retirement distributions. Allows investors to earn daily interest on their account investments.


   Life Income Fund FAQs  
  At What Age Can You Withdraw Money From a LIF?  

You can withdraw money at 55 years old. No withdrawals from a LIF are permitted before age 55.


  Is LIF Income Taxable?  

Yes. LIF income is taxable and must be added to your annual income. If the withdrawal is higher than the annual minimum withdrawal, taxes are withheld on the excess amount.


  What Happens to a LIF When You Die?  

Upon death, the balance of your LIF is paid to your spouse. If your spouse denies payment or if a spouse is absent, it is paid to your heirs.
What Is Life Insurance?  

Life insurance is a contract between a life insurance company and a policy owner. A life insurance policy guarantees the insurer pays a sum of money to one or more named beneficiaries when the insured person dies in exchange for premiums paid by the policyholder during their lifetime.





Key Takeaways

Life insurance is a legally binding contract that pays a death benefit to the policy owner when the insured person dies.For a life insurance policy to remain in force, the policyholder must pay a single premium upfront or pay regular premiums over time.When the insured person dies, the policy’s named beneficiaries will receive the policy’s face value, or death benefit.Term life insurance policies expire after a certain number of years. Permanent life insurance policies remain active until the insured dies, stops paying premiums, or surrenders the policy.A life insurance policy is only as good as the financial strength of the company that issues it. State guaranty funds may pay claims if the issuer can’t.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Types of Life Insurance  

Many different types of life insurance are available to meet all sorts of needs and preferences. Depending on the short- or long-term needs of the person to be insured, the major choice of whether to select temporary or permanent life insurance is important to consider.


  Term life insurance  

Term life insurance is designed to last a certain number of years, then end. You choose the term when you take out the policy. Common terms are 10, 20, or 30 years. The best term life insurance policies balance affordability with long-term financial strength.



Decreasing term life insurance is renewable term life insurance with coverage decreasing over the life of the policy at a predetermined rate.
Convertible term life insurance allows policyholders to convert a term policy to permanent insurance.
Renewable term life insurance provides a quote for the year the policy is purchased. Premiums increase annually and are usually the least expensive term insurance in the beginning.



Many term life insurance policies allow you to renew the contract on an annual basis once the term is up. This is one way to extend your life insurance coverage but since the renewal rate is based on your current age, premiums can rise precipitously each year. A better solution for permanent coverage is to convert your term life insurance policy into a permanent policy. This is not an option on all term life policies; look for a convertible term policy if this is important to you.


  Permanent Life Insurance  

Permanent life insurance stays in force for the insured’s entire life unless the policyholder stops paying the premiums or surrenders the policy. It’s more expensive than term.



Whole life insurance is a type of permanent life insurance. It accumulates a cash value in order to last the lifetime of the insured person. Cash-value life insurance also allows the policyholder to use the cash value for many purposes, such as a source of loans or cash or to pay policy premiums.
Universal life (UL) insurance is a type of permanent life insurance with a cash value component that earns interest. Universal life features flexible premiums. Unlike term and whole life, the premiums can be adjusted over time and designed with a level death benefit or an increasing death benefit.
Indexed universal life (IUL) is a type of universal life insurance that lets the policyholder earn a fixed or equity-indexed rate of return on the cash value component.
Variable universal life (VUL) insurance allows the policyholder to invest the policy’s cash value in an available separate account. It also has flexible premiums and can be designed with a level death benefit or an increasing death benefit.


   Top-Rated Companies to Compare  

When shopping for insurance, you might want to start with our list of the best life insurance companies, some of which are listed below.












Company
AM Best Rating
Coverage Capacity
Maximum Issue Age
Policies Offered




Nationwide Best Overall Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A+ 
Over $5 million
85
Term, whole, UL, IUL, VUL, final expense


Protective Best for Term Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A+
Over $5 million
85
Term, whole, UL, IUL, VUL


MassMutual Best Convertible Term Life Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A++ 
Over $5 million
90
Term, whole, UL, VUL


Mutual of Omaha Best Return-of-Premium Term Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A+ 
Over $5 million
85
Term, UL, IUL, final expense


Guardian Great Traditional Insurer Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A++ 
Over $5 million
90
Term, whole, UL, VUL


USAA Best for Military Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A++
Over $5 million
85
Term, whole, UL


New York Life Best Whole Life Compare Quotes on BestMoney
A++
Over $5 million
90
Term, whole, UL, VUL





   Term vs. Permanent Life Insurance  

Term life insurance differs from permanent life insurance in several ways but tends to best meet the needs of most people looking for affordable life insurance coverage. Term life insurance only lasts for a set period of time and pays a death benefit should the policyholder die before the term has expired. Permanent life insurance stays in effect as long as the policyholder pays the premium. Another critical difference involves premiums—term life is generally much less expensive than permanent life because it does not involve building a cash value.



Before you apply for life insurance, you should analyze your financial situation and determine how much money would be required to maintain your beneficiaries’ standard of living or meet the need for which you’re purchasing a policy. Also, consider how long you'll need coverage for.



For example, if you are the primary caretaker and have children 2 and 4 years old, you would want enough insurance to cover your custodial responsibilities until your children are grown up and able to support themselves.



You might research the cost of hiring a nanny and a housekeeper or using commercial child care and cleaning services, then perhaps add money for education. Include any outstanding mortgage and retirement needs for your spouse in your life insurance calculation. Especially if the spouse earns significantly less or is a stay-at-home parent. Add up what these costs would be over the next 16 or so years, add more for inflation, and that’s the death benefit you might want to buy—if you can afford it.






Burial or final expense insurance is a type of permanent life insurance that has a small death benefit. Despite the names, beneficiaries can use the death benefit as they wish.


   What Affects Your Life Insurance Premiums and Costs?  

Many factors can affect the cost of life insurance premiums. Certain things may be beyond your control, but other criteria can be managed to potentially bring down the cost before (and even after) applying. Your health and age are the most important factors that determine cost, so buying life insurance as soon as you need it is often the best course of action.



After being approved for an insurance policy, if your health has improved and you’ve made positive lifestyle changes, you can request to be considered for a change in risk class. Even if it is found that you’re in poorer health than at the initial underwriting, your premiums will not go up. If you’re found to be in better health, then you your premiums may decrease. You may also be able to buy additional coverage at a lower rate than you initially did.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Life Insurance Buying Guide  
  Step 1: Determine How Much You Need  

Think about what expenses would need to be covered in the event of your death. Things like mortgage, college tuition, and other debts, not to mention funeral expenses. Plus, income replacement is a major factor if your spouse or loved ones need cash flow and are not able to provide it on their own.



There are helpful tools online to calculate the lump sum that can satisfy any potential expenses that would need to be covered.


  Step 2: Prepare Your Application  

Life insurance applications generally require personal and family medical history and beneficiary information. You may need to take a medical exam and will need to disclose any preexisting medical conditions, history of moving violations, DUIs, and any dangerous hobbies, such as auto racing or skydiving. The following are crucial elements of most life insurance applications:



Age: This is the most important factor because life expectancy is the biggest determinant of risk for the insurance company.Gender: Because women statistically live longer, they generally pay lower rates than males of the same age.Smoking: A person who smokes is at risk for many health issues that could shorten life and increase risk-based premiums.Health: Medical exams for most policies include screening for health conditions like heart disease, diabetes, and cancer and related medical metrics that can indicate risk.Lifestyle: Dangerous lifestyles can make premiums much more expensive.Family medical history: If you have evidence of major disease in your immediate family, your risk of developing certain conditions is much higher.Driving record: A history of moving violations or drunk driving can dramatically increase the cost of insurance premiums.



Standard forms of identification will also be needed before a policy can be written, such as your Social Security card, driver's license, or U.S. passport.


  Step 3: Compare Policy Quotes  

When you've assembled all of your necessary information, you can gather multiple life insurance quotes from different providers based on your research. Prices can differ markedly from company to company, so it's important to take the effort to find the best combination of policy, company rating, and premium cost. Because life insurance is something you will likely pay monthly for decades, it can save an enormous amount of money to find the best policy to fit your needs.






Our lineup of the best life insurance companies can give you a jump start on your research. It lists the companies we've found to be the best for different types of needs, based on our research of nearly 100 carriers.


   Benefits of Life Insurance  

There are many benefits to having life insurance. Below are some of the most important features and protections offered by life insurance policies.



Most people use life insurance to provide money to beneficiaries who would suffer a financial hardship upon the insured’s death. However, for wealthy individuals, the tax advantages of life insurance, including the tax-deferred growth of cash value, tax-free dividends, and tax-free death benefits, can provide additional strategic opportunities.


  Avoiding Taxes  

The death benefit of a life insurance policy is usually tax-free. Wealthy individuals sometimes buy permanent life insurance within a trust to pay estate taxes. This strategy helps to preserve the value of the estate for their heirs.



Tax avoidance is a law-abiding strategy for minimizing one’s tax liability and should not be confused with tax evasion, which is illegal.


   Who Needs Life Insurance?  

Life insurance provides financial support to surviving dependents or other beneficiaries after the death of an insured policyholder. Here are some examples of people who may need life insurance:



Parents with minor children. If a parent dies, the loss of their income or caregiving skills could create a financial hardship. Life insurance can make sure the kids will have the financial resources they need until they can support themselves.
Parents with special-needs adult children. For children who require lifelong care and will never be self-sufficient, life insurance can make sure their needs will be met after their parents pass away. The death benefit can be used to fund a special needs trust that a fiduciary will manage for the adult child’s benefit.
Adults who own property together. Married or not, if the death of one adult would mean that the other could no longer afford loan payments, upkeep, and taxes on the property, life insurance may be a good idea. One example would be an engaged couple who take out a joint mortgage to buy their first house.
Seniors who want to leave money to adult children who provide their care. Many adult children sacrifice time at work to care for an elderly parent who needs help. This help may also include direct financial support. Life insurance can help reimburse the adult child’s costs when the parent passes away.
Young adults whose parents incurred private student loan debt or cosigned a loan for them. Young adults without dependents rarely need life insurance, but if a parent will be on the hook for a child’s debt after their death, the child may want to carry enough life insurance to pay off that debt.
Children or young adults who want to lock in low rates. The younger and healthier you are, the lower your insurance premiums. A 20-something adult might buy a policy even without having dependents if there is an expectation to have them in the future.
Stay-at-home spouses. Stay-at-home spouses should have life insurance as they have significant economic value based on the work they do in the home. According to Salary.com, the economic value of a stay-at-home parent would have been equivalent to an annual salary of $162,581 in 2018.
Wealthy families who expect to owe estate taxes. Life insurance can provide funds to cover the taxes and keep the full value of the estate intact.
Families who can’t afford burial and funeral expenses. A small life insurance policy can provide funds to honor a loved one’s passing.
Businesses with key employees. If the death of a key employee, such as a CEO, would create a severe financial hardship for a firm, that firm may have an insurable interest that will allow it to purchase a life insurance policy on that employee.
Married pensioners. Instead of choosing between a pension payout that offers a spousal benefit and one that doesn’t, pensioners can choose to accept their full pension and use some of the money to buy life insurance to benefit their spouse. This strategy is called pension maximization.
Those with preexisting conditions. Such as cancer, diabetes, or smoking. Note, however, that some insurers may deny coverage for such individuals, or else charge very high rates.






Each policy is unique to the insured and insurer. It’s important to review your policy document to understand what risks your policy covers, how much it will pay your beneficiaries, and under what circumstances.


   Considerations Before Buying Life Insurance  
  Research Policy Options and Company Reviews  

Because life insurance policies are a major expense and commitment, it's critical to do proper due diligence to make sure the company you choose has a solid track record and financial strength, given that your heirs may not receive any death benefit for many decades into the future. Investopedia has evaluated scores of companies that offer all different types of insurance and rated the best in numerous categories.


  Consider How Much Death Benefit You Need  

Life insurance can be a prudent financial tool to hedge your bets and provide protection for your loved ones in case of death should you die while the policy is in force. However, there are situations in which it makes less sense—such as buying too much or insuring those whose income doesn't need to be replaced. So it's important to consider the following.



What expenses couldn't be met if you died? If your spouse has a high income and you don't have any children, maybe it's not warranted. It is still essential to consider the impact of your potential death on a spouse and consider how much financial support they would need to grieve without worrying about returning to work before they’re ready. However, if both spouses' income is necessary to maintain a desired lifestyle or meet financial commitments, then both spouses may need separate life insurance coverage.


  Know Why You're Buying Life Insurance  

If you're buying a policy on another family member's life, it's important to ask—what are you trying to insure? Children and seniors really don't have any meaningful income to replace, but burial expenses may need to be covered in the event of their death. Beyond burial expenses, a parent may also want to protect their child’s future insurability by purchasing a moderate-sized policy when they are young. Doing so allows that parent to ensure that their child can financially protect their future family. Parents are only allowed to purchase life insurance for their children up to 25% of the in-force policy on their own lives.



Could investing the money that would be paid in premiums for permanent insurance throughout a policy earn a better return over time? As a hedge against uncertainty, consistent saving and investing—for example, self-insuring—might make more sense in some cases if a significant income doesn't need to be replaced or if policy investment returns on cash value are overly conservative.


   How Life Insurance Works  

A life insurance policy has two main components—a death benefit and a premium. Term life insurance has these two components, but permanent or whole life insurance policies also have a cash value component.



Death benefit. The death benefit or face value is the amount of money the insurance company guarantees to the beneficiaries identified in the policy when the insured dies. The insured might be a parent, and the beneficiaries might be their children, for example. The insured will choose the desired death benefit amount based on the beneficiaries’ estimated future needs. The insurance company will determine whether there is an insurable interest and if the proposed insured qualifies for the coverage based on the company’s underwriting requirements related to age, health, and any hazardous activities in which the proposed insured participates.
Premium. Premiums are the money the policyholder pays for insurance. The insurer must pay the death benefit when the insured dies if the policyholder pays the premiums as required, and premiums are determined in part by how likely it is that the insurer will have to pay the policy’s death benefit based on the insured’s life expectancy. Factors that influence life expectancy include the insured’s age, gender, medical history, occupational hazards, and high-risk hobbies. Part of the premium also goes toward the insurance company’s operating expenses. Premiums are higher on policies with larger death benefits, individuals who are at higher risk, and permanent policies that accumulate cash value.
Cash Value. The cash value of permanent life insurance serves two purposes. It is a savings account that the policyholder can use during the life of the insured; the cash accumulates on a tax-deferred basis. Some policies may have restrictions on withdrawals depending on how the money is to be used. For example, the policyholder might take out a loan against the policy’s cash value and have to pay interest on the loan principal. The policyholder can also use the cash value to pay premiums or purchase additional insurance. The cash value is a living benefit that remains with the insurance company when the insured dies. Any outstanding loans against the cash value will reduce the policy’s death benefit.





Good to Know

The policy owner and the insured are usually the same person, but sometimes they may be different. For example, a business might buy key person insurance on a crucial employee such as a CEO, or an insured might sell their own policy to a third party for cash in a life settlement.


   Life Insurance Riders and Policy Changes  

Many insurance companies offer policyholders the option to customize their policies to accommodate their needs. Riders are the most common way policyholders may modify or change their plans. There are many riders, but availability depends on the provider. The policyholder will typically pay an additional premium for each rider or a fee to exercise the rider, though some policies include certain riders in their base premium.



The accidental death benefit rider provides additional life insurance coverage in the event the insured’s death is accidental.
The waiver of premium rider relieves the policyholder of making premium payments if the insured becomes disabled and unable to work.
The disability income rider pays a monthly income in the event the policyholder becomes unable to work for several months or longer due to a serious illness or injury.
Upon diagnosis of terminal illness, the accelerated death benefit rider allows the insured to collect a portion or all of the death benefit.
The long-term care rider is a type of accelerated death benefit that can be used to pay for nursing-home, assisted-living, or in-home care when the insured requires help with activities of daily living, such as bathing, eating, and using the toilet.
A guaranteed insurability rider lets the policyholder buy additional insurance at a later date without a medical review.



Borrowing Money. Most permanent life insurance accumulates cash value that the policyholder can borrow against. Technically, you are borrowing money from the insurance company and using your cash value as collateral. Unlike with other types of loans, the policyholder’s credit score is not a factor. Repayment terms can be flexible, and the loan interest goes back into the policyholder’s cash value account. Policy loans can reduce the policy’s death benefit, however.



Funding Retirement. Policies with a cash value or investment component can provide a source of retirement income. This opportunity can come with high fees and a lower death benefit, so it may only be a good option for individuals who have maxed out other tax-advantaged savings and investment accounts. The pension maximization strategy described earlier is another way life insurance can fund retirement.






It’s prudent to reevaluate your life insurance needs annually or after significant life events, such as divorce, marriage, the birth or adoption of a child, or major purchases, such as a house. You may need to update the policy’s beneficiaries, increase your coverage, or even reduce your coverage.


   Qualifying for Life Insurance  

Insurers evaluate each life insurance applicant on a case-by-case basis, and with hundreds of insurers to choose from, almost anyone can find an affordable policy that at least partially meets their needs. In 2018 there were 841 life insurance and annuity companies in the United States, according to the Insurance Information Institute.



On top of that, many life insurance companies sell multiple types and sizes of policies, and some specialize in meeting specific needs, such as policies for people with chronic health conditions. There are also brokers who specialize in life insurance and know what different companies offer. Applicants can work with a broker free of charge to find the insurance they need. This means that almost anyone can get some type of life insurance policy if they look hard enough and are willing to pay a high enough price or accept a perhaps less-than-ideal death benefit.



Insurance is not just for the healthy and wealthy, and because the insurance industry is much broader than many consumers realize, getting life insurance may be possible and affordable even if previous applications have been denied or quotes have been unaffordable.



In general, the younger and healthier you are, the easier it will be to qualify for life insurance, and the older and less healthy you are, the harder it will be. Certain lifestyle choices, such as using tobacco or engaging in risky hobbies such as skydiving, also make it harder to qualify or lead to higher rates.




Who Needs Life Insurance?
You need life insurance if you need to provide security for a spouse, children, or other family members in the event of your death. Life insurance death benefits, depending on the policy amount, can help beneficiaries pay off a mortgage, cover college tuition, or help fund retirement. Permanent life insurance also features a cash value component that builds over time.




What Affects Your Life Insurance Premiums?
Age (life insurance is less expensive)Gender (female tends to be less expensive)Smoking (smoking increases premiums)Health (poor health can raise premiums)Lifestyle (risky activities can increase premiums)Family medical history (chronic illness in relatives can raise premiums)Driving record (good drivers save on premiums)




What Are the Benefits of Life Insurance?
Payouts are tax-free. Life insurance death benefits are paid as a lump sum and are not subject to federal income tax because they are not considered income for beneficiaries.Dependents don't have to worry about living expenses. Most policy calculators recommend a multiple of your gross income equal to seven to 10 years that can cover major expenses like mortgages and college tuition without the surviving spouse or children having to take out loans.Final expenses can be covered. Funeral expenses can be significant and can be avoided with a burial policy or with standard term or permanent life policies.Policies can supplement retirement savings. Permanent life policies such as whole, universal, and variable life insurance can offer cash value in addition to death benefits, which can augment other savings in retirement.




How Do You Qualify for Life Insurance?
To qualify for life insurance, you need to submit an application. But life insurance is available to almost anyone. However, the cost or premium level can vary greatly based on your age, health, and lifestyle. Some types of life insurance don't require medical information but generally have much higher premiums and involve an initial waiting period before the death benefit is available.




How Does Life Insurance Work?
Life insurance works by providing a death benefit in exchange for paying premiums. One popular type of life insurance—term life insurance—only lasts for a set amount of time, such as 10 or 20 years. Permanent life insurance also features a death benefit but lasts for the life of the policyholder as long as premiums are paid.








More Life Insurance Company Reviews


Company




AAA Life Insurance


AARP Life Insurance


AFLAC Life Insurance


AIG Life Insurance


Allstate Life Insurance


American Fidelity Life


American Income Life


Ameritas Life Insurance


Assurity Life Insurance


Bankers Life Insurance


Banner Life Insurance


Bestow Life Insurance


Brighthouse Life Insurance


Colonial Penn Life Insurance


Continental Life Insurance


CUNA Mutual Life


Ethos Life Insurance


Family First Life Insurance


Fidelity Life Insurance


Foresters Life Insurance


Freedom Life Insurance


GEICO Life Insurance


Genworth Life Insurance


Gerber Life Insurance


Globe Life


Guardian Life Insurance


Haven Life Insurance


Jackson National Life


John Hancock Life


Kemper Life Insurance


Ladder Life Insurance


Liberty Mutual Life


Lincoln Heritage Life


Lumico Life Insurance


Manhattan Life Insurance


Mass Mutual Life Insurance


Max Life Insurance


MetLife Life Insurance


Midland National Life


Mutual of Omaha Life


National Life Group


Nationwide Life Insurance


Navy Federal Life Insurance


NEA Life Insurance Company


New York Life


North American Life


Northwestern Mutual Life


Oxford Life Insurance Company


Pacific Life Insurance


Primerica Life Insurance


Protective Life Insurance


Prudential Life Insurance


Securian Life Insurance


SelectQuote Life Insurance


State Farm Life Insurance


Texas Life Insurance


Transamerica Life Insurance


TruStage Life Insurance


Unum Life Insurance


USAA Life Insurance


VA Life Insurance


Zander Life Insurance



Click on Each to See Full Review





Disclosure

We publish unbiased product reviews; our opinions are our own and are not influenced by payments we receive from our advertising partners. Learn more about how we review products and read our advertiser disclosure for how we make money. And see our complete list of the best companies for different types of policies.
What Is a Life Settlement?  

A life settlement refers to the sale of an existing insurance policy to a third party for a one-time cash payment. Payment is more than the surrender value but less than the actual death benefit. After the sale, the purchaser becomes the policy's beneficiary and assumes payment of its premiums. By doing so, they receive the death benefit when the insured dies.



A life settlement agreement is closely related to a viatical agreement.





Key Takeaways

A life settlement refers to the sale of an existing insurance policy to a third party for a one-time cash payment.The policy's purchaser becomes its beneficiary and assumes payment of its premiums, and receives the death benefit when the insured dies.Some of the reasons why people choose life settlements include retirement, unaffordable premiums, and emergencies.Viaticals are similar to life settlement agreements.Because life settlements involve a transfer by the policy owner, they do not amount to stranger-owned life insurance (STOLI).


   How Life Settlements Work  

When an insured party can no longer afford their insurance policy, they can sell it for a certain amount of cash to an investor—usually an institutional investor. The cash payment is primarily tax-free for most policy owners. The insured person essentially transfers ownership of the policy to the investor. As we noted above, the insured party receives a cash payment in exchange for the policy—more than the surrender value, but less than the policy's prescribed payout at death.



By selling it, the insured person transfers every aspect of the life insurance policy to the new owner. This means the investor who takes over the policy inherits and becomes responsible for everything related to the policy including premium payments along with the death benefit. So, once the insured party dies, the new owner—who becomes the beneficiary after the transfer—receives the payout.






Life settlements are legal for the most part in the U.S. Because life settlements involve a transfer by the policy owner, they do not amount to stranger-owned life insurance (STOLI), which is illegal.


   Why Choose a Life Settlement  

There are many reasons why people choose to sell their life insurance policies and are usually only done when the insured person doesn't have a known life-threatening illness. The majority of people who sell their policies for a life settlement tend to be older people—those who need money for retirement but haven't been able to save up enough. That's why life settlements are often called senior settlements. By receiving a cash payout, the insured party can supplement their retirement income with a largely tax-free payout.



Other reasons for choosing a life settlement include:



The inability to afford premiums. Instead of letting the policy lapse and be canceled, an insured person can sell the policy using a life settlement. Failure to pay the premiums may net the insured a smaller cash surrender value—or none at all, depending on the terms. A life settlement on a current policy, though, usually results in a higher cash payment from the investor.
The policy is no longer needed. There may come a time when the reasons for having the policy don't exist anymore. The insured party may no longer need the policy for their dependents.
Cases of emergencies. In cases where an unexpected event arises, such as the death or illness of a family member, the owner may need to sell the policy for cash to cover these expenses.
Cases involving key individual insurance policies held by companies on executives. This is typical for people who no longer work for the company. By taking a life settlement, the company can cash out on a policy that was previously illiquid.






Life settlements generally net the seller more than the policy's surrender value, but less than its death benefit.


   Life Settlements vs. Viatical Settlements  

Policy sales became popular during the 1980s when people living with AIDS had life insurance they didn't need. This led to another part of the industry—the viatical settlement industry, where people who have terminal illnesses sell their policies for cash. This part of the industry lost its luster after people with AIDS began living longer.



When someone becomes terminally ill and has a very short life span, they may sell their life insurance to someone else. In exchange for a large lump sum of money, the buyer takes on the premium payments, becoming the policy's new owner. After the insured party dies, the new owner receives the death benefit.



Viatical settlements are generally riskier because the investor basically speculates on the death of the insured. Even though the original policy owner may be ill, there's no way of knowing when they will actually die. If the insured person lives longer, the policy becomes cheaper, but the actual return becomes lower after factoring in premium payments over time.


   Special Considerations  

Life settlements effectively create a secondary market for life insurance policies. This secondary market has been years in the making. There have been a number of judicial rulings that have legitimized the market—one of the most notable being the 1911 U.S. Supreme Court case of Grigsby v. Russell.



John Burchard wasn't able to keep up the premium payments on his life insurance policy and sold it to his doctor, A. H. Grigsby. When Burchard died, Grigsby tried to collect the death benefit. The executor of Burchard's estate sued Grigsby to get the money and won. But the case ended up in the Supreme Court.



In his ruling, Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes likened life insurance to regular property. He believed the policy could be transferred by the owner at will and had the same legal standing as other types of property like stocks and bonds. In addition, he said there are rights that come with life insurance as a piece of property:



The owner can change the beneficiary unless the insurer has restrictions in place.
The policy may be used as collateral for a loan.
Owners can borrow against the insurance policy.
Policies can be sold to another person or entity.




Who Does a Life Settlement Broker Represent?
A life settlement broker represents the policy owner and may be bound by a fiduciary duty to them. The broker's job is to find the highest bidder for the policy.




Which Life Insurance Settlement Option Guarantees Payments?
A life settlement can be structured as an annuity that will feature guaranteed payments until the death of the policy's beneficiaries.




What Is a Single Life Settlement Option?
In a single life settlement, any payments agreed upon will cease upon the death of the annuitant or beneficiary. In contrast, a joint life settlement will continue paying out until the annuitant's spouse also passes away (assuming they survive the annuitant).
What Is Lifestyle Creep?  

Lifestyle creep occurs when an individual's standard of living improves as their discretionary income rises and former luxuries become new necessities. The rise in discretionary income can happen either through an increase in income or decrease in costs.



A hallmark of lifestyle creep is a change in thinking and behavior that sees spending on nonessential items as a right rather than a choice. This can be seen in the spending decision attitude of "you deserve it," rather than thinking of the opportunities that saving money would provide. A way to fight lifestyle creep is by budgeting and discerning wants from needs when making purchases.





Key Takeaways

Lifestyle creep refers to the phenomenon where discretionary consumption increases on non-essential items as the standard of living improves.With lifestyle creep, luxury goods and discretionary spending become perceived as a right to have and not a choice—as a necessity versus a want.The downside of this creep is that when income decreases, for instance with unemployment or in retirement, people will run out of savings as they continue to live above their means.


   Lifestyle Creep Explained  

Lifestyle has the potential to derail retirement plans and debt reduction as frugality is replaced by spendthriftness. Lifestyle creep can start small—ordering a more expensive bottle of wine at dinner, or buying a bag or electronic item you do not really need—but can quickly extend to more extravagant habits. Easily accessible credit and the use of credit cards, which enable bigger purchases, may contribute to lifestyle creep. Budgeting and willpower can be leveraged to avoid lifestyle creep.



Some examples of lifestyle creep include:



Spending several dollars per day on coffeeFlying premium economy rather than coachEating out frequently and more expensivelyExpensive clothing (and more of it when less expensive clothing will suffice)Paying for housekeepingBuying or renting more house than you need (or a second home)A third car, a boat, or replacing a car sooner than you need to


   Lifestyle Creep and Near-Retirees  

Lifestyle creep can be particularly problematic for individuals approaching retirement. Such individuals, at five to 10 years before retirement, are typically in their peak earning years and have already paid off their longstanding recurring expenses, such as a mortgage or child-related costs. Feeling flush with their newfound surplus of discretionary income, they may opt for more expensive cars, pricier vacations, a second home, or a newfound affinity for luxury goods.



Since the goal in retirement is to maintain the lifestyle one has become accustomed to in the years preceding retirement, these retirees require more funds to support their more lavish lifestyles. Unfortunately, they lack the resources to do this because they have spent their surplus cash flow rather than saved it to bolster a more comfortable retirement.


   Lifestyle Creep and Younger Savers  

Lifestyle creep can also be felt by younger consumers and retirement savers, such as when they land their first well-paying job. Spending habits can quickly change to include items that were previously considered luxuries. Such behavior can make it harder to save for buying a first home, retirement, or quickly pay down educational debt. Individuals who fear falling into such a spending trap should consider writing down their life and money goals and using them as a guide to spending decisions.
What Is Lifetime Cost?  

Lifetime cost is an estimate of how much an item, such as a car, a home, or a piece of industrial machinery, will cost to own over the expected useful life of that item. It also includes cost of purchasing the item in the first place.





Key Takeaways

The lifetime cost of an item represents its initial purchase price plus the cost of operating and maintaining it over its expected lifetime.Lifetime cost is also referred to as whole-life cost, life cycle cost, or total cost of ownership.Lifetime costs can greatly exceed an item's purchase price, making them important to consider in the purchasing decision.Opportunity cost refers to what a consumer or business might have gained by using the money for a different purpose, such as investing it.


   Understanding and Calculating Lifetime Cost  

Businesses will frequently calculate lifetime cost before making large expenditures, upgrades, or renovations. For example, if they are buying a new piece of machinery, they will not only consider what it costs to buy initially but also what it is likely to cost to operate and maintain over its expected lifetime. Lifetime cost may also be referred to as whole-life cost, life cycle cost, or total cost of ownership.



Individual consumers can also find it useful to calculate lifetime cost before buying a home, boat, automobile, or other expensive item. Besides the initial purchase price, lifetime costs can include:



The cost of maintaining the item in a good or functioning conditioningCost of any insurance to protect the itemAny renovations or upgrades likely to be required for the item



As a simple example, if a person bought a fur coat, the lifetime cost would include the purchase price as well as the expense of cleaning, storing, insuring, and otherwise maintaining the coat.



Often, the lifetime cost of an item may be far greater than the initial purchase price. Many boat owners, for example, will recognize the truth of the old saying that the definition of a boat is a hole in the water into which you throw money.



In addition to lifetime cost, it can also be useful to look at the opportunity cost of a particular expenditure. That refers to the potential benefits of spending the same amount of money in a different manner, such as investing it.


   How Debt Adds to Lifetime Cost  

Lifetime cost can also include debt repayments. For example, the lifetime cost of an item financed through a credit card or line of credit (LOC) can be much greater than the purchase would have cost had it been paid for with cash. Unless the debt is paid off right away, the interest and fees on the credit card or credit line will add to the lifetime cost of the item.



The most dramatic example for most consumers would be the purchase of a home. For example, consider a $300,000 home purchased with a 20% down payment and a 30-year mortgage with an annual percentage rate of 7%.



Assuming the homeowner keeps that home and mortgage for the next 30 years, by the time it is fully paid off, they will have paid about $335,445 in interest on the $240,000 they borrowed. Together with the $60,000 they put down initially, the repayment of the loan's $240,000 principal, and the $335,445 in interest, the $300,000 home will have cost them $635,445—or more than twice the original purchase price.



And that, of course, doesn't include all the other lifetime costs associated with a home, such as property taxes, homeowners insurance, and routine maintenance. Nor does it include the opportunity cost of using that money differently.





$120 billion

That's the total amount that Americans pay in credit card interest and fees each year, as estimated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Using credit cards to purchase items can add to their lifetime cost unless the consumer pays their monthly balance in full.


   Real-World Example of Lifetime Cost  

Car buyers will often compare makes and models, prices, desired features, and different dealers' financing offers before making their buying decision. However, the cost of the vehicle does not end at the car lot.



Consider the costs involved with weekly gas fill-ups, periodic oil changes, auto insurance, licensing and vehicle inspection fees. Still other expenses may include a roadside assistance plan, car washes, and parking or garage rent.



So, for budgeting purposes, it makes sense to look not just at the vehicle's initial price but at what it will cost on an ongoing basis. Not only are some cars cheaper than others but some may also be less expensive to maintain. It can also be the case that a car that is more expensive initially will be less costly on an annual basis, making it a better buy in the long run. The U.S. Department of Energy has an online Vehicle Cost Calculator that allows users to compare the operating costs of up to eight different makes and models based on how much they drive.



According to the American Automobile Association, the average new car costs $9,282 to own and operate. That includes loan finance charges, gasoline, maintenance, insurance, license and registration fees, and depreciation.




What Is Depreciation?
Depreciation is an accounting method that is used to allocate the cost of a particular item over its useful lifetime. For example, a piece of office equipment that is expected to last for five years would lose 20% of its value every year until it has been fully depreciated. Depreciation is often taken into account in estimating the lifetime cost of an item.




How Fast Do Cars Depreciate?
How fast a car depreciates can vary greatly from model to model. As a general rule, the lender Capital One says that a new car may lose 20% of its value in the first year and another 10% to 15% each year over the next five years.




What Is Residual Value?
Residual value refers to what an asset is worth after it has been fully depreciated for accounting purposes. The item may still be saleable to another buyer, in which case the seller will recoup some of the item's expected lifetime cost. A car, for example, may still have some resale or trade-in value even if you've driven it for quite a few years.


   The Bottom Line  

Lifetime cost is a useful way to estimate how much a particular item will cost to own and can be especially important in high-ticket purchasing decisions.
What Is the Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC)?  

The Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC) is a provision of the U.S. federal income tax code that lets parents and students lower their tax liability by up to $2,000 to help offset higher education expenses. Unfortunately, the LLC is not refundable, which means you can use the LLC to pay the taxes you owe, but you don't get a refund back of any of the credit, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



This credit may be claimed year after year, without a limit. However, it cannot be combined with the American Opportunity Tax Credit in the same tax year.





Key Takeaways

The Lifetime Learning Credit is for qualified tuition and education-related expenses paid for by eligible students enrolled in an eligible educational institution.This credit can help pay for undergraduate, graduate, and professional degree courses, including courses to acquire or improve job skills.There is no limit on the number of years you can claim the credit. It is worth up to $2,000 per tax return.The American Opportunity Credit can only be used to offset the cost of undergraduate schools, unlike the Lifetime Learning Credit.Taxpayers with a MAGI of over $90,000, or $180,000 for joint filers, cannot claim the credit.


   How the Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC) Works  

The LLC may be claimed when a student is enrolled in undergraduate, graduate, or professional degree courses. The credit may also be used for courses in specific career-related skills.



To be eligible for the credit, a student must be enrolled at an educational institution considered eligible by the Internal Revenue Service, and they must be taking higher education courses towards a degree or a recognized educational credential that provides or improves job skills.



Finally, the student must be enrolled at a qualifying institution for at least one academic period that began within the tax year for which they’re claiming the credit. The IRS defines “academic period” as a semester, trimester, quarter, summer session, or other period determined by the school.






According to the IRS: "An eligible educational institution is a school offering higher education beyond high school. It is any college, university, vocational school, or other post-secondary educational institution eligible to participate in a Federal student aid program run by the U.S. Department of Education."


   Income Limitations for the LLC  

In order to claim the full credit, a taxpayer’s modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) for the tax year 2022 must be $80,000 or less, if they file as an individual. For taxpayers filing jointly, income must be $160,000 or less. Individual taxpayers with MAGI of at least $90,000 or couples filing a joint return with MAGI of at least $180,000 do not quality for the credit.



The credit is phased out for those taxpayers with modified adjusted gross income in excess of those amounts, and those who are phased out cannot claim the $2,000 credit at all. The modified adjusted gross income amount used by joint filers to determine the reduction in the LLC, according to the IRS, was not adjusted for inflation for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.


   How to Claim the LLC  

To be eligible to claim the AOTC or LLC, the law requires a taxpayer or their dependent to get Form 1098-T, Tuition Statement, from an eligible educational institution. This statement helps you determine what your credit will be. The form will have an amount in Box 1 to show the amounts received during the year. But this amount may not be the amount you can claim. There are several qualified education expenses beyond tuition that can affect what amount to claim.



Check the Form 1098-T to make sure it is correct. If it isn't correct or you do not receive the form, contact your school. To claim the LLC, you must complete Form 8863. Attach the completed form to your Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR.






You cannot claim the American Opportunity Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit at the same time. Figure out what you are eligible for, and what is best for your situation.


   Other Tax Credits Related to Education Expenses  

The U.S. government subsidizes individuals' higher education expenses through tax credits, tax deductions, and tax-advantaged savings plans. Each of these programs lowers income tax liability for students or their parents. The subsidies include the Lifetime Learning Credit, the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC), the tuition and fees deduction, and 529 savings plans.



The AOTC is a credit specifically for education expenses during the first four years of higher education. The AOTC offers a maximum annual credit of $2,500 per eligible student. If the credit brings the amount of tax you owe to zero, you can have 40% of any remaining amount of the credit (up to $1,000) refunded to you.



The tuition and fees deduction allows taxpayers to deduct up to $4,000 from their taxable income in eligible higher education expenses when filing their taxes. A 529 savings plan is designed to help people to save money for future tuition, usually for their children or grandchildren, through a tax-advantaged savings plan.






The IRS also publishes an interactive mobile application—Am I Eligible to Claim an Education Credit?—that students can use to find out if they are eligible to claim an education credit.




How Much Is the Lifetime Learning Credit?
The LLC is worth up to $2,000 or 20% of the first $10,000 of qualified education expenses, each tax year, depending on your MAGI.




How Many Times Can You Claim the Lifetime Learning Credit?
There is no limit to the number of times you can claim the LCC during your lifetime. If you are eligible, you can claim it every tax year.




Can Parents Claim the Lifetime Learning Credit?
Yes. Parents can claim the Lifetime Learning Credit on the behalf of a dependent child. However, you can only claim it once, so if you have four children, you still only get the maximum amount of the credit, which is $2,000 per tax return. You don't get the credit for each child.




What’s the Difference Between the American Opportunity Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit?
The American Opportunity Credit, formerly the Hope credit, can be used for the first four years of undergraduate studies only. The Lifetime Learning Credit can be used for undergraduate and graduate studies, plus some professional programs and trade schools may be eligible.The American Opportunity Credit is worth up to $2,500, and if you have more than one student listed as a dependent, you may claim multiple credits. The Lifetime Learning Credit can only be used once for up to $2,000 on an annual tax return.




When Does the Lifetime Learning Credit Expire?
The LLC doesn't expire. You can use it annually, for as many years as you qualify for the credit.


   The Bottom Line  

The U.S. government's tax credits, tax deductions, and tax-advantaged savings plans are all useful tools to help afford the rising costs of higher education. If you are eligible for these subsidies, it is worthwhile to fill out the necessary paperwork at tax time. Those who qualify for the lifetime learning credit will find it a good way to help afford both undergraduate and graduate school, plus professional degree courses and programs that assist with acquiring and improving job skills.
What Is a LIFO Liquidation?  

A LIFO liquidation is when a company sells the most recently acquired inventory first. It occurs when a company that uses the last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory costing method liquidates its older LIFO inventory. A LIFO liquidation occurs when current sales exceed purchases, resulting in the liquidation of any inventory not sold in a previous period. 





Key Takeaways

A LIFO liquidation is when a company sells its newest inventory first.It is an accounting method that uses the last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory costing method.LIFO matches the most recent costs against current revenues. Some companies use the LIFO method during periods of inflation when the cost to purchase inventory increases over time.


   How a LIFO Liquidation Works  

The LIFO method is a financial practice in which a company sells the most recent inventory purchased first. LIFO matches the most recent costs against current revenues. Some companies use the LIFO method during periods of inflation when the cost to purchase inventory increases over time. The LIFO method provides tax benefits as the higher costs associated with new inventories seemingly offset profits, resulting in a lower tax burden.


   LIFO Liquidation Example  

ABC Company uses the LIFO method of inventory accounting for its domestic stores. It purchased 1 million units of a product annually for three years. The per-unit cost is $10 in year one, $12 in year two, and $14 in year three, and ABC sells each unit for $50. It sold 500,000 units of the product in each of the first three years, leaving a total of 1.5 million units on hand. Assuming that demand will remain constant, it only purchases 500,000 units in year four at $15 per unit. 











Year of Purchase
Cost per unit
Quantity
Total Cost


1
$10
1,000,000
$10,000,000


2
$12
1,000,000
$12,000,000


3
$14
1,000,000
$14,000,000


4
$15
500,000
$7,500,000






Despite its forecast, consumer demand for the product increased; ABC sold 1,000,000 units in year four. Under the LIFO method, 500,000 units from year four are liquidated, resulting in revenues of $25 million, COGS of $7.5 million, and gross profits of $17.5 million; and 500,000 units from year three are liquidated, resulting in revenues of $25 million, COGS of $7 million, and gross profits of $18 million. 













Cost Year
Quantity sold
Quantity Remaining
Cost/unit
COGS
Gross Profit (Revenues - COGS) 


4
500,000
0
$15
$7,500,000
$17,500,000


3
500,000
500,000
$14
$7,000,000
$18,000,000


2
0
500,000
$12
 
 


1
0
500,000
$10
What Is LIFO Reserve?  

LIFO reserve is an accounting term that measures the difference between the first in, first out (FIFO) and last in, first out (LIFO) cost of inventory for bookkeeping purposes. The LIFO reserve is an account used to bridge the gap between FIFO and LIFO costs when a company uses the FIFO method to track its inventory but reports under the LIFO method in the preparation of its financial statements.





Key Takeaways

Last in, first out (LIFO) and first in, first out (FIFO) are the two methods of evaluating inventory.LIFO is where the last produced assets are sold first while FIFO is where the first assets produced are sold first.The LIFO reserve is an accounting measure that looks at the difference between the FIFO and LIFO cost of inventory.The reason for using the LIFO reserve is because most businesses use FIFO for internal use but LIFO for external reporting.FIFO shows attractive returns to investors whereas LIFO reduces taxes due to the specific calculations of each method.A company's LIFO reserve = (FIFO inventory) - (LIFO inventory).LIFO reserve is tracked so that companies using different methods of accounting can be accurately compared.


   Understanding LIFO Reserve  

The FIFO method of evaluating inventory is where the goods or services produced first are the goods or services sold first, or disposed of first. The LIFO method of evaluating inventory is when the goods or services produced last are the ones to be sold or disposed of first.



The LIFO reserve comes about because most businesses use the FIFO, or standard cost method, for internal use and the LIFO method for external reporting, as is the case with tax preparation. This is advantageous in periods of rising prices because it reduces a company's tax burden when it reports using the LIFO method.



The LIFO reserve is known as a contra inventory account. A contra account's balance is the opposite of the account it is associated with.


   LIFO vs. FIFO  

For example, when using the LIFO method for inventory accounting in periods of rising prices, the cost of reported inventory is higher than the FIFO method, which, therefore, increases a company's cost of goods sold (COGS), decreasing its pre-tax earnings. When pre-tax earnings are lower, there is a lower amount to pay taxes on, thus, fewer taxes paid overall.



Then, for internal purposes, such as in the case of investor reporting, the same company can use the FIFO method of inventory accounting, which reports lower costs and higher margins, which is attractive to investors. In periods of rising prices, constant increases in costs can create a credit balance in the LIFO reserve, which results in reduced inventory costs when reported on the balance sheet.



Almost all analysts look at a publicly-traded company's LIFO reserve. Often earnings need to be adjusted for changes in the LIFO reserve, as in adjusted EBITDA and some types of adjusted earnings per share (EPS).


   Calculating LIFO Reserve  

When preparing company financials for the LIFO method, the difference in costs in inventory between LIFO and FIFO is the LIFO reserve. Therefore, a company's LIFO reserve = (FIFO inventory) - (LIFO inventory). LIFO reserve is usually tracked so that companies using different methods of accounting can be accurately compared.



In order to ensure accuracy, a LIFO reserve is calculated at the time the LIFO method was adopted. The year-to-year changes in the balance within the LIFO reserve can also give a rough representation of that particular year's inflation, assuming the type of inventory has not changed.



Accounting professionals have discouraged the use of the word "reserve," encouraging accountants to use other terms like "revaluation to LIFO," "excess of FIFO over LIFO cost," or "LIFO allowance."


   Benefits of LIFO Reserve  

As stated, one of the benefits of the LIFO reserve is to allow investors and analysts to compare companies that use different accounting methods, equally. The most important benefit is that it allows a comparison between LIFO and FIFO and the ability to understand any differences, including how taxes might be impacted.



This allows companies to better adjust their financial statements and budget in regards to sales, costs, taxes, and profits.
What Is the Lightning Network?  

The Lightning Network is a second layer for Bitcoin (BTC) that uses micropayment channels to scale the blockchain’s capability and handle transactions more efficiently and more cheaply. It is a technological solution designed to solve glitches associated with Bitcoin by introducing off-chain transactions. Its channel is a transaction mechanism between two parties, in which each can make or receive payments from the other.





Key Takeaways

The Lightning Network is a technological solution intended to solve the problem of slow transaction speed on the Bitcoin blockchain by introducing off-chain transactions.Like a primary blockchain, the Lightning Network removes from the transaction the financial intermediary, such as a bank, which is responsible for routing most transactions today.Joseph Poon and Thaddeus Dryja were the first to formally propose the Lightning Network in a 2016 paper.



At first, Bitcoin was intended to be a decentralized payment system in which the users could remain anonymous and access it from anywhere. Bitcoin wasn't designed to be scalable. However, because Bitcoin's popularity created problems, a solution needed to be found.



Enter Lightning Network. To counter the situations of slow transaction speed and excessive energy use, developers created cryptocurrency layers, in which the first layer is the primary blockchain. Each layer beneath the first one is a secondary or tertiary layer and complements the layer above it and adds functions. The Lightning Network can also be used to handle other types of off-chain transactions involving exchanges between cryptocurrencies.


   Understanding the Lightning Network  

Joseph Poon and Thaddeus Dryja first proposed the Lightning Network in 2016, and it has been under development since then. The problems the Lightning Network was devised to solve were Bitcoin's slow transaction time and throughput, or processing time, as well as costs.


   What Issues Does the Lightning Network Try to Address?  

Bitcoin wasn't created to handle the vast number of transactions using it that now occur daily. Some issues the Lightning Network attempts to correct are:



Sluggishness in confirming transactions: It had become expensive and time-consuming because there are many users transacting, and mining difficulty increases over time. The increase in transaction numbers required improving the manner in which transactions were confirmed.
High energy costs: The energy necessary to compute this information is enormous, making maintaining the Bitcoin blockchain prohibitively expensive.
Ensuring that designated recipients receive the funds they are entitled to: Smart contracts and multi-signatures are the backbone of the Lightning Network, used to ensure the funds sent through the channels make it to the right recipients.



The Lightning Network uses channels between participants, so that multiple transactions can be handled without waiting for the slower main net to confirm single exchanges. Between the opening and closing of a channel, parties can shift funds between themselves as needed until they close the channel. Once the channel is closed, the transactions go to the main net for confirmation.


   Concerns About the Lightning Network   

The most obvious problem with the Lightning Network is that it could lead to a replication of the hub-and-spoke model that characterizes today’s financial systems. In the current model, banks and financial institutions are the primary intermediaries through which all transactions occur.



Businesses that invest in Lightning Network nodes may become similar hubs or centralized nodes in the network by having more open connections with others. Other concerns are fraud, fees, hacks, and price volatility.






Lightning Network has reached 5,490 BTC in capacity as of mid-2023 , up from 3,350 BTC since the beginning of 2022.


  Closed-Channel Fraud  

One risk when using the Lightning Network is closing the channel (logging off) and going offline. For example, suppose Sam and Judy are transacting, and one has malicious intent. The dishonest party may be able to steal coins from the other participant using a technique called "fraudulent channel close."



Let's say Sam and Judy each put up an initial deposit of 0.5 BTC to open a channel, and a transaction of 1 BTC has taken place in which Sam purchased goods from Judy. If Judy logs off (closes the channel) after transferring the goods and Sam doesn't, Sam could broadcast the initial state (the time before the 1 BTC was transferred), meaning they both get their initial deposits back as if no transactions were done. In other words, Sam would have received 1 BTC worth of goods for free—and the deposit is returned.



This makes it necessary for third parties to run on nodes to prevent fraud within the Lightning Network, called a watchtower. The watchtower monitors the transactions and helps prevent a fraudulent channel close.


  Fees  

Transaction fees are associated with using the Lightning Network. They are a combination of routing charges for routing payment information between Lightning nodes, opening and closing channels, and Bitcoin’s usual transaction fees. Additionally, because the watchtowers are third parties, many charge fees for this service.



Once two parties settle the bill between themselves, they must record a closing transaction for the agreed amount on the blockchain, which includes the fee charged for forwarding the transactions. This is either a base fee (a set fee) or a fee rate (a percentage of the transaction).


  Hacks  

The Lightning Network is also believed to be vulnerable to hacks and thefts because payment channels, wallets, and application programming interfaces (APIs) all can be hacked.






Individual payment channels between various parties combine to form a network of Lightning Network nodes that can route transactions among themselves. The interconnections between different payment channels result in the Lightning Network.


  Malicious Attacks  

Another risk to the network is congestion caused by a malicious attack. If the payment channels become congested, and there's a malicious hack or attack, the participants may not be able to get their money back fast enough due to the congestion. Attackers can also use a denial-of-service attack to congest a channel, essentially freezing it.



In these types of attacks, the attacker could use the congestion to steal funds from parties who are unable to withdraw their funds because of the network freeze.




What Is the Lightning Network?
The Lightning Network is a second layer for the Bitcoin blockchain, which serves to speed up transaction times and decreases network congestion. It is a technological solution designed to solve problems associated with the Bitcoin blockchain by introducing off-chain transactions. Its channel is a transaction mechanism between two parties, in which the each can make or receive payments from the other.




Can I Invest in the Lightning Network?
While you are unable to directly invest in the Lightning Network, private investors can invest in Lightning Labs, the company behind the network.




Who Runs the Lightning Network?
Lightning Labs, led by Elizabeth Stark, is the company that developed the Lightning Network. The network itself is deployed on the internet and runs on thousands of nodes located around the world.


   The Bottom Line  

The Lightning Network, developed by Lightning Labs, is a second layer for Bitcoin, which uses micropayment channels to scale the blockchain’s capability and handle transactions more efficiently and more cheaply. It is a technological solution designed to solve problems that arise from using Bitcoin, through the use of off-chain transactions. The Lightning Network isn't impregnable and may be subject to various schemes, such as replication of the hub-and-spoke model, closed-channel fraud, hacks, and malicious attacks.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info.
What Is Like-for-Like Sales?  

Like-for-like sales are used as an adjusted growth metric that includes revenues generated from stores or products with similar characteristics while omitting any with distinct differences that could skew the numbers.



Like-for-like sales are also referred to as comparable-store sales, comps, same-store sales, or identical-store sales.





Key Takeaways

Like-for-like sales numbers indicate the revenues of stores or products with similar characteristics, omitting outliers that could distort the results.Comparison of the numbers over time gives insight into the factors that are contributing to a company's growth or decline.Sales analysis may be used to isolate many factors that contribute to success or failure.Like-for-like sales give companies insight into existing stores versus newly opened stores.Companies can improve like-for-like sales by offering promotions or sales and using customer data to gain important insights.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Like-for-Like Sales  

Like-for-like sales serve as a method of financial analysis that is used to identify which of a company's products, divisions, or stores are contributing to its growth and which are lagging. It also excludes extraneous factors that could artificially inflate or deflate the numbers, such as a major foreign acquisition.



Like-for-like sales analysis helps companies and investors gain insight into which products are contributing to a company's growth or decline. It is commonly used when making granular sales comparisons, such as comparing sales in specific regions or comparing two retailers selling identical products. It is particularly helpful when a company operates more than one type of retail operation, like Walmart Inc.'s Walmart and Sam's Club stores.



When analyzing like-for-like sales, segments are typically grouped to show their percentage growth rates for a particular time period. As in any financial analysis, like-for-like data can be compared to the same quarter in a previous year, the prior quarter, or across several sequential quarters.






A company’s quarterly financial reporting often includes the like-for-like metrics it considers significant to its business.


   Benefits of Like-for-Like Sales  

Retail companies use the like-for-like metric most often for their insight into existing stores versus newly opened stores. If a retail company has a high like-for-like store sales growth rate and a high total revenue growth rate, it can be seen as a sign that established stores are driving growth. If a company has an average like-for-like store sales growth rate but a high total revenue growth rate, it can be a sign that new stores or new products are drawing shoppers' attention.



Like-for-like sales metrics help companies know if a product or store is contributing to its bottom line and if it is experiencing desired growth. It can also help companies decide whether opening a new location or expanding production is worthwhile. Also, like-for-like sales can reveal if a new store is taking sales away from established locations, which is known as cannibalization.


   How to Improve Like-for-Like Sales  

Improving like-for-like sales translates to increased revenues and a healthier bottom line. To improve like-for-like sales, companies can employ several strategies.



Promotions and sales are effective ways to increase sales and drive traffic, and it sets the business apart from its competitors. These events must be carefully planned and executed to protect profits and encourage customers to continue purchasing. When done properly, customer loyalty increases and new customers are converted.






Because there is no industry standard for calculating like-for-like sales, they are not usually used as the sole metric for measuring growth and performance.



Companies can also increase like-for-like sales by gathering customer information and using it to expand their customer base and increase sales. Collecting customer data can help companies identify what's important to customers and how to craft future promotions and sales. This can be achieved through incentive or rewards programs, whereby customer data is gathered in exchange for rewards and exclusive or early access to sales. Most importantly, companies can stay in front of the customer, promoting new products and offering deals to encourage purchases.


   Special Considerations  

A company’s fourth-quarter reporting is often the best time to look at a company’s results, and specifically at its like-for-like sales metrics, as it provides a comparison based on the full fiscal year and prior fiscal year.



In addition to reporting sales revenue by comparable-store sales or geographical store sales, companies may use other segmentation approaches that are worth following. In particular, global companies have to deal with foreign exchange rates, which can affect sales revenue. Many of these companies will include details on currency adjustments and how they influenced sales and net income.


   Real-World Example  

Like-for-like or same-store sales commonly control openings and closings by including only locations that have been in operation for a year or more. This also is key to isolating growth catalysts.



McDonald's Corp. reported a global comparable sales increase of 7.5% in the first quarter of 2021 with a U.S. comparable store sales increase of 13.6%, while total sales/revenues increased 9% overall. What does that tell us? McDonald's opened a lot of new stores but existing store sales grew relatively modestly.
What Is a Like-Kind Exchange?  

A like-kind exchange is a tax-deferred transaction that allows for the disposal of an asset and the acquisition of another similar asset without generating a capital gains tax liability from the sale of the first asset.



Until the passage of tax legislation in December 2017, that could have included the exchange of one business for another—or one piece of tangible property, such as artwork or heavy equipment, for another. After 2017, a like-kind exchange applies only to the exchange of a business or real estate investment property for another property.





Key Takeaways

A like-kind exchange is used when someone wants to sell an asset and acquire a similar one while avoiding the capital gains tax.Like-kind exchanges are heavily monitored by the IRS and require accurate bookkeeping to ensure that no tax penalty is incurred.Savvy sellers can use the like-kind exchange to defer other specific types of gains, such as depreciation.Taxes under a like-kind exchange are deferred, not eliminated.A like-kind exchange allows the seller to defer their depreciation recapture.


   How a Like-Kind Exchange Works  

When a commercial property or investment property is sold for a gain, the investor is required to pay a capital gains tax on the profit earned. All capital gains are taxed at either the short-term capital gains rate between 10% to 37% for profits made on a sale within one year or the long-term rate, which falls between 10% to 20% for profits made on a sale after one year of the initial purchase date.






A like-kind exchange is also known as a 1031 exchange or a Starker exchange.



However, Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) exempts an investor from making a tax payment on a gain if the proceeds from the sale or disposal of the property are reinvested in a similar property of equal or greater value as part of a qualifying like-kind exchange. Any real estate, except for one’s own personal residence, is considered like-kind to any other real estate. Generally, any real estate property held for productive use in the trade or business or for investment qualifies for a like-kind exchange.



A taxpayer that sells a piece of investment property and buys another within a stipulated time limit will not have to pay tax on the first disposal. They will have to pay tax upon sale or disposal of the second property unless another like-kind exchange is done, in which case the tax payment will be deferred again.



There are several important considerations to keep in mind with a like-kind exchange to ensure that a tax liability is not created upon the sale of the first asset:



The asset being sold must be an investment property and cannot be a personal residence.The asset being purchased with the proceeds must be similar to the asset being sold.The proceeds from the sale must be used to purchase the other asset within 180 days of the sale of the first asset, although you must identify the property or asset that you are purchasing in the like-kind exchange within 45 days of the sale.



There are some limitations on the amount of capital gain that is tax-deferred, so ensure that you check the latest tax rules before proceeding with a like-kind exchange.


   Special Considerations  

In addition to the tax deferral benefits, a like-kind exchange allows the seller to defer their depreciation recapture–the gain received from the sale of depreciable capital property that must be reported as income for income tax purposes. A taxpayer can also avoid state taxes on like-kind exchanges.



For example, some states require that either a buyer or seller pay state income taxes when a property is sold, known as state mandatory withholding. Property transferred in a like-kind exchange, however, can receive an exemption. To claim the exemption, the taxpayer will need to sign an exemption form or certificate provided by the state. Some states require the seller to submit the exemption 20 days before closing, while other states may allow the exemption form to be submitted at closing.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Like-Kind Exchange  

The most glaring benefit of a like-kind exchange is the favorable tax treatment. Under this exchange, an asset can be replaced with a like-kind asset without triggering a taxable event. The exchange need not be with an asset identical to the one being replaced; it must be in the same asset class.



The IRS sets no limit on how often someone can do a 1031 exchange. So, investors can continuously look for more lucrative opportunities. Also, money that would have been used to pay capital gains taxes is available for reinvestment.



Although a like-kind exchange offers tax benefits, they are temporary. Taxes are deferred, not eliminated. At some point, capital gains taxes will be due. Also, if the exchange does not take place within the prescribed period or according to IRS rules, the transaction will become taxable.



Just as capital gains taxes are deferred, so are losses. A like-kind exchange that includes losses must be carried forward.





Pros

Tax-deferral of capital gains
More money to reinvest
No limit on number of exchanges



Cons

Strict IRS rules and regulations
Losses are deferred
Tax obligation remains





   Example of a Like-Kind Exchange  

A like-kind exchange is ideal for a business owner looking to sell their business and invest in another one or a real estate investor looking to sell a rental property and buy a similar one. An 8824 Form must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) detailing the terms of the deal. Gain recognized because boot—cash, liabilities, or other property that is not like-kind and that is given or received in a like-kind exchange—was received is reported on Form 8949, Schedule D (Form 1040), or Form 4797, as applicable. If depreciation must be recaptured, then this recognized gain may have to be reported as ordinary income.


   Like-Kind Exchange FAQs  
  What Is the Purpose of a Third-Party Intermediary in a Deferred Like-Kind Exchange?  

The third-party intermediary, or qualified intermediary, fulfills documentation requirements and ensures that sales proceeds are held until the exchange is complete and that the exchange adheres to IRS guidelines. Given the complexity of these transactions, there are advantages to working with a full-service 1031 exchange company with an established track record.


  How Do You Report a Like-Kind Exchange That Falls in Two Tax Years?  

For a successful like-kind exchange that straddles two years, the taxpayer will report the transaction on IRS Form 8824.﻿﻿ The exchange will be reported for the year in which the exchange began. For exchange funds received in the next tax year, the taxpayer will report those proceeds on IRS Form 6252.



For a failed like-kind exchange that straddles two tax years, the taxpayer may be required to report any gains under the installment method.﻿﻿ Even though they don't qualify for the like-kind exchange, they still may be able to defer gains for one year.


  When Is a Realized Loss Recognized in a Like-Kind Exchange?  

A loss is not realized until the transaction becomes taxable. Under a like-kind exchange, capital losses are tax-deferred just like capital gains are.


   The Bottom Line  

A like-kind exchange offers favorable tax benefits to those who qualify. Taxpayers can continue to defer capital gains tax indefinitely and have no limits on how often they can perform like-kind exchanges. The IRS sets strict guidelines on what can be exchanged and when. Despite its benefits, taxpayers must be aware that losses under a like-kind exchange are deferred and taxes are not avoidable.
What Is a Like-Kind Property?  

The term like-kind property refers to two real estate assets of a similar nature regardless of grade or quality that can be exchanged without incurring any tax liability. The Internal Revenue Code (IRC) defines a like-kind property as any held for investment, trade, or business purposes under Section 1031, making them a 1031 exchange. This means both properties involved in the exchange must be for business or investment purposes. Personal residences, therefore, do not qualify as like-kind properties.





Key Takeaways

Like-kind properties are real estate assets of a similar nature that can be exchanged without incurring any tax liability under Section 1031 of the Internal Tax Code.Properties must be held for business or investment purposes but do not need to be similar in grade or quality.Primary residences do not qualify for a 1031 exchange.Properties must be held in the United States in order to qualify as like-kind.


   Understanding Like-Kind Properties  

People or businesses that hold qualifying business or investment properties can exchange them in a like-kind exchange. This is known as a tax-deferred or 1031 exchange under Section 1031 of the U.S. tax code, allowing the seller to avoid paying capital gains on the exchange. The like-kind property must meet the definition set out by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to qualify for a Section 1031 transfer. In order to qualify for tax deferral, like-kind properties cannot be sold directly—they must be exchanged.



The like-kind property also must be within the United States to qualify. So a seller cannot use the proceeds from selling a hotel in the U.S. to buy a hotel in Dubai and expect to defer capital gains on the sale. Securities, stocks, bonds, partnership interests, and other financial assets are excluded from the definition of like-kind property.






Securities, stocks, bonds, partnership interests, and other financial assets are not considered like-kind properties and are exempt from tax deferrals.



Like-kind exchanges can take several different forms. In a simultaneous exchange, the two properties can be exchanged on the same day. There's also the deferred exchange in which the party has 180 days to finalize the exchange after it takes place. For example, if an investor sells farmland, they have 45 days to identify a replacement property. The purchase of the like-kind property must be completed within 180 days of the farmland sale or by the due date for the tax return that year. The IRS may grant an extension on the taxes to allow for the like-kind exchange to be completed before filing.



Many people believe that like-kind properties must be of the same size or type to qualify. But that's not true—different assets can be exchanged as long as they qualify. Primary or principal residences—which are for personal use for the most part—do not qualify and cannot be exchanged. Properties must be held for business or investment purposes. Here are a few examples of like-kind property exchanges:



A multifamily property for an industrial building
Vacant land for a medical complex
An apartment building for a shopping center
A hotel for a retail property
A condominium rental for a single-family rental


   Special Considerations  

The like-kind property exchange for real estate transactions is still in force, but various changes to the tax code have chewed away at other parts of the definition. In the past, the like-kind property exchange was used for assets that include everything from cars to art to cryptocurrency holdings.



The 1031 exchange process can be quite complex, and any missteps can be very costly. Therefore, it may be worthwhile to work with a reputable, full-service 1031 exchange company. In general, these companies are much less expensive than paying an attorney by the hour because of their scale, and you may gain peace of mind by contracting a firm with a solid track record in dealing with these transactions.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) passed in December 2017 removed everything but real estate held for business, trade, or investment. There has been a robust debate on why real estate should enjoy such favored tax status when other investments like machinery and equipment must deal with capital gains on every sale regardless of reinvestment. As of 2021, however, the like-kind property exchange is still an excellent way to build tax-deferred wealth in real estate.
What Is the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act?  

The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 is a law enacted by Congress to bolster worker protections against pay discrimination. The Act allows individuals facing pay discrimination to seek rectification under federal anti-discrimination laws.



The law clarifies that discrimination based on age, religion, national origin, race, sex, and disability will “accrue” every time the employee receives a paycheck that is deemed discriminatory. It was the first bill President Barack Obama signed into law and is one of a number of federal laws designed to protect the rights of workers.





Key Takeaways

The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act addresses wage discrimination on the basis of age, religion, national origin, race, sex, and disability.The Act supplants a Supreme Court ruling that wage discrimination cases must be filed within 180 days of the start of the discrimination.The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act effectively resets the clock by saying that wage discrimination cases can be filed within 180 days of the last paycheck in which the discrimination occurs.


   Understanding the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act  

The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act reinstated the protection against pay discrimination that had been removed by the Supreme Court in Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. in 2007. It restored previous protections regarding the equal treatment of employees, most notably Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The 2009 statute clarified that any inequitable payment is unlawful, even if it is the result of a pay decision made in the past.



The act is named in honor of Lilly Ledbetter, a former manager at a Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. plant in Alabama. After Ledbetter discovered that her male peers were receiving substantially higher pay for similar roles, she filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).



In 1998, Ledbetter filed an equal-pay lawsuit, alleging pay discrimination on the basis of sex under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The trial jury awarded her back pay and more than $3.3 million in compensatory and punitive damages.



However, the Supreme Court upheld a lower court ruling that said claims like Ledbetter’s had to be filed within 180 days of an employer’s decision to pay a worker less, even if the worker didn’t learn about the unfair pay until much later. As a result, Ledbetter never collected any kind of settlement from Goodyear.



The ruling, and a dissenting opinion by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in which she wrote, "once again, the ball is in Congress's court," ignited activist groups, who saw the court's decision as a setback for women and civil rights.



This led to the creation of a bill that bore Ledbetter's name and gives employees the right to file suit 180 days after the last pay violation and not only 180 days after the initial pay disparity. In effect, each paycheck restarts the 180-day countdown to file a claim.






If you believe that you are being paid less than your co-workers because of your race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or disability, you can file a complaint with the EEOC. The complaint process is explained on the agency’s website.


   Special Considerations  

One documented area of pay discrimination is the pay gap between men and women. In 2021, women’s annual earnings were 83.7% of men’s, according to data published by the U.S. Census Bureau.






Although the slogan “Equal Pay for Equal Work” dates back to the 1860s, Congress didn’t take major action to address the gender wage gap until the passage of the Equal Pay Act in 1963.



In addition, many experts believe that the practice of prospective employers asking job candidates about salary history furthers discrimination and the pay gap. In recent years, a growing number of states and municipalities have addressed this issue.



As of February 2022, 21 states (as well as Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico) have adopted measures that prohibit some employers from asking about salary history.



Prohibiting employers from asking about salary history seems to work. According to a study authored by economists at the Boston University School of Law, women's pay rises 8% to 9% under salary history bans, while the pay of Black workers increases 13% to 16%.




What Impact Did the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Have?
The Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act allowed for women to dispute pay disparities from any period of their career. They could contest their current salary based on their starting salary from 8 years ago on the basis that their starting salary was discriminatorily low which directly effects their current salary. The impact is that it allows women to contest their salary for discriminatory reasons at any point in their career, instead of within a certain time period, as was the law before.




Did Lily Ledbetter Receive Backpay?
In her first trial against Goodyear, the judge ruled in her favor and awarded her backpay as well as the cost of compensatory and punitive damages. However, Goodyear appealed the case because she had not filed a complaint within 180 days, and won.




Was the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Effective?
Policies like the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act can help narrow the gender pay gap. However, the gender pay gap still exists, and closing the gap remains unfinished business in the United States in creating a more equitable country for men and women.


   The Bottom Line  

The Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act is just one of the many advances made for women in the gender pay gap, but there is still a ways to go. The gender pay gap still exists. The Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act serves as one of the protections that those who are discriminated against can rely on to help even out their pay.
What Is Limit Down?  

Limit down is a decline in the price of a futures contract or a stock large enough to trigger trading restrictions under exchange rules. Limits on the speed of market price movements, up or down, aim to dampen unusual volatility and to give traders time to react to market-moving news, if any. Trading curbs triggered by extreme price movements are sometimes called circuit breakers.



Limit down measures the decline from a reference price, usually but not always the prior session's closing price. The limit down is typically expressed as a percentage of the reference price, but occasionally in absolute terms as a dollar value.





Key Takeaways

Limit down is a decline in the price of a futures contract or a stock sufficient to trigger trading restrictions.Restrictions can be in the form of trading halts ranging from five minutes to the remainder of the session. They can also allow trading to proceed at prices no lower than the limit down.The Limit Up-Limit Down rule attempts to dampen sudden price moves in individual stocks.Market-wide circuit breakers are triggered by large intraday declines in the S&P 500 index.


   Understanding Limit Down  

Trading curbs including limit down halts are designed to limit self-reinforcing plunges and surges in market prices based on the behavior of other market participants and in response to late-breaking information.



Once the limit down price is reached, trading restrictions kick in. These can range from a trading halt as short as five minutes to one that lasts for the remainder of the day. Some rules permit trading to continue with limit down as the minimum price.


   Limit Down in Futures Markets  

The London Metal Exchange adopted a limit down rule restricting trading to a pre-set percentage decline from the prior closing price in March 2022, in response to volatile trading in nickel futures.



CME Group energy futures impose a two-minute trading pause when markets move up or down more than 10% in an hour.



For lumber and agricultural products, CME Group sets the limit down as a change in dollar terms from the settlement price in the prior session. The limits are reset twice a year based on a percentage of the average price over a preceding 45-day period.


   Stock Market Circuit Breakers  

U.S. stock markets are subject to trading restrictions triggered by severe daily declines in the S&P 500 index as follows:



a decline of 7% from the prior day's close before 3:25 p.m. Eastern time initiates a 15-minute trading pause for all stocksa decline of 13% from the prior day's close before 3:25 p.m. ET also requires a 15-minute trading pause in all equity tradinga decline of 20% from the prior's day's close at any time during the trading day halts trading for the remainder of the day



U.S. stock markets were halted for 15 minutes after a 7% intraday drop in the S&P 500 index on four occasions during the sell-off sparked by the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020.


   Limit Down for Individual Stocks  

The so-called Limit Up-Limit Down rule, in effect since 2012, requires trading starts lasting 5 to 10 minutes for stocks experiencing excessive volatility.



For stocks included in the S&P 500 or the Russell 1000 indexes and certain exchange-traded products, the trading pause starts once the price moves up or down at least 5% from the average price in the preceding five-minute period for securities priced above $3. For other stocks priced above $3, a move of 10% from the same reference price is grounds for a five-minute halt.



The Limit Up-Limit Down rule and the S&P 500 circuit breakers were adopted after the 2010 "flash crash," which saw the S&P 500 drop nearly 9% at the intraday lows of May 6, 2010.
What Is a Limit Order?  

A limit order in the financial markets is a direction to purchase or sell a stock or other security at a specified price or better. This stipulation allows traders to better control the prices at which they trade. A limit can be placed on either a buy or a sell order:



A buy limit order will be executed only at the limit price or a lower price. A sell limit order will be executed only at the limit price or a higher one. 



The price is guaranteed, but the filling of the order is not. Limit orders will be executed only if the price meets the order qualifications.



The alternative to a limit order is a market order, which calls for a trade to be executed at the prevailing market price without any price limit specified.





Key Takeaways

A limit order guarantees that an order is filled at or better than a specific price level.A limit order is not guaranteed to be filled, however.Limit orders control execution price but can result in missed opportunities in fast-moving market conditions.Limit orders can be used in conjunction with stop orders to prevent large downside losses.A limit order is usually valid for either a specific number of days (i.e. 30 days), until the order is filled, or until the trader cancels the order. 












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How Limit Orders Work  

A limit order is the use of a pre-specified price to buy or sell a security. For example, if a trader is looking to buy XYZ’s stock but has a limit of $14.50, they will only buy the stock at a price of $14.50 or lower. If the trader is looking to sell shares of XYZ’s stock with a $14.50 limit, the trader will not sell any shares until the price is $14.50 or higher.



By using a buy limit order the investor is guaranteed to pay the buy limit order price or better, but it is not guaranteed that the order will be filled. A limit order gives a trader more control over the execution price of a security, especially if they are fearful of using a market order during periods of heightened volatility. 



There are various times to use a limit order such as when a stock is rising or falling very quickly, and a trader is fearful of getting a bad fill from a market order. Additionally, a limit order can be useful if a trader is not watching a stock and has a specific price in mind at which they would be happy to buy or sell that security. Limit orders can also be left open with an expiration date.






   Limit Order Example  

A portfolio manager wants to buy Tesla Inc's (TSLA) stock but believes its current valuation at roughly $750 per share is too high and would like to buy the stock should it fall to a specific price. The PM instructs his traders to buy 10,000 shares of Tesla should the price fall below $650, good 'til canceled. The trader then places an order to buy 10,000 shares with a $650 limit. Should the stock fall below that price the trader can begin buying the stock. The order will remain open until the stock reaches the PM’s limit or the PM cancels the order.



Additionally, the PM would like to sell Amazon.com Inc.'s (AMZN) stock but feels its current price of roughly $2,300 is too low. The PM instructs his trader to sell 5,000 shares should the price rise above $2,750, good until canceled. The trader will then put the order out to sell 5,000 shares with a $2,750 limit.






Brokerage firms may not allow limit orders if they are illogical (i.e. if a limit to buy is placed at greater than price), Brokerage firms may also offer this service to investors for free.


   Limit Orders vs. Market Orders  

When an investor places an order to buy or sell a stock, there are two main execution options in terms of price: place the order "at market" or "at limit." Market orders are transactions meant to execute as quickly as possible at the present or market price. Conversely, a limit order sets the maximum or minimum price at which you are willing to buy or sell.



Buying stocks can be thought of with an analogy to buying a car. With a car, you can pay the dealer’s sticker price and get the car or you can negotiate a price and refuse to finalize the deal unless the dealer meets your price. The stock market can be thought of to work in a similar way.



A market order deals with the execution of the order; the price of the security is secondary to the speed of completing the trade. Limit orders deal primarily with the price; if the security's value is currently resting outside of the parameters set in the limit order, the transaction does not occur.




What Is a Limit Order?
A limit order is a direction given to a broker to buy or sell a security at a specific price or better. It is a way for traders to execute trades at desired prices without having to constantly monitor markets. It is also a way to hedge risk and ensure losses are minimized by capturing sale prices at certain levels.




How Does a Limit Order Work?
A limit order is placed with your broker. That limit order states the security, the quantity, the price, and whether you are in a buy or sell position. The order is not triggered until the specific desired market price is achieved. Even then, execution of the limit order is not guaranteed, especially in highly volatile markets or regarding highly volatile securities with low liquidity.




What Is the Difference Between a Limit Order and a Stop-Limit Order?
A limit order is an order requesting the purchase or sale of securities should a specific price be met. A stop-limit order builds one additional layer that requires a specific price be met that is different than the sale price. For example, a limit order to sell your security for $15 will likely execute when the market price reaches $15. Alternatively, a stop-limit order can be placed to sell your security for $15 only if the share price has dropped from $20 to $16.




How Long Does a Limit Order Last?
The term of the limit order will depend on your specification and your broker’s policy. Many brokers default limit orders to day-only trades; any unfilled orders at market close are canceled without execution. Other brokers may offer a specific number of days often in intervals of 30 (i.e. 30 days, 60 days, or 90 days). Last, some brokers offer limit orders that are considered good until filled; the limit order will remain valid until it is filled or deliberately canceled by the trader.




Why Did My Limit Order Not Get Filled?
A limit order may not get filled for a few reasons. First, your limit order will only trigger when market pricing meet your desired contract amount. If a security is trading above your buy order or below your sell order, it will likely not fill until there is price action on your security.A limit order can only fill if a security has liquidity. If the security does not have enough shares trading at the specific price you placed, your order may not fill. This is most common for larger orders placed on low-volume securities. Due to volatility, a stock on the day of its IPO may have difficulty filling due to rapid price fluctuation.
What Is a Limit Order Book?  

A limit order book is a record of outstanding limit orders maintained by the security specialist who works at the exchange. A limit order is a type of order to buy or sell a security at a specific price or better. A buy limit order is an order to buy at a preset price or lower while a sell limit order is an order to sell a security at a pre-specified price or higher.



When a limit order for a security is entered, it is kept on record by the security specialist. As buy and sell limit orders for the security are given, the specialist keeps a record of all of these orders in the order book. The specialist executes the orders at or better than the given limit price when the market moves to the pre-specified price.





Key Takeaways

A limit order book is a record of outstanding limit orders maintained by the security specialist who works at the exchange.A limit order is a type of order to buy or sell a security at a specific price or better.When a limit order for a security is entered, it is kept on record by the security specialist. As buy and sell limit orders for the security are given, the specialist keeps a record of all of these orders in the order book.


   Understanding a Limit Order Book  

The specialist running the limit order book has the responsibility to guarantee that the top priority order is executed before other orders in the book, and before other orders at an equal or worse price held or submitted by other traders on the floor, such as floor brokers and market makers.



The specialist earns a profit off of the spread between the difference in prices between the bid and ask orders on their book as they execute the orders. With the advancements in trading system technologies, the process has shifted from a manual process to one that is largely automated.


   Tracking Limit Orders  

In 2000, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) began to create a centralized limit order book that keeps track of limit orders on exchanges electronically. This electronic order tracking system automatically matches for the execution of the best possible pair of orders in the system. The best pair is made up of the highest bid, and the lowest ask orders.



The bid is the price the specialist or exchange will sell a security or the price at which an investor can buy the security. The ask or offer is the price at which the specialist or exchange will buy a security or the price at which the investor can sell the security.



When a limit order is entered into a trading system and fielded by either a specialist working the book or an electronic database of orders, it will stay on the books until it can be matched with a suitable trade and executed. Buy limit orders are placed with an upper price threshold. The investor would say "I don't want to pay more than $X for this share." Sell limit orders are placed with a lower price threshold. The investor would say "I don't want to sell this share for less than $X."


   Limit Order Qualifiers  

A limit order may include "qualifiers." Without qualifiers on an order, the request will be valid only for the market day, considered a "day order," and may expire without any purchase, or with only a partial fulfillment of shares.



If an investor's order states, "buy 10,000 shares of XYZ common @32," they have requested to buy 10,000 shares at $32 or a better price, the qualifier for this order.



If the investor's strategy requires 10,000 to be filled at any time at the requested price or better, it may be entered as "buy 10,000 shares XYZ @32 GTC." A "Good 'Til Cancelled" order instructs the market to acquire those shares until the order is canceled, even if the purchase is completed 100 shares at a time and over several weeks. The investor wants the order completed regardless of how long the market takes to fill the order.



Another qualifier is the AON, or "All of None." Investors may not want to risk only partially completing the order, so they use this qualifier to instruct the market to fill this order with all 10,000 shares as requested or buy none.



There are other types of order qualifiers that allow an investor to ensure the transaction is executed exactly in the manner that suits their particular investment objective, and in each case, define the "limits" the investor is putting on the market to make the trade.


   Special Considerations  

Investors are guaranteed to get the price if the order is triggered after the market moves to the specified level. However, there is no guarantee that the limit order will be executed. In other words, the order can only be filled if the price hits the price level. Limit orders are helpful to investors because they help ensure that they don't pay more for a security than the pre-set price initially established with the order.
What Is a Limited Common Element?  

The term limited common element refers to an aspect of a condominium unit or complex that is considered to be the property of the community or homeowners association (HOA) rather than that of the tenant. Limited common elements may be found within or outside individual condo units. Although they are deemed common, their use is limited to the occupant of the unit. Examples include balconies, (shared) outdoor space such as patios and terraces, and parking lots and garages.


   Understanding Limited Common Elements  

Limited common elements are defined as any aspects of a shared condominium complex that are part of a unit, but are not considered to be the sole property of the owner or tenant. Limited common elements may include things that are directly connected to individual condominiums such as outer doors, windows, and balconies. They may also include amenities which service every community resident equally such as driveways, garages, elevators, clubhouses, swimming pools, and boat slips. Essentially, although these features may be used by individual owners and occupants, they are ultimately owned by the community as a whole.






Declaration documents lay out what classifies as limited common elements.



Declaration documents are provided to unit owners when they purchase a condo. They specify the aspects and amenities that are considered limited common elements, as well as outline which parts of the property belong to the condominium owner. The declaration also delineates the responsibilities of the unit owner regarding maintenance, repair, and replacement of limited common elements. 



Maintenance of limited common elements usually remains the responsibility of the HOA unless otherwise specified in the declaration. Much of this is paid for through the collection of monthly condominium fees from unit owners. In cases where the declaration does not specify, it is generally assumed that the responsibility of maintaining those elements remains with the community association. As in all such cases, it's important to get the advice of a legal authority when there is any doubt.





Key Takeaways

Limited common elements are parts of a condo that are assigned to individual units, but considered community property rather than the tenant'sExamples of limited common elements include windows, balconies, driveways, elevators, clubhouses, and swimming pools.Laws governing limited common elements may vary from state to state.


   Special Considerations  

Laws and regulations that govern condominiums and similarly planned communities—including the ways they regulate common elements—vary from state to state. Although many states have adopted similar legislation, there are some jurisdictions that do not allow for the implementation of such legislation.



The Uniform Condominium Act (UCA) was established in 1980 to create and govern condominium associations. Fourteen states have passed this act into law, including Alabama, Arizona, Kentucky, Maine, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas, Virginia, Washington, and West Virginia.



The Uniform Common Interest Ownership Act (UCIOA) was created in 1982 as a set of state-wide regulations for managing condominiums, planned communities, and real estate cooperatives. Five states enacted these regulations in 1982, including Alaska, Colorado, Minnesota, Nevada, and West Virginia. Revisions to the UCIOA were adopted by Connecticut, Delaware, Vermont, and Washington in subsequent years.



Pennsylvania passed the Uniform Planned Community Act (UPCA), which governs the creation and management of planned communities. Virginia passed the Real Estate Cooperative Act as a companion to the UCA in order to govern the creation, financing, and management of real estate cooperatives.


   Limited Common Elements vs. Common Elements  

Although they may be used by people who live in the complex, amenities that are not found in individual units are called common elements. These elements remain the sole responsibility of the condo corporation or the HOA, whether that's repairing, maintaining, or replacing them in their entirety. Examples of common elements include pipes, electrical systems, heating and air conditioning systems, walkways, security systems, lighting in common hallways, lobbies, garbage and recycling areas, and others.
What Is a Limited Company (LC)?  

A limited company (LC) is a general form of incorporation that limits the amount of liability undertaken by the company's shareholders. It refers to a legal structure that ensures that the liability of company members or subscribers is limited to their stake in the company by way of investments or commitments. In a legal sense, a limited company is a person.



The naming convention for this type of corporate structure is commonly used in the United Kingdom, where a firm's name is followed by the abbreviated "Ltd." In the United States, limited companies come in several forms, including the limited liability corporation (LLC).





Key Takeaways

A limited company (LC) is a general term for a type of business organization wherein owners' assets and income are separate and distinct from the company's assets and income; known as limited liability.Because of this, owners' potential losses are limited to what they have invested while personal assets and income are off-limits.Several variations of limited companies exist around the world and are followed by standard abbreviations including Ltd., PLC, LLC, and AG to name just a few.


   How a Limited Company Works  

As noted, in a limited company, the assets and debts of the company are separate from those of the shareholders. As a result, should the company experience financial distress because of normal business activity, the personal assets of shareholders will not be at risk of being seized by creditors.



Ownership in the limited company can be easily transferred, and many of these companies have been passed down through generations. Unlike a public company, in which anyone can buy shares, membership in a limited company is governed by a company's rules and law.



A limited company can be "limited by shares" or "limited by guarantee." When limited by shares, a company is owned by one or more shareholders and managed by at least one director. In a limited by guarantee arrangement, a company is owned by one or more guarantors and managed by at least one director.



The primary benefit of a limited company is the separation of assets and income from the corporation and the owners and investors through limited liability. This means that if a company goes bust, shareholders can only lose as much as their original investment and no more; creditors or other stakeholders cannot claim owners' personal assets or income. Because of limited liability, investors are more eager to risk capital since their losses are limited in that sense.


   Limited Company Benefits  

Filing as a limited company comes with a number of benefits. They include:



A limited company and the people who run it are legally distinct.A limited company structure provides a firewall between the finances of the company and its owners.A limited company is allowed to own assets and retain any profits made after-tax.A limited company can enter into contracts on its own.



For the privilege, limited companies in the U.K. must pay a variety of taxes, such as a value-added tax (VAT) and capital gains tax, and must contribute to National Insurance. Limited companies in the U.K. receive favorable tax treatment once their income reaches a certain threshold. The corporate tax rate is a flat rate of 19%.﻿﻿



By comparison, unincorporated businesses, such as sole proprietorships and traditional partnerships, do not afford full limits on liability for owners because there is no legal distinction between the business and its owners. If such a business were to become insolvent, its owners would be responsible for its debts.


   Limited Company Variations  

Limited company structures are codified in many nations, though the regulations governing them can differ widely from one nation to the next. For example, in the United Kingdom, there are private limited companies and public limited companies.



Private limited companies are not permitted to offer shares to the public. They are, however, the most popular structures for a small business. Public limited companies (PLCs) may offer shares to the public to raise capital. Those shares may trade on a stock exchange once a total share value threshold is met (at least GBP 50,000). Such a structure is widely employed by larger companies.



In the United States, a limited company is more commonly known as a corporation (Corp.) or as incorporated (Inc.). Some states permit the use of Ltd. (limited) after a company name. Such a designation depends on filing the correct paperwork; just adding the suffix to a company name does not provide any liability protection. Limited companies in the U.S. are required to file corporate taxes annually with regulators. Limited liability companies (LLCs) and limited companies have different structures.



Many countries differentiate between public and private limited companies. For example, in Germany, the Aktiengesellschaft (AG) designation is for public limited companies that can sell shares to the public while GmbH is for private limited companies that cannot issue shares.
What Is a Limited Government?  

A limited government is one where legalized force is restricted through delegated and enumerated authorities. Countries with limited governments have fewer laws about what individuals and businesses can and cannot do. In many countries, a written constitution is used to spell out the powers and limitations of government power.



The opposite of a limited government is an interventionist or authoritarian government. In reality, most countries - even those with otherwise high degrees of freedom and liberty - operate with some amount of government control and intervention.





Key Takeaways

Limited government describes a political system where government bodies are prohibited from certain activities.In Europe, the concept of limited government gained force during the Enlightenment, but it can be dated back at least to the Magna Carta (1215).Many modern political systems have codified legal rights that cannot be violated by the government, police, or military.In economic policies, limited government is frequently associated with the ideas of classical liberalism and laissez-faire economics.While many theorists support the principle of limited government, there are disagreements on how strong those limitations should be. 












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding a Limited Government  

The theory of limited government can be traced back to the Enlightenment philosophers of the seventeenth century, but the idea itself is much older. It is also associated with the free market and classical liberalism, though politicians and economists differ on the exact limitations that a government should have.



In its basic form, a limited government is one whose main function is the protection of people and their property, and it levies just enough taxes to finance services related to these purposes. According to this interpretation, a limited government might tax the population to pay for police or national defense, but it would not concern itself with the beliefs or moral behavior of its citizens.



Another interpretation defines a limited government as one that exercises only the specifically named powers that its constitution assigns to it. It can also be characterized by a separation of powers and a system of checks and balances. For example, the U.S. government is restricted to exercising the specifically named powers that the constitution assigns to it.


   History of Limited Governments  

Limited government, in its modern conception, originated out of the classical liberal tradition in Europe. This tradition emphasized the rights of the individual, in contrast to the monarchies and theocratic governments that dominated Europe at that time.



The Magna Carta, drafted in the year 1215, is one of the earliest written descriptions of a limited government. The document limited the reach of the English king's power by giving the country's nobility the rights that they could exercise over the throne. However, the document only protected a small part of what is today the United Kingdom.



The United States Constitution, written in 1787, extended the idea of a limited government by separating the powers of state and federal governments. It also segmented the federal government into three branches: legislative, judicial, and executive. This is intended to make it difficult for any single person or interest group to control the entirety of government power.



In addition, the Bill of Rights—the first 10 amendments to the U.S. Constitution, ratified in 1791—enumerates certain prohibitions that apply to the government. These rights further limit the federal government by prohibiting certain uses of government power.






While limited government is frequently associated with the free market, the terms are not interchangeable. There have been many instances of authoritarian governments that were friendly to business interests.


   Limited Governments and the Economy  

In economic policy, limited governments seek minimal interventions in trade or commercial activity. They are often associated with concepts such as laissez-faire economics, as first delineated in Adam Smith’s 1776 book entitled An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. In this context, the most extreme sort of limited government would be one that lets supply and demand drive the economy: the government would not intervene to set prices or influence business activity.



Proponents of this view believe that limited government can facilitate economic growth and prosperity by minimizing restrictions on commercial activity. This view—later associated with the Austrian school of economics—holds that government interventions in the economy can distort markets and reduce competition, resulting in shortages or high prices.



Critics of this view believe that the government has an obligation to intervene in the economy, either to support certain industries or reduce wealth inequality. In contemporary economics, this view is frequently associated with John Maynard Keynes, who argued that government spending can actually stimulate economic activity.


   Problems With Limited Governments  

While many contemporary political thinkers agree that government powers should be constrained, there is considerable disagreement on the exact limitations that government power should have. Many critics argue that government has the ability or obligation to solve collective action problems that cannot be solved by market forces alone.



A common example is the environmental regulations that punish businesses for polluting the air or water. Although it is possible for individuals to pursue polluting industries through the court system, this solution is out of reach for many potential victims–particularly those who are excluded from the legal system. Instead, the Environmental Protection Agency is expected to penalize these industries on behalf of the public.



Another is the protection of key industries. Many governments use subsidies or tariffs to support domestic agriculture or manufacturing, even though prices would be cheaper on the world market.



Although protectionism sometimes works on behalf of political interest groups, it can also support industries with a strategic or security value. According to this reasoning, the cost of supporting these industries is lower than the cost of not having them—particularly in the event of a major crisis, such as a war or famine.


   Limited Government vs. Small Government  

It is also possible for a government to be too small. In colloquial usage, the phrase "limited government" is often used interchangeably with "small government"—the idea that governments should impose as few taxes as possible and employ a minimum number of administrators. While these ideas are closely connected, a small government may not necessarily have the resources to protect public interests.



For example, consider a hypothetical country whose taxes are not high enough to pay administrators a competitive salary. In order to make a living, some administrators might resort to graft or bribery, thereby imposing an even greater economic burden than that of taxation.



In fact, research by the World Bank confirms that public-sector salaries play a large part in anti-corruption measures. Based on country data, the Bank concluded that increasing wages could reduce corruption in certain situations when paired with appropriate policies.





1625

The phrase "limited government" appears to have originated during the reign of James VI & I, King of Scotland, England, and Ireland.


   Examples of Limited Governments  

Since 1996, the Fraser Institute – a Canadian research and educational organization – has produced annual reports ranking countries in terms of how much their policies and institutions are supportive of economic freedom. It measures limited government by the size of government (top marginal tax rates, public spending), the legal system (protection of property rights, judicial independence), sound money (inflation), freedom to trade internationally (tariffs, trade barriers), and regulation of credit markets, labor markets, and businesses.



The following rankings come from the Fraser Institute’s 2021 Economic Freedom of the World Index (“Fraser Index”), which analyzes 165 countries and territories.


  Hong Kong  

Technically an autonomous region of China, Hong Kong was nevertheless ranked first in the 2021 Fraser Index, largely because of its low barriers to trade and foreign investment. Hong Kong also has low tax rates and relatively lax labor protections.



It should be noted that the Fraser Index places significantly more importance on economic freedom than political freedom. In 2019—the year that the 2021 data were based on–Hong Kong was also the site of fierce crackdowns, including arbitrary arrests and deportations. Nonetheless, the Fraser Institute ranked Hong Kong first in economic freedom.


  Honduras  

Although it was ranked 70th in terms of economic freedom, the Fraser Index ranked Honduras second in size of government—just behind neighboring Guatemala. Honduras had a high score for its monetary policy and minimal interventions in the economy, balancing out low scores for its legal system.


  New Zealand  

According to the Fraser rankings, New Zealand was the third-freest economy in the world, though it ranked 92 in terms of size of government. The country earned high marks for allowing freedom of trade, business-friendly regulations, and its legal system. However, the country scored lower in size of government, largely due to government spending and subsidies.




How Is Federalism Connected to the Idea of Limited Government?
Federalism refers to a political system that delegates certain powers to local or provincial bodies. In a federalist system, local governments may have their own legislature, courts, tax authority, and other functions of government. In some cases, they may also have the power to secede from the central government.




How Does the Constitution Reflect the Principle of Limited Government?
In the United States, the constitution divides the government into three separate branches, with separate powers and constraints. All three must work together to enact new policies and laws. At the time the constitution was written, it was considered unlikely that any one person or faction to control all three branches. Therefore, this separation was considered a way of preventing government overreach.




Who Came Up With the Idea of Limited Government?
While the concept of limited government dates back to the Magna Carta, the idea was further developed by Enlightenment thinkers in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. The idea that government power requires the consent of the governed originates from John Locke. The concept of separating the government into three branches is attributed to Baron de Montesquieu, and the idea that the government should avoid intervening in commerce is frequently attributed to Adam Smith. Many of these ideas were later integrated into the American and French Revolutions.




Which Countries Have the Highest Degree of Limited Government?
According to the annual Human Freedom Index Report for 2021, co-published by the Cato Institute and Fraser Institute, the highest-scoring country in terms of limited government was Switzerland. The top 10 included (a score of 10.0 is the highest possible):Switzerland — 9.11New Zealand — 9.01Denmark — 8.98Estonia — 8.91Ireland — 8.90Finland — 8.85Canada — 8.85Australia — 8.84Sweden — 8.83Luxembourg — 8.80


   The Bottom Line  

The concept of limited government holds that there should be legal constraints on the power of political authorities, especially with respect to individual rights. The concept is also important in economic affairs, where government intervention may have the effect of disrupting markets and commerce.
What Is Limited Liability?  

Limited liability is a type of legal structure for an organization where a corporate loss will not exceed the amount invested in a partnership or limited liability company (LLC). In other words, investors' and owners' private assets are not at risk if the company fails. In Germany, it's known as Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung (GmbH).



The limited liability feature is one of the biggest advantages of investing in publicly listed companies. While a shareholder can participate wholly in the growth of a company, their liability is restricted to the amount of the investment in the company, even if it subsequently goes bankrupt and has remaining debt obligations.





Key Takeaways

Limited liability is a legal structure of organizations that limits the extent of an economic loss to assets invested in the organization and that keeps the personal assets of investors and owners off-limits.Without limited liability as a legal precedent, many investors would be reluctant to acquire equity ownership in firms and entrepreneurs would be wary of undertaking a new venture.Several limited liability structures exist, such as limited liability partnerships (LLPs), limited liability companies (LLCs), and corporations.


   How Limited Liability Works  

When either an individual or a company functions with limited liability, this means that assets attributed to the associated individuals cannot be seized in an effort to repay debt obligations attributed to the company. Funds that were directly invested with the company, such as with the purchase of company stock, are considered assets of the company in question and can be seized in the event of insolvency.



Any other assets deemed to be in the company’s possession, such as real estate, equipment, and machinery, investments made in the name of the institution, and any goods that have been produced but have not been sold, are also subject to seizure and liquidation.



Without limited liability as a legal precedent, many investors would be reluctant to acquire equity ownership in firms, and entrepreneurs would be wary of undertaking a new venture. This is because creditors and other stakeholders could claim the investors' and owners' assets if the company loses more money than it has. Limited liability prevents that from occurring, so the most that can be lost is the amount invested, with any personal assets held as off-limits.


   Limited Liability Partnerships  

The actual details of a limited liability partnership depend on where it is created. In general, however, your personal assets as a partner will be protected from legal action. Basically, the liability is limited in the sense that you will lose assets in the partnership, but not those assets outside of it (i.e., your personal assets). The partnership is the first target for any lawsuit, although a specific partner could be liable if they personally did something wrong.



Another advantage of an LLP is the ability to bring partners in and let partners out. Because a partnership agreement exists for an LLP, partners can be added or retired as outlined by the agreement. This comes in handy as the LLP can always add partners who bring existing business with them. Usually, the decision to add new partners requires approval from all the existing partners.



Overall, it is the flexibility of an LLP for a certain type of professional that makes it a superior option to many other corporate entities. The LLP itself is a flow-through entity for tax purposes, which is also an option for LLCs. With flow-through entities, the partners receive untaxed profits and must pay the taxes themselves.



Both LLCs and LLPs are usually preferable to corporations, which are impacted by double taxation issues. Double taxation occurs when the corporation must pay corporate income taxes, and then individuals must pay taxes again on their personal income from the company.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Limited Liability in Incorporated Businesses  

In the context of a private company, becoming incorporated can provide its owners with limited liability since an incorporated company is treated as a separate and independent legal entity. Limited liability is especially desirable when dealing in industries that can be subject to massive losses, such as insurance.



An LLC is a corporate structure in the United States whereby the owners are not personally liable for the company's debts or liabilities. Limited liability companies are hybrid entities that combine the characteristics of a corporation with those of a partnership or sole proprietorship.



While the limited liability feature is similar to that of a corporation, the availability of flow-through taxation to the members of an LLC is a feature of partnerships. The primary difference between a partnership and an LLC is that an LLC separates the business assets of the company from the personal assets of the owners, insulating the owners from the LLC's debts and liabilities.



As an example, consider the misfortune that befell numerous Lloyd's of London Names, who are private individuals that agree to take on unlimited liabilities related to insurance risk in return for pocketing profits from insurance premiums. In the late 1990s, hundreds of these investors had to declare bankruptcy in the face of catastrophic losses incurred on claims related to asbestosis.



Contrast this with the losses incurred by shareholders in some of the biggest public companies that went bankrupt, such as Enron and Lehman Brothers. Although shareholders in these companies lost all of their investments in them, they were not held liable for the hundreds of billions of dollars owed by these companies to their creditors subsequent to their bankruptcies.




What Business Structures Feature Limited Liability?
There are several company structures that feature limited liability, including a limited liability company (LLC), an S corporation, and a C corporation. Partnerships may have limited liability partners, but at least one partner must have unlimited liability.




What Is Unlimited Liability?
While limited liability separates and protects personal assets from business assets, unlimited liability means that the shareholder or partner assumes all liability for the company's success. If the company becomes insolvent, the unlimited liability partner would be responsible for repaying all debts to creditors.




Does an LLC Require More than One Owner?
No. LLCs may operate the same as a sole proprietorship with the benefit of asset protection in the event of a business catastrophe. A single person may organize as an LLC or they may have partners in the business.
What Is a Limited Liability Company (LLC)?  

A limited liability company (LLC) is a business structure in the U.S. that protects its owners from personal responsibility for its debts or liabilities. Limited liability companies are hybrid entities that combine the characteristics of a corporation with those of a partnership or sole proprietorship.



While the limited liability feature is similar to that of a corporation, the availability of flow-through taxation to the members of an LLC is a feature of a partnership rather than an LLC.





Key Takeaways

The limited liability company (LLC) is a corporate structure that protects its owners from being personally pursued for repayment of the company's debts or liabilities.Regulation of LLCs varies from state to state.Any entity or individual can be a member of an LLC with the notable exceptions of banks and insurance companies.LLCs do not pay taxes on their profits directly.Their profits and losses are passed through to members, who report them on their individual tax returns.


   Understanding a Limited Liability Company (LLC)  

Limited liability companies are permitted under state statutes, and the regulations governing them vary from state to state. LLC owners are generally called members.



Many states don't restrict ownership, meaning anyone can be a member including individuals, corporations, foreigners, foreign entities, and even other LLCs. Some entities, though, cannot form LLCs, including banks and insurance companies.



An LLC is a formal business arrangement that requires articles of organization to be filed with the state. An LLC is easier to set up than a corporation and provides more flexibility and protection for its investors.



LLCs may elect not to pay federal taxes directly. Instead, their profits and losses are reported on the personal tax returns of the owners. The LLC may choose a different classification, such as a corporation. If fraud is detected or if a company fails to meet its legal and reporting requirements, creditors may be able to go after the members.






The wages paid to members are deemed operating expenses and are deducted from the company's profits.


   Forming an LLC  

Although the requirements for LLCs vary by state, there are generally some commonalities. The very first thing owners or members must do is to choose a name.



Articles of organization can then be documented and filed with the state. These articles establish the rights, powers, duties, liabilities, and other obligations of each member of the LLC. Other information included in the documents includes the names and addresses of the LLC's members, the name of the LLC's registered agent, and the business' statement of purpose.



The articles of organization are filed, along with a fee paid directly to the state. Paperwork and additional fees must also be submitted at the federal level to obtain an employer identification number (EIN).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of LLCs  

The primary reason business owners opt to register their businesses as LLCs is to limit the personal liability of themselves and their partners or investors. Many view an LLC as a blend of a partnership, which is a straightforward business agreement between two or more owners, and a corporation, which has certain liability protections.



Although LLCs have some attractive features, they also have several disadvantages. Depending on state law, an LLC may have to be dissolved upon the death or bankruptcy of a member. A corporation can exist in perpetuity.






An LLC may not be a suitable option if the founder's ultimate objective is to launch a publicly traded company.


   LLC vs. Partnership  

The primary difference between a partnership and an LLC is that an LLC separates the business assets of the company from the personal assets of the owners, insulating the owners from the LLC's debts and liabilities.



Both LLCs and partnerships are allowed to pass through their profits, along with the responsibility for paying the taxes on them, to their owners. Their losses can be used to offset other income but only up to the amount invested. If the LLC has organized as a partnership, it must file Form 1065. (If members have elected to be treated as a corporation, Form 1120 is filed).



In an LLC, a business continuation agreement can be used to ensure the smooth transfer of interests when one of the owners leaves or dies. Without such an agreement in place, the remaining partners must dissolve the LLC and create a new one.




What Is a Limited Liability Company?
A limited liability company, commonly referred to as an “LLC”, is a type of business structure commonly used in the United States. LLCs can be seen as a hybrid structure that combines features of both a corporation and a partnership. Like a corporation, LLCs provide their owners with limited liability in the event the business fails. But like a partnership, LLCs “pass through” their profits so that they are taxed as part of the owners’ personal income.




What Are Limited Liability Companies (LLCs) Used for?
The LLC has two main advantages:It prevents its owners from being held personally responsible for the debts of the company. If the company goes bankrupt or is sued, the personal assets of its owner-investors cannot be pursued.It allows all profits to be passed directly to those owners to be taxed as personal income. That avoids "double taxation" of both the company and its individual owners.




What Are Some Examples of LLCs?
LLCs are more common than many realize. Alphabet, the parent company of Google, is an LLC, as are PepsiCo Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp., and Johnson & Johnson.There are many much smaller LLCs. There are variations that include sole proprietorship LLCs, family LLCs, and member-managed LLCs.Many physicians' groups are registered as LLCs. This helps protect the individual doctors from personal liability for medical malpractice awards.




Are Limited Liability Companies Taxed Differently Than Corporations?
Yes. In the case of a corporation, profits are first taxed at the corporate level and then taxed a second time once those profits are distributed to the individual shareholders. This “double taxation” is decried by many businesses and investors.Limited liability companies, on the other hand, allow the profits to be passed directly to the investors so that they are taxed only once, as part of the investors’ personal income.


   The Bottom Line  

Limited liability companies (LLCs) are important legal structures for forming a business. Limited liability means that the assets and debts of the business remain separate from the personal assets and debts of the company's owners. If a company goes bankrupt, creditors cannot therefore go after the owners' personal assets, just that of the business. LLCs also have several beneficial features including simplified taxation and a relatively straightforward process to establish one. This is part of the reason why LLCs are the most common type of business in the U.S.
What Is a Limited Partner?  

A limited partner invests money in exchange for shares in a partnership but has restricted voting power on company business and no day-to-day involvement in the business.



A limited partner’s liability for the firm’s debts cannot exceed the amount that they have invested in the company. Limited partners are often called silent partners.





Key Takeaways

A limited partner, also known as a silent partner, is an investor and not a day-to-day manager of the business.The limited partner’s liability cannot exceed the amount that they have invested in the business.A limited partnership (LP), by definition, has at least one general partner and one limited partner.


   Understanding Limited Partners  

A limited partnership (LP), by definition, has at least one general partner and at least one limited partner. The general partner or partners manage the business from day to day.



Although state laws vary, a limited partner doesn’t generally have the full voting power on the company business of a general partner. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers the limited partner’s income from the business to be passive income. A limited partner who participates in a partnership for more than 500 hours in a year may be viewed as a general partner.



Some states allow limited partners to vote on issues affecting the basic structure or the continued existence of the partnership. Those issues include removing general partners, terminating the partnership, amending the partnership agreement, or selling most or all of the company’s assets.






A limited partner may become personally liable only if they are proved to have assumed an active role in the business.


   General Partner vs. Limited Partner  

A general partner typically is compensated for controlling the company’s daily operations and making day-to-day decisions. As the business decision maker, the general partner can be held personally liable for any business debts.



A limited partner has purchased shares in the partnership as an investment but is not involved in its day-to-day business. Limited partners cannot incur obligations on behalf of the partnership, participate in daily operations, or manage the operation.



Because limited partners do not manage the business, they are not personally liable for the partnership’s debts. A creditor may sue for repayment of the partnership’s debt from the general partner’s personal assets.



A limited partner may become personally liable only if they are proved to have assumed an active role in the business, taking on the duties of a general partner. A limited partner’s loss from the company’s operations may not exceed the amount of the individual’s investment.






Investors in private equity funds are called limited partners.


   Tax Treatment for Limited Partners  

Limited partnerships, like general partnerships, are pass-through or flow-through entities. This means that all partners are responsible for taxes on their share of the partnership income, rather than the partnership itself.



Limited partners do not pay self-employment taxes. Because they are not active in the business, the IRS does not consider limited partners’ income as earned income. The income received is passive income. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 allows limited partners to offset reported losses from passive income.




What Is the Role of a Limited Partner?
A limited partner is an investor who does not make decisions for either a company or assets in a partnership. Limited partners are also often referred to as silent partners.




What Are the Advantages of Being a Limited Partner?
Limited partners can invest while keeping their liability limited. Liability is limited to the amount that a limited partner has invested. The limited liability of a limited partner is ideal for an investor who wants to own a stake in a business without the risk of being exposed to unlimited liability.




How Are Limited Partners Taxed?
Because limited partners are investors who do not take an active role in the business, the IRS does not consider any income they receive from the limited partnership as earned income. Instead, it is viewed as passive income, which is not subject to self-employment taxes.


   The Bottom Line  

A limited partner, often called a silent partner, is an investor. Unlike general partners in a limited partnership, limited partners don’t make business decisions. Because limited partners are not active in the business, the IRS doesn’t view income from the partnership as earned income. That means limited partners aren’t subject to self-employment taxes.
What Is a Limited Partnership (LP)?  

A limited partnership (LP)—not to be confused with a limited liability partnership (LLP)—is a partnership made up of two or more partners. The general partner oversees and runs the business while limited partners do not partake in managing the business. However, the general partner of a limited partnership has unlimited liability for the debt, and any limited partners have limited liability up to the amount of their investment. 





Key Takeaways

A limited partnership (LP) exists when two or more partners go into business together, but the limited partners are only liable up to the amount of their investment.An LP is defined as having limited partners and a general partner, which has unlimited liability.  LPs are pass-through entities that offer little to no reporting requirements. There are three types of partnerships: limited partnership, general partnership, and limited liability partnership.Most U.S. states govern the formation of limited partnerships, requiring registration with the Secretary of State. 












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Limited Partnerships (LPs)   

A limited partnership is required to have both general partners and limited partners. General partners have unlimited liability and have full management control of the business. Limited partners have little to no involvement in management, but also have liability that's limited to their investment amount in the LP.






Partnership agreements should be created to outline the specific responsibilities and rights of both general and limited partners.


   Types of Partnerships  

Generally, a partnership is a business where two or more individuals have ownership. There are three forms of partnerships: limited partnership, general partnership, and limited liability partnership. The three forms differ in various aspects, but also share similar features.



In all forms of partnerships, each partner must contribute resources such as property, money, skills, or labor to share in the business' profits and losses. At least one partner takes part in making decisions regarding the business' day-to-day affairs.


  Limited Partnership (LP)  

A limited partnership is usually a type of investment partnership, often used as investment vehicles for investing in such assets as real estate. LPs differ from other partnerships in that partners can have limited liability, meaning they are not liable for business debts that exceed their initial investment.



General partners are responsible for the daily management of the limited partnership and are liable for the company's financial obligations, including debts and litigation. Other contributors, known as limited (or silent) partners, provide capital but cannot make managerial decisions and are not responsible for any debts beyond their initial investment. 






Limited partners can become personally liable if they take a more active role in the LP.


  General Partnership (GP)  

A general partnership is a partnership when all partners share in the profits, managerial responsibilities, and liability for debts equally. If the partners plan to share profits or losses unequally, they should document this in a legal partnership agreement to avoid future disputes.



A joint venture is often a type of general partnership that remains valid until the completion of a project or a certain period passes. All partners have an equal right to control the business and share in any profits or losses. They also have a fiduciary responsibility to act in the best interests of other members as well as the venture.


  Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)   

A limited liability partnership (LLP) is a type of partnership where all partners have limited liability. All partners can also partake in management activities. This is unlike a limited partnership, where at least one general partner must have unlimited liability and limited partners cannot be part of management. 



LLPs are often used for structuring professional services companies, such as law and accounting firms. However, LLP partners are not responsible for the misconduct or negligence of other partners. 


   How to Form a Limited Partnership  

Almost all U.S. states govern the formation of limited partnerships under the Uniform Limited Partnership Act, which was originally introduced in 1916 and has since been amended multiple times. The majority of the United States—49 states and the District of Columbia—have adopted these provisions with Louisiana as the sole exception.



To form a limited partnership, partners must register the venture in the applicable state, typically through the office of the local Secretary of State. It is important to obtain all relevant business permits and licenses, which vary based on locality, state, or industry. The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) lists all local, state, and federal permits and licenses necessary to start a business.


  Partnership Agreement  

In addition to external filings, the partners of the limited partnership must draft a partnership agreement. This document is an internal document that defines how the business will be operated. This agreement outlines the rights, responsibilities, and expectations of each partner. This document is not filed with an state or government entity, and the document may be referred to as the operating agreement.



The partnership agreement should identify two key financial aspects of the company. First, the agreement should identify how profits and losses will be shared. This includes how profits will be distributed to partners. Second, the agreement should identify the process and expectations for when a partner wants to sell their stake in the partnership. This may include a notice period or expectations around the first right of purchase from other partners.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Limited Partnership  

The key advantage to an LP, at least for limited partners, is that their personal liability is limited. They are only responsible for the amount invested in the LP. These entities can be used by GPs when looking to raise capital for investment. Many hedge funds and real estate investment partnerships are set up as LPs. 



Limited partners also don't have to pay self-employment taxes as they are not active members of the business. LPs are pass-through entities, meaning the entity files a Form 1065, and then partners receive Schedule K-1s that they use to include their portion of the income or loss on their own personal tax returns.



On the downside, LPs require that the general partner have unlimited liability. They are responsible for 100% of management control but also are on the hook for any debts or mishandling of business dealings. As well, limited partners are only allowed limited involvement in operations. If their role is deemed non-passive, they lose personal liability protection. 





Pros

Personal liability protection for limited partners
Pass-through entity for taxation (i.e. only taxed once unlike C-corp)
Ease of creation and reporting (e.g. no required annual meetings)
Less formal structure
No self-employment taxes for limited partners



Cons

GPs have unlimited personal liability (although they also have management control of the LP)
Limited partners limited in management participation
Ownership can be harder to transfer than other entities, such as an LLC
Not as flexible for changing management roles





   LP vs. LLC  

Limited liability companies (LLCs) and limited partnerships share several similarities. Both entities have a certain degree of freedom in how they define the role of the entity's members and the entity's structure. This includes having control over voting, financial terms, or fiduciary responsibilities of each member.



Both types of entities also incur pass-through tax treatment. This means each investor is subject to reporting their share of the entity's profit on their personal tax return. Both LPs and LLCs are not subject to federal income tax.



There are some differences in each legal entity starting with the corporate structure. Limited partnerships contain general partners and limited partners, while a limited liability company may have as many members as it wants. In general, all members of an LLC usually have the right to manage the business, while limited partners of an LP can not be active participants.



Another key difference is the aspect of liability. General partners of an LP have unlimited personal liability, meaning they may be held liable for any debts and obligations of the company. Limited partners are often not liable for partnership obligations. Alternatively, LLCs often provide corporation-like protection for members in which members are often not held directly liable for the company's debts.



Last, LLCs have a bit more flexibility regarding how they are taxed. LLCs can elect to be taxed as a C Corporation, an S Corporation, or a disregarded entity. Both an LLC and LP's default tax status is to be taxed as a partnership.





LP

Composed of general partners and limited partners
Limited partners can not be active in the daily management of the company
General partners often have personal liability for the company
LPs are taxed as a partnership



LLC

Composed of owners often referred to as members
Unless otherwise stated, all members have the right to participate in management
Members often have no liability for the company
LLCs may be taxed as a partnership, C-Corp, S-Corp, or disregarded entity.





   Limited Partnership and Taxes  

Limited partnerships are treated fairly similarly as general partnerships in regards to taxes. Limited partners are treated as a pass-through entity and files Form 1065 as an information return. The limited partnership also provides a Schedule K-1 to each partner to report each partner's share of business income and losses on the partner's individual tax return.



If the limited partnership were to incur a loss, each partner could deduct this loss on their personal returns up to their investment in the company. Partners can also carry losses to future years if their loss is greater than their investment-to-date amount.



Income or losses from a limited partnership are called passive gains or losses. This is because each partner is not actively participating in the business. This is especially important for tax reasons as passive activity can only be offset by other passive income; passive losses can only be used to offset passive gains. This also plays a key part in self-employment taxes. Limited partners do not pay self employment tax on most payments as they are not active participants in the business; meanwhile, general partners usually have to pay self-employment taxes.




What Is a Limited Partnership in Business?
Businesses that form a limited partnership generally do so to own or operate a set of specific assets, such as a real estate investment partnership or LP for managing oil pipelines. One party (the general partner) has control over the assets and management responsibilities, but also are personally liable. The other party (limited partners) are generally investors whose personal liability is limited to their investment.




What Is the Difference Between an LLC and a Limited Partnership?
Both LLCs and LPs offer flexibility in structuring responsibilities, profit-split, and taxes. An LP allows certain investors (limited partners) to invest without having a management role or any personal liability, while the general partners carry all the liability. With an LLC, the owners can shield themselves from personal liability, but all generally have management roles. An LP must have at least one limited partner.LLCs also have greater flexibility for tax reporting. Often, the general partner of an LP will be structured as an LLC to help provide personal liability protection, as LLC managers are typically not held personally responsible for the businesses’ liabilities. 




What Is the Difference Between an LP and LLP?
An LP and LLP have a similar structure. However, LPs have general partners and limited partners, while LLPs have no general partners. All partners in an LLP have limited liability.




What Is Limited Partnership Taxation?
Limited partnerships are taxed as pass-through entities, meaning each partner receives a Schedule K-1 which they include on their personal tax return.




What Are the Benefits of a Limited Partnership?
Limited partnerships are ideal entities for raising capital for a particular investment or set of assets. They allow limited partners to invest while keeping their liability limited.


   The Bottom Line  

Limited partnerships are generally used by hedge funds and investment partnerships as they offer the ability to raise capital without giving up control. Limited partners invest in an LP and have little to no control over the management of the entity, but their liability is limited to their personal investment. Meanwhile, general partners manage and run the LP, but their liability is unlimited.
What Is a Limited Partnership Unit (LPU)?  

A limited partnership unit, or LPU, is an ownership unit in a publicly traded limited partnership, or master limited partnership (MLP). This trust gives the unit holder a stake in the income generated by the partnership company. A limited partnership unit is also referred to as a master limited partnership unit or a limited partner unit.


   How a Limited Partnership Unit Works  

A limited partnership unit is a share certificate representing one unit of ownership in a master limited partnership (MLP). Thus, an MLP is nothing more than a limited partnership that is publicly traded on an exchange. An MLP often distributes all available cash (such as dividends) from operations to unit holders after the deduction of maintenance capital.



Partnership units are beneficial to investors because the MLP allows the company's cash distributions to circumvent the double taxation that would normally be imposed, which generally means greater distributions for partnership unitholders. In an MLP, the cash distributions of the company are taxed only at the unit holder level and not at a corporate level.






A limited partnership is a flow-through entity and is thus not a legal taxpaying entity.



An investor that purchases an interest in a limited partnership shares the profits or losses of the business pro-rata with other partners and owners. For tax purposes, an owner or investor includes a percentage of the business’ gains or losses when calculating his or her own taxable income. Partners are then required to report this income or loss, regardless of actual distributions from the partnership.


   Special Considerations: Liability  

The liability with respect to the partnership’s debts is limited as each partner or investor can only lose up to his or her original investment. Limited partnerships usually must mail an IRS Schedule K-1 to each of their unit holders every year.



Although partnerships make quarterly cash distributions to LP unitholders, these distributions are not guaranteed. Still, every unitholder is responsible for the taxes on his or her proportionate share of income, even if the partnership does not make a distribution.


   Benefits of Limited Partnership Units  

In addition to the avoidance of double taxation, another benefit of investing in LP units is that because the units are publicly traded, there is much more liquidity for investors compared to a traditional partnership. In most cases, these limited partnership unit investments are eligible as IRA and RRSP investments. LP units are concentrated in the real estate sector or in the commodities and natural resource sectors such as oil, natural gas, timber, and petroleum.



The at-risk rules apply to limited partners. These are special rules that prevent investors from writing off more than the amount they invested in limited partnership units. In effect, the at-risk rules limit the amount of loss the limited partners can claim to the amount of actual at-risk capital.



If an investor’s adjusted cost base (ACB)—the amount paid for the units—of their LP units is negative, they are deemed to have made a capital gain and their adjusted cost base will be reset to zero. If their ACB in a future year is positive, they may choose to recognize a capital loss on the positive ACB and apply this loss against the previous capital gain to recover tax paid on that amount.





Key Takeaways

Limited partnership units, or LPUs, are ownership units in a publicly traded limited partnership, or master limited partnership (MLP).LPUs are not subject to double taxation and are considered by the IRS to be a flow-through entity.Liability for LPUs is capped at the amount of the original investors' capital investment.
What Is Limited Power of Attorney?  

Limited Power of Attorney (LPOA) is an authorization that permits a portfolio manager to perform specific functions on behalf of the account owner. In general, the LPOA allows the manager to execute an agreed-upon investment strategy and take care of routine related business without contacting the account holder.



Before signing an LPOA, the client should be aware of the specific functions they have delegated to the portfolio manager, as the client remains liable for the decisions.


   Understanding Limited Power of Attorney  

LPOA authorizations have become more common in recent years as more investors choose boutique money management firms and registered investment advisors (RIAs) over traditional brokerage firms.





Key Takeaways

A limited power of attorney allows a portfolio manager to make routine decisions without contacting the account holder.The portfolio manager is never permitted to withdraw money from the account or change the beneficiaries.An account holder may specify other exceptions to the limited power of attorney.



A limited power of attorney, as opposed to a general power of attorney, restricts the authority of the designated individual to a specific sphere. In this case, the portfolio manager is empowered to execute an investment strategy as agreed upon with the account holder.



An LPOA gives the portfolio manager the authority to buy and sell assets, pay fees, and handle various necessary forms.



Certain critical account functions still can be made only by the account holder, including cash withdrawals and a change of beneficiary. A client can clearly state which other powers they may wish to retain at the time the account is set up.


  Limited Power of Attorney Types  

There are a couple of variations on the limited power of attorney that may be used in special circumstances:



Springing Powers: An LPOA that has springing powers becomes active only if it is triggered by a specific event, usually the death or incapacitation of the account owner. It is typically used with a will or a family living trust.Durable and Non-Durable: Durable LPOAs give the portfolio manager continuing authority to perform certain functions even if the client dies or becomes incapacitated. The majority of LPOAs are non-durable, which means they become void when the client dies or becomes disabled.


  Limited Power of Attorney Forms  

Clients typically complete a power of attorney (POA) form when they open an account with a portfolio manager. Most forms give clients the option to choose between an LPOA or a full power of attorney.






A limited power of attorney restricts the authorization to a specific sphere, such as investment management.



The client must designate an attorney in fact, who is usually the portfolio manager. Other portfolio managers who may make investment decisions on behalf of the client must also have their details provided on the form. Once completed, both the client and the attorney or attorneys in fact must sign the form.



A client who is uncertain or uncomfortable about what functions they are authorizing may want to get an attorney to review the POA form before signing it.
What Is a Lindahl Equilibrium?  

Lindahl equilibrium is a state of equilibrium in a quasi-market for the pure public good. As in competitive market equilibrium, the supply and demand for the good are balanced, in addition to the cost and revenue to produce the good. Lindahl equilibrium depends on the possibility of implementing an effective Lindahl tax, first proposed by the Swedish economist Erik Lindahl.





Key Takeaways

Lindahl equilibrium is a theoretical state of an economy where the optimal quantity of public goods is produced and the cost of public goods is fairly shared among everyone.Achieving Lindahl equilibrium requires the implementation of a Lindahl tax, which charges each individual an amount proportionate to the benefit they receive.Lindahl equilibrium is a theoretical construct because various theoretical and practical issues prevent an effective Lindahl tax from ever actually being implemented.


   Understanding a Lindahl Equilibrium  

At Lindahl equilibrium, three conditions must be met:



Every consumer demands the same amount of the public good and thus agrees on the amount that should be produced.
Consumers each pay a price (known as a Lindahl tax) according to the marginal benefit they receive.
The total revenue from the tax covers the full cost of providing the public good.



A Lindahl tax is a type of taxation proposed by Swedish economist Erik Lindahl in 1919, in which individuals pay for the provision of a public good according to the marginal benefit they receive to determine the efficient level of provision for each public good.



In the equilibrium state, all individuals consume the same quantity of public goods but will face different prices under the Lindahl tax because some people may value a particular good more than others.



Under this paradigm, each individual’s relative share of the total tax revenue is proportional to the level of personal utility they enjoy from a public good. In other words, the Lindahl tax represents an individual’s share of a given economy’s collective tax burden. The actual amount of the tax paid by each individual is this proportion times the total cost of the good.



The equilibrium quantity will be the amount that equates the marginal cost of the good with the sum of the marginal benefits to consumers (in monetary terms). The Lindahl price for each individual is the resulting amount paid by an individual for their share of public goods. Lindahl prices can thus be viewed as individual shares of the collective tax burden of an economy, and the sum of Lindahl prices equals the cost of supplying public goods—such as national defense and other common programs and services—that collectively benefit a society.






   Problems with the Lindahl Tax  

The Lindahl equilibrium has more of a philosophical application than a practical use due to various issues that restrict the Lindahl equilibrium's real-world function. Due to the infeasibility of actually implementing a Lindahl tax to achieve Lindahl equilibrium, other methods such as surveys or majority voting are normally used to decide the provision and financing of public goods. 



In order to implement a Lindahl tax, the taxing authority must know the exact shape of every individual consumer's demand curve for each public good. However, without a market for the good, there is no way for consumers to communicate what these demand curves look like. Because it's not possible to evaluate how much each person values a certain good, the marginal benefit cannot be aggregated across all individuals. 



Even if consumers could communicate their preferences and the taxing authority could aggregate them, consumers might not even be aware of their own preferences regarding a given public good, or how much they value it depending on whether, how much, or how often any given consumer actually consumes the public good. 



Even if consumer preferences are known, communicated, and aggregated, they may not be stable at the individual level or in the aggregate. Estimates of consumer demand curves might need to be continuously updated in order to adjust both the total quantity of each public good produced and the rate charged to every single individual. 



Problems of the equity of a Lindahl tax have also been raised. The tax charges each individual an amount equal to the benefit they receive from the good. For certain public goods, such as social safety nets, this obviously makes no sense. For example, it would require charging welfare beneficiaries a tax at least equal to the transfer payments they receive, which would seem to defeat the entire purpose of the program. 



It might also be the case that some consumers receive negative utility from a given public good, and providing the good actually causes them harm. For example, a devout pacifist who deeply opposes the very existence of an armed military for national defense. A Lindahl tax for this individual would necessarily be negative. This would lead to a lower equilibrium quantity (since total demand is lower) and a higher Lindahl price for everyone else in society (since the total revenue required would include the price of "buying off" the pacifist). 



In the extreme, this could even lead to a case where a small minority group or even a single individual with strongly contrary preferences could completely prevent the production of a given public good regardless of how much it would benefit the rest of society—if the price to buy them off is higher than the amount that others are willing to pay. In this case, it might make more sense to simply ignore the interests of the contrarian minority, to divide the political body along the lines of preferences for public goods, or to physically remove the contrarian minority from the economy.
What Is a Line Chart?  

A line chart is a graphical representation of an asset's historical price action that connects a series of data points with a continuous line. This is the most basic type of chart used in finance, and it typically only depicts a security's closing prices over time. Line charts can be used for any timeframe, but they most often use day-to-day price changes.





Key Takeaways

A line chart displays information as a series of data points connected by straight line segments.A line chart is a way of visually representing an asset's price history using a single, continuous line.Line charts usually only plot the closing prices, thus reducing noise from less critical times in the trading day, such as the open, high, and low prices.Line charts are simplistic and may not fully capture patterns or trends.


   Understanding Line Charts  

A line chart provides traders with a visualization of where the price of a security has traveled over a given period. Because line charts usually only use closing prices, they reduce noise from less critical times in the trading day, such as the open, high, and low prices. Line charts are popular with investors and traders because closing prices are a common snapshot of a security's activity.















Example of a Line Chart.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Other popular styles of charts include bar charts, candlestick charts, and point and figure charts. Traders can use line charts alongside other charts to help see a more full technical picture. 


   Pros and Cons of Using Line Charts  

Traders can be overwhelmed with too much information when analyzing a security chart. The trading term “paralysis by analysis” is used to describe this phenomenon. Using charts that show a plethora of price information and indicators can give multiple signals that lead to confusion and complicate trading decisions.



However, using a line chart helps traders identify key support and resistance levels, trends, and recognizable chart patterns. For example, the line chart below makes it easy to locate major support and resistance levels between $2.10 and $2.70 before the price drops below support.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Line charts are also ideal for beginner traders to use due to their simplicity. They help to teach basic chart reading skills before advanced techniques, such as reading Japanese candlestick patterns or learning point and figure charts. Volume and moving averages can easily be applied to a line chart.



However, line charts may not provide enough price information for some traders to monitor their trading strategies. Some strategies require prices derived from the open, high, and low.



Also, traders who use more information other than the close do not have enough information to test their trading strategy with merely a simple line chart. Candlestick charts, which contain an asset's daily open, close, high, and low prices all in the same graph may prove more useful.






Line charts can be constructed manually, or by using software, such as Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets, which greatly improves the speed and accuracy of the end product.




What Is a Line Chart Used for?
A line chart is a type of chart used to show information that changes over time. Line charts are created by plotting a series of several points and connecting them with a straight line. Line charts are used to track changes over short and long periods. 




What Is an Example of a Line Chart?
A line chart is used to show the change in information over time. The horizontal axis is usually a time scale; for example, minutes, hours, days, months, or years. For example, you could create a line chart that shows the daily earnings of a store for five days. The horizontal axis would include the days of the week, while the vertical axis would have the daily earnings.




What Are the Types of Line Charts?
In statistics, there are three main types of line charts: a simple line chart, a multiple line chart, and a compound line chart. A simple line chart is plotted with only a single line. A simple line chart shows the relationship between two different variables; for example, the day of the week and the closing price of a security. A multiple line chart is a line chart that is plotted with two or more lines. It is often referred to as a "multi-series line chart" and is used to depict two or more variables that change over the same period. A compound line chart is used when information can be subdivided into different types. A compound line chart expands upon the simple line chart; it shows the total data set, plus the different types of data that make up the set. 




What Is a Stacked Line Chart?
A stacked line chart is used to compare trends over time. It is constructed with two or more sets of data; the different data sets are typically given corresponding colored lines. In a stacked line chart, the data values are added together. 




How Do I Make a Line Chart in Excel?
You can use a line chart in Excel to display trends over time. In Excel, line charts are appropriate if you have text labels, dates, or a few numeric labels on the horizontal axis (x-axis).Here are the steps to create a line graph in Excel. (If you are using numeric labels, empty cell A1 before you create the line chart):After inputting in your values, select the range (whatever range encompassing those values). For example, A1:D7.On the Insert tab, in the Charts group, click the Line symbol ("Insert line chart")Click "Line with Markers"
What Is a Line Graph?  

A line graph—also known as a line plot or a line chart—is a graph that uses lines to connect individual data points. A line graph displays quantitative values over a specified time interval. In finance, line graphs are commonly used to depict the historical price action of an asset or security.



Line graphs can be compared with other visualizations of data including bar charts, pie charts, and (in trading) candlestick charts, among others.





Key Takeaways

A line graph connects individual data points that, typically, display quantitative values over a specified time interval.Line graphs consist of two axes: x-axis (horizontal) and y-axis (vertical), graphically denoted as (x,y).In investing, in the field of technical analysis, line graphs are quite informative in allowing the user to visualize trends.While line graphs are used across many different fields for different purposes, their most common function is to create a graphical depiction of changes in values over time.In finance, line graphs are used to create visual representations of values over time, including changes in the prices of securities.


   Understanding Line Graphs  

Line graphs use data point "markers," which are connected by straight lines. These data points, connected by straight lines, aid in visualization. While line graphs are used across many different fields for different purposes, they are especially helpful when it is necessary to create a graphical depiction of changes in values over time.



Line graphs are often used in finance to create visual representations of values over time, including changes in the prices of securities, company revenue sheets, and histories of major stock indexes. They are also useful for comparing different securities. In investing, specifically with respect to the field of technical analysis, line graphs are used by investors to visualize trends, which can greatly aid them in their analyses.



There are some limitations to line graphs. For example, line graphs often lose clarity when there are too many data points. It is also easy to manipulate them visually in order to achieve certain effects. For example, the apparent degree of change can be visually manipulated by adjusting the range of data points on the axes.






Line graphs can be constructed manually or by using software such as Microsoft Excel. The latter greatly improves the speed and accuracy of the end product.


   Constructing a Line Graph  

Line graphs consist of two axes: x-axis (horizontal) and y-axis (vertical). Each axis represents a different data type, and the points at which they intersect is (0,0). The x-axis is the independent axis because its values are not dependent on anything measured. The y-axis is the dependent axis because its values depend on the x-axis's values. 



Each axis should be labeled according to the data measured along that axis. Then, each axis should be divided in appropriate increments (e.g., day one, day two, etc.). For example, if measuring the changes in a stock's prices for the previous two weeks, the x-axis would represent the time measured (trading days within the period), and the y-axis would represent stock prices. 



When using line graphs to track the price of a stock, the data point most commonly used is the closing price of the stock. 



For example, assume that on day one of trading, a given stock's price was $30, resulting in a data point at (1, $30). On day two of trading, the stock's price was $35, resulting in a data point at (2, $35).



Each data point is plotted and connected by a line that visually shows the changes in the values over time. If the value of the stock increased daily, the line would slope upward and to the right. Conversely, if the price of the stock was steadily decreasing, then the line would slope downward and to the right.


   Types of Line Graphs  

There are three main types of line graphs. Although each type is fundamentally rooted in the same principles, each has its own unique situation where it is best to implement and use.


  Simple Line Graph  

A simple line graph is the most basic type of line graph. In this graph, only one dependent variable is tracked, so there is only a single line connecting all data points on the graph. All points on the graph relate to the same item, and the only purpose of the graph is to track the changes of that variable over time. This graph cannot be used to compare the variable to another variable because only variable is charted.



In the example below, the x-axis is time and the y-axis is the year-over-year change in price for all consumer goods in the United States. This graph of the Consumer Price Index shows the annual rate of inflation and, since it is analyzing just one set of data (all items), there is only one line.















Consumer Price Index, All Items.
Bureau of Labor Statistics


  Multiple Line Graph  

In a multiple line graph, more than one dependent variable is charted on the graph and compared over a single independent variable (often time). Different dependent variables are often given different colored lines to distinguish between each data set. Each line relates to only the points in its given data set; lines do not cross between dependent variables.



For example, the line graph below shows the Consumer Price Index again. However, this graph shows the change in price for three different categories: medical care (red), commodities (green), and shelter (blue). In this graph, we can see the growth in price for commodities was higher than the other two categories in July 2022. However, shelter or medical expenses were typically the groups that experienced higher inflation over the past decade.















Consumer Price Index, Select Categories.
Bureau of Labor Statistics


  Compound Line Graph  

A compound line graph uses multiple variables similar to a multiple line graph. However, the variables are often stacked on top of each other to show the total quantity across all variables. This not only informs users of the relationship between each of the variables, but it informs of how the total changes as well.



In the example below from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), there are five dependent variables that range from abnormally dry land areas to exceptional drought areas. The most extreme drought data was graphed first, and any empty space under that line graph was shaded dark red. Then, subsequent sets of data were plotted after, with the empty area below each of those lines shaded their respective colors. In total, this shows the relationship between drought descriptions as well as the total percent of U.S. land area in these categories by year.















EPA Drought Measurements, 2000-2015.
EPA


   Parts of a Line Graph  

Line graphs may vary depending optional features or formatting. The highest-quality, easiest to understand line graphs have the following characteristics:


  Title  

Line graphs may have a title above the graph to succinctly explain what the graph is depicting. Unless you provide a user with written context, the user will often rely on the title to better understand what data is being pulled in. The title may specifically call out a timeframe or limits to the data (i.e. an appropriate title for the compound line graph could be 'Level of U.S. Dry Land By Year, 2000-2015').


  Legend  

The legend explains what each dependent variable is and how to distinguish different sets of data. In the example above, each dependent variable is marked with its own color. The box that explains what each color means is the legend.


  Data  

Each item of data on a line graph is a reference to a different source that ties the dependent variable to an independent variable. This is the information on your graph; it is the item that creates the dots that get connected to form the lines on your chart. In some examples as seen above, there may be multiple sets of data combined into a single graph. To ensure data is protected and accurate, companies may have specific data integrity analyst or similar positions to monitor database activity.


  X-Axis  

The x-axis is the set of information that runs along the horizontal, flat portion at the bottom of the line graph. In most line graphs, the x-axis will be related to time, whether it is the different months in a year or the number of weeks that have passed since a product launch.


  Y-Axis  

The y-axis is the set of information that runs along the vertical, left-side of the graph. Some iterations of line graphs have this set of information on the right. In any case, these numbers count the items being measured. The graph may start at zero, though there are instances where it makes more sense to start at a higher number.


  Line  

Last, we have the line. The line connects all data points within a single dependent variable. This line's movement shows the increase and decrease of information across time. It can also easily be compared against other lines as long as all data sets are being measured over similar periods of time. Though overly simplified, this line can communicate to management what actions should be taken to improve operations or strategic planning.






Want to display multiple sets of data but one set of information is more suitable as a bar chart? Programs such as Excel and Google Sheets can produce combined charts where one dependent variable is shown as a bar graph and another dependent variable is shown as an overlying line graph.


   Creating a Line Graph in Excel  

You can use a line graph in Excel to display trends over time. In Excel, line graphs are appropriate if you have text labels, dates, or a few numeric labels on the horizontal axis (x-axis). Here are the steps to create a line graph in Excel. (If you are using numeric labels, empty cell A1 before you create the line graph):



Enter your desired column headers in Row 1. These columns will describe the different sets of data (i.e. in the example below, the headers differentiate data by animal).Enter your x-axis value in Column A. In the example below, the data is broken up by year, so the years 2017 through 2022 are listed in the first column.Enter your data. For each cell that corresponds to a header and year, enter a relevant figure. If no data exists, enter '0'.After inputting in your values, select the range (whatever range encompassing those values). If you want your graph to include headers and labels, select the first row and first column For example, selecting A1:D7, the x-axis can be labeled as 'Years' and the y-axis can be labeled as 'Count of Animals'.On the Insert tab, in the Charts group, click the Line symbol ("Insert Line Chart").Click "Line with Markers". This will create a line graph similar to the one below where each data point is marked with a larger point and these points are connected with a thinner line. Many of these formatting items can be adjusted.















Excel Line Graph Example.


   Uses of a Line Graph  

Different data visualization tools are best used for specific purposes, and a line graph is no exception. Depending on the underlying data, a line graph is best for:



Tracking changes over time. A line graph is usually formatted with the time periods on the x-axis and the quantity of occurrence on y-axis. Each period was a year, but line charges can be broken into days, weeks, months, or other quantities of time (i.e. days since a new CEO was hired).
Tracking smaller changes. The range displayed on a graph can be changed to better zoom into data that may not vary too widely. Compared to other types of charts, a line graph can be formatted to have very small increments on the y-axis that make is more clear how tiny changes across time have occurred.
Comparing changes across more than one group. In the example above, it is very easy to compare the quantity of three different types of costs in a single visual. As each line is represented by a different color, multiple types or groups of data can be tracked at the same time and compared against each other seamlessly.
Continuous sets of data. Because a line graph relies on a single strain of unbroken data, at least one variable of a line graph should be continuous. In most cases, this variable is time. A non-continuous data set (i.e. the number of animals at the 10 largest zoos in the world) would not be appropriate as there is no reason to link each data point with a line; a bar chart would be more appropriate.




What Is a Line Graph Used for?
Line graphs are used to track changes over different periods of time. Line graphs can also be used as a tool for comparison: to compare changes over the same period of time for more than one group.




How Is a Line Graph Useful in Finance?
Line graphs are useful in finance because they are very effective at creating visual representations of trends over time. For this reason, they are often used to depict how a stock is performing over a specific period of time.




What Are the 3 Types of Line Graphs?
A line graph may be a simple line graph, multiple line graph, or compound line graph. Each type of graph has a varying degree of dependent variables and how the user wishes to display the relationship between these variables.




What Are the Parts of a Line Graph?
Line graphs can be highly customizable in terms of title, labels, markers, style of line, and other non-essential features. However, all line graphs must have an x-axis (independent variable), a y-axis (quantity of dependent variable), and input data (dependent variables). The data points for each dependent variable are marked on the graph are connected by a line.


   The Bottom Line  

When analyzing data over time, one of the best graphical depictions of data is the line graph . A line graph often uses time as its x-axis and a numerical quantity on its y-axis. When data points are marked on the chart, all data points within a single dependent variable are connected with a line, making it very useful tool for analyzing changes over time for one or more variables.
What Is the Line of Best Fit?  

Line of best fit refers to a line through a scatter plot of data points that best expresses the relationship between those points. Statisticians typically use the least squares method (sometimes known as ordinary least squares, or OLS) to arrive at the geometric equation for the line, either through manual calculations or by using software.



A straight line will result from a simple linear regression analysis of two or more independent variables. A multiple regression involving several related variables can produce a curved line in some cases.





Key Takeaways

A line of best fit is a straight line that minimizes the distance between it and some data.The line of best fit is used to express a relationship in a scatter plot of different data points.It is an output of regression analysis and can be used as a prediction tool for indicators and price movements.In finance, the line of best fit is used to identify trends or correlations in market returns between assets or over time.












investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding the Line of Best Fit  

The line of best fit estimates a straight line that minimizes the distance between itself and where observations fall in some data set. The line of best fit is used to show a trend or correlation between the dependent variable and independent variable(s). It can be depicted visually, or as a mathematical expression.



Line of best fit is one of the most important concepts in regression analysis. Regression refers to a quantitative measure of the relationship between one or more independent variables and a resulting dependent variable. Regression is of use to professionals in a wide range of fields from science and public service to financial analysis.















Line of Best Fit.


   Line of Best Fit and Regression Analysis  

To perform a regression analysis, a statistician collects a set of data points, each including a complete set of dependent and independent variables. For example, the dependent variable could be a firm’s stock price and the independent variables could be the Standard and Poor’s 500 index and the national unemployment rate, assuming that the stock is not listed in the S&P 500. The sample set could be each of these three data sets for the past 20 years.



On a chart, these data points would appear as a scatter plot, a set of points that may or may not appear to be organized along any line. If a linear pattern is apparent, it may be possible to sketch a line of best fit that minimizes the distance of those points from that line. If no organizing axis is visually apparent, regression analysis can generate a line based on the least squares method. This method builds the line which minimizes the squared distance of each point from the line of best fit.



To determine the formula for this line, the statistician enters these three results for the past 20 years into a regression software application. The software produces a linear formula that expresses the causal relationship between the S&P 500, the unemployment rate, and the stock price of the company in question. This equation is the formula for the line of best fit. It is a predictive tool, providing analysts and traders with a mechanism to project the firm’s future stock price based on those two independent variables.


   How to Calculate the Line of Best Fit  

A regression with two independent variables such as the example discussed above will produce a formula with this basic structure:



y= c + b1(x1) + b2(x2)



In this equation, y is the dependent variable, c is a constant, b1 is the first regression coefficient and x1 is the first independent variable. The second coefficient and second independent variable are b2 and x2, respectively. Drawing from the above example, the stock price would be y, the S&P 500 would be x1 and the unemployment rate would be x2. The coefficient of each independent variable represents the degree of change in y for each additional unit in that variable.



If the S&P 500 increases by one, the resulting y or share price will go up by the amount of the coefficient. The same is true for the second independent variable, the unemployment rate. In a simple regression with one independent variable, that coefficient is the slope of the line of best fit. In this example or any regression with two independent variables, the slope is a mix of the two coefficients. The constant c is the y-intercept of the line of best fit.




How Do You Find the Line of Best Fit?
There are several approaches to estimating a line of best fit to some data. The simplest, and crudest, involves visually estimating such a line on a scatter plot and drawing it in to your best ability.The more precise method involves the least squares method. This is a statistical procedure to find the best fit for a set of data points by minimizing the sum of the offsets or residuals of points from the plotted curve. This is the primary technique used in regression analysis.




Is a Line of Best Fit Always Straight?
By definition a line is always straight, so a best fit line is linear. However, a curve may also be used to describe the best fit in a set of data. Indeed, a best fit curve may be squared (x2), cubic (x3), quadratic (x4), logarithmic (ln), a square root (√), or anything else that can be described mathematically with an equation. Note, however, that simpler explanations of fit are often preferred.




How Is a Line of Best Fit Used in Finance?
For financial analysts, the method of estimating a line of best fit can help to quantify the relationship between two or more variables—such as a stock’s share price and its earnings per share (EPS). By performing this type of analysis investors often try to predict the future behavior of stock prices or other factors by extrapolating that line out in time.


   The Bottom Line  

A line of best fit estimates the one line that minimizes the distance between it and observed data. Estimating a line of best fit is a key component of regression analysis in statistics in order to infer the relationships between some dependent variable and one or more explanatory variables. In finance, the line of best fit is utilized in this way to conduct econometric studies and in certain tools used in technical analysis.
What Are Line of Business Limitations?  

Line of business limitations is a federal income tax rule applied to fringe benefits that employers provide their employees. It states that if a company is engaged in multiple lines of business and an employee receives a fringe benefit from a line of the company's business that she does not work in, she must pay taxes on that benefit.﻿﻿


   Understanding Line of Business Limitations  

As one example of line of business limitations, if an individual works for a movie theater and her company also owns an amusement park, if she received free or discounted admission to the amusement park, she would be required to pay taxes on the value of the free ticket or the discount because the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) would consider this benefit to be income. However, if she saw a movie for free at the theater where she worked, she would generally not have to pay tax on the amount of the free movie ticket because it would not be subject to line of business limitations.﻿﻿



Products or services sold primarily to employees rather than to the general public are not considered employee discounts and thus do not fall under the line of business limitations rules.﻿﻿



An employer’s line of business is defined in the Enterprise Standard Industrial Classification (ESIC) Manual, which is published by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget. An employer is considered to have more than one line of business if it offers products or services for sale to customers in more than one two-digit ESIC classification.﻿﻿


   Exemptions from Line of Business Limitations  

In some circumstances, business lines may be aggregated into one in determining the eligibility of benefits under the line of business limitations. Aggregation is required when it is unusual in the employer’s industry for one line of business to be operated separately from the others. It is also required when a substantial number of employees perform substantial services for more than one line of a company’s business, making it difficult to assign employees to specific lines of business. In these cases, an employee will not incur taxes for fringe benefits provided by their employer.﻿﻿



Reciprocal agreements among two employers that operate in the same line of business also exempt employees who receive tax-free benefits from the other employer from the line of business limitations rules. To qualify, these must be written reciprocal agreements and must not cause either employer to incur substantial additional cost. The reciprocal agreement rule only applies to benefits provided at no additional cost but does not cover qualified employee discounts.﻿﻿
What Is a Line of Credit (LOC)?  

A line of credit (LOC) is a preset borrowing limit that can be tapped into at any time. The borrower can take money out as needed until the limit is reached. As money is repaid, it can be borrowed again in the case of an open line of credit.



An LOC is an arrangement between a financial institution—usually a bank—and a customer that establishes the maximum loan amount that the customer can borrow. The borrower can access funds from the LOC at any time as long as they do not exceed the maximum amount (or credit limit) set in the agreement.





Key Takeaways

A line of credit (LOC) is a preset borrowing limit that a borrower can draw on at any time that the line of credit is open.Types of credit lines include personal, business, and home equity, among others.An LOC has built-in flexibility, which is its main advantage.Potential downsides include high interest rates, penalties for late payments, and the potential to overspend.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Credit Lines  

All LOCs consist of a set amount of money that can be borrowed as needed, paid back, and borrowed again. The amount of interest, size of payments, and other rules are set by the lender. Some LOCs allow you to write checks (drafts), while others include a type of credit or debit card. A line of credit can be secured (by collateral) or unsecured, with unsecured LOCs, typically subject to higher interest rates.



The LOC has built-in flexibility, which is its main advantage. Borrowers can request a certain amount, but they do not have to use it all. Rather, they can tailor their spending from the LOC to their needs and owe interest only on the amount that they draw, not on the entire credit line. In addition, borrowers can adjust their repayment amounts as needed based on their budget or cash flow. They can repay, for example, the entire outstanding balance all at once or just make the minimum monthly payments.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Unsecured vs. Secured LOCs  

Most LOCs are unsecured loans. This means that the borrower does not promise the lender any collateral to back the LOC. One notable exception is a home equity line of credit (HELOC), which is secured by the equity in the borrower’s home. From the lender’s perspective, secured LOCs are attractive because they provide a way to recoup the advanced funds in the event of nonpayment.



For individuals or business owners, secured LOCs are attractive because they typically come with a higher maximum credit limit and significantly lower interest rates than unsecured LOCs. Unsecured LOCs are also more difficult to obtain and often require a higher credit score or credit rating. Lenders attempt to compensate for the increased risk by limiting the number of funds that can be borrowed and by charging higher interest rates. That is one reason why the annual percentage rate (APR) on credit cards is so high.



Credit cards are technically unsecured LOCs, with the credit limit—how much you can charge on the card—representing its parameters. But you do not pledge any assets when you open the card account. If you start missing payments, there’s nothing that the credit card issuer can seize in compensation.






An LOC can have a major impact on your credit score. In general, if you use more than 30% of the borrowing limit, your credit score will drop.


   Revolving vs. Non-Revolving Lines of Credit  

An LOC is often considered to be a type of revolving account, also known as an open-end credit account. This arrangement allows borrowers to spend the money, repay it, and spend it again in a virtually never-ending, revolving cycle. Revolving accounts such as LOCs and credit cards are different from installment loans such as mortgages and car loans.



With installment loans, consumers borrow a set amount of money and repay it in equal monthly installments until the loan is paid off. Once an installment loan has been paid off, consumers cannot spend the funds again unless they apply for a new loan.



Non-revolving LOCs have the same features as revolving credit (or a revolving LOC). A credit limit is established, funds can be used for a variety of purposes, interest is charged normally, and payments may be made at any time. There is one major exception: The pool of available credit does not replenish after payments are made. Once you pay off the LOC in full, the account is closed and cannot be used again.



As an example, personal LOCs are sometimes offered by banks in the form of an overdraft protection plan. A banking customer can sign up to have an overdraft plan linked to their checking account. If the customer goes over the amount available in checking, the overdraft keeps them from bouncing a check or having a purchase denied. Like any LOC, an overdraft must be paid back, with interest.


   Types of Lines of Credit  

LOCs come in a variety of forms, with each falling into either the secured or unsecured category. Beyond that, each type of LOC has its own characteristics.


  Personal Line of Credit  

This provides access to unsecured funds that can be borrowed, repaid, and borrowed again. Opening a personal LOC usually requires a credit history of no defaults, a credit score of 670 or higher, and reliable income. Having savings helps, as does collateral in the form of stocks or certificates of deposit (CDs), though collateral is not required for a personal LOC. Personal LOCs are used for emergencies, weddings and other events, overdraft protection, travel and entertainment, and to help smooth out bumps for those with irregular income.


  Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC)  

HELOCs are the most common type of secured LOC. A HELOC is secured by the market value of the home minus the amount owed, which becomes the basis for determining the size of the LOC. Typically, the credit limit is equal to 75% or 80% of the market value of the home, minus the balance owed on the mortgage.



HELOCs often come with a draw period (usually 10 years) during which the borrower can access available funds, repay them, and borrow again. After the draw period, the balance is due, or a loan is extended to pay off the balance over time. HELOCs typically have closing costs, including the cost of an appraisal on the property used as collateral.






Since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, interest paid on a HELOC is only deductible if the funds are used to “buy, build or substantially improve” the property that serves as collateral for the HELOC.


  Business Line of Credit  

Businesses use these to borrow on an as-needed basis instead of taking out a fixed loan. The financial institution extending the LOC evaluates the market value, profitability, and risk taken on by the business and extends an LOC based on that evaluation. The LOC may be unsecured or secured, depending on the size of the LOC requested and the evaluation results. As with almost all LOCs, the interest rate is variable.


  Demand Line of Credit  

This type can be either secured or unsecured but is rarely used. With a demand LOC, the lender can call the amount borrowed due at any time. Payback (until the loan is called) can be interest only or interest plus principal, depending on the terms of the LOC. The borrower can spend up to the credit limit at any time.


  Securities-Backed Line of Credit (SBLOC)  

This is a special secured-demand LOC, in which collateral is provided by the borrower’s securities. Typically, an SBLOC lets the investor borrow anywhere from 50% to 95% of the value of assets in their account. SBLOCs are non-purpose loans, meaning that the borrower may not use the money to buy or trade securities. Almost any other type of expenditure is allowed.



SBLOCs require the borrower to make monthly, interest-only payments until the loan is repaid in full or the brokerage or bank demands payment, which can happen if the value of the investor’s portfolio falls below the level of the LOC.


   Limitations of Lines of Credit  

The main advantage of an LOC is the ability to borrow only the amount needed and avoid paying interest on a large loan. That said, borrowers need to be aware of potential problems when taking out an LOC.



Unsecured LOCs have higher interest rates and credit requirements than those secured by collateral.
Interest rates for LOCs are almost always variable and vary widely from one lender to another.
LOCs do not provide the same regulatory protection as credit cards. Penalties for late payments and going over the LOC limit can be severe.
An open LOC can invite overspending, leading to an inability to make payments.
Misuse of an LOC can hurt a borrower’s credit score. Depending on the severity, the services of a top credit repair company might be worth considering.




What are common types of lines of credit (LOCs)?
The most common types of lines of credit (LOCs) are personal, business, and home equity (HELOCs). In general, personal LOCs are typically unsecured, while business LOCs can be secured or unsecured. HELOCs are secured and backed by the market value of your home.




How can I use an LOC?
You can use an LOC for many purposes. Examples include paying for a wedding, a vacation, or an unexpected financial emergency.




How does an LOC affect my credit score?
Lenders conduct a credit check when you apply for an LOC. This results in a hard inquiry on your credit report, which lowers your credit score in the short term. Your credit score will also drop if you tap into more than 30% of the borrowing limit.
What Is a Linear Relationship?  

A linear relationship (or linear association) is a statistical term used to describe a straight-line relationship between two variables. Linear relationships can be expressed either in a graphical format where the variable and the constant are connected via a straight line or in a mathematical format where the independent variable is multiplied by the slope coefficient, added by a constant, which determines the dependent variable.



A linear relationship may be contrasted with a polynomial or non-linear (curved) relationship.





Key Takeaways

A linear relationship (or linear association) is a statistical term used to describe a straight-line relationship between two variables.Linear relationships can be expressed either in a graphical format or as a mathematical equation of the form y = mx + b.Linear relationships are fairly common in daily life.


   The Linear Equation Is:  

Mathematically, a linear relationship is one that satisfies the equation:



﻿















y


=


m


x


+


b
















where:
















m


=


slope
















b


=


y-intercept








\begin{aligned} &y = mx + b \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &m=\text{slope}\\ &b=\text{y-intercept}\\ \end{aligned}


​y=mx+bwhere:m=slopeb=y-intercept​﻿



In this equation, “x” and “y” are two variables which are related by the parameters “m” and “b”. Graphically, y = mx + b plots in the x-y plane as a line with slope “m” and y-intercept “b.” The y-intercept “b” is simply the value of “y” when x=0. The slope “m” is calculated from any two individual points (x1, y1) and (x2, y2) as:



﻿




m


=




(



y


2



−



y


1



)




(



x


2



−



x


1



)





m = \frac{(y_2 - y_1)}{(x_2 - x_1)}


m=(x2​−x1​)(y2​−y1​)​﻿


   What Does a Linear Relationship Tell You?  

There are three sets of necessary criteria an equation has to meet in order to qualify as a linear one: an equation expressing a linear relationship can't consist of more than two variables, all of the variables in an equation must be to the first power, and the equation must graph as a straight line.



A commonly used linear relationship is a correlation, which describes how close to linear fashion one variable changes as related to changes in another variable.



In econometrics, linear regression is an often-used method of generating linear relationships to explain various phenomena. It is commonly used in extrapolating events from the past to make forecasts for the future. Not all relationships are linear, however. Some data describe relationships that are curved (such as polynomial relationships) while still other data cannot be parameterized.


   Linear Functions  

Mathematically similar to a linear relationship is the concept of a linear function. In one variable, a linear function can be written as follows:



﻿















f


(


x


)


=


m


x


+


b
















where:
















m


=


slope
















b


=


y-intercept








\begin{aligned} &f(x) = mx + b \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &m=\text{slope}\\ &b=\text{y-intercept}\\ \end{aligned}


​f(x)=mx+bwhere:m=slopeb=y-intercept​﻿



This is identical to the given formula for a linear relationship except that the symbol f(x) is used in place of y. This substitution is made to highlight the meaning that x is mapped to f(x), whereas the use of y simply indicates that x and y are two quantities, related by A and B. 



In the study of linear algebra, the properties of linear functions are extensively studied and made rigorous. Given a scalar C and two vectors A and B from RN, the most general definition of a linear function states that: ﻿




c


×


f


(


A


+


B


)


=


c


×


f


(


A


)


+


c


×


f


(


B


)



c \times f(A +B) = c \times f(A) + c \times f(B)


c×f(A+B)=c×f(A)+c×f(B)﻿


   Examples of Linear Relationships  
  Example 1  

Linear relationships are pretty common in daily life. Let's take the concept of speed for instance. The formula we use to calculate speed is as follows: the rate of speed is the distance traveled over time. If someone in a white 2007 Chrysler Town and Country minivan is traveling between Sacramento and Marysville in California, a 41.3 mile stretch on Highway 99, and the complete the journey ends up taking 40 minutes, she will have been traveling just below 60 mph.﻿﻿



While there are more than two variables in this equation, it's still a linear equation because one of the variables will always be a constant (distance). 


  Example 2  

A linear relationship can also be found in the equation distance = rate x time. Because distance is a positive number (in most cases), this linear relationship would be expressed on the top right quadrant of a graph with an X and Y-axis.



If a bicycle made for two was traveling at a rate of 30 miles per hour for 20 hours, the rider will end up traveling 600 miles. Represented graphically with the distance on the Y-axis and time on the X-axis, a line tracking the distance over those 20 hours would travel straight out from the convergence of the X and Y-axis.


  Example 3  

In order to convert Celsius to Fahrenheit, or Fahrenheit to Celsius, you would use the equations below. These equations express a linear relationship on a graph:



﻿




°


C


=




5




9




(


°


F


−


3


2


)



\degree C = \frac{5}{9}(\degree F - 32)


°C=95​(°F−32)﻿



﻿




°


F


=




9




5




°


C


+


3


2



\degree F = \frac{9}{5}\degree C + 32


°F=59​°C+32﻿


  Example 4  

Assume that the independent variable is the size of a house (as measured by square footage) which determines the market price of a home (the dependent variable) when it is multiplied by the slope coefficient of 207.65 and is then added to the constant term $10,500. If a home's square footage is 1,250 then the market value of the home is (1,250 x 207.65) + $10,500 = $270,062.50. Graphically, and mathematically, it appears as follows:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



In this example, as the size of the house increases, the market value of the house increases in a linear fashion.



Some linear relationships between two objects can be called a "proportional relationship." This relationship appears as



﻿















Y


=


k


×


X
















where:
















k


=


constant
















Y


,


X


=


proportional quantities








\begin{aligned} &Y = k \times X \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &k=\text{constant}\\ &Y, X=\text{proportional quantities}\\ \end{aligned}


​Y=k×Xwhere:k=constantY,X=proportional quantities​﻿



When analyzing behavioral data, there is rarely a perfect linear relationship between variables. However, trend-lines can be found in data that form a rough version of a linear relationship. For example, you could look at the daily sales of ice-cream and the daily high temperature as the two variables at play in a graph and find a crude linear relationship between the two.
What Is a Linearly Weighted Moving Average?  

A linearly weighted moving average (LWMA) is a moving average calculation that more heavily weights recent price data. The most recent price has the highest weighting, and each prior price has progressively less weight. The weights drop in a linear fashion. LWMAs are quicker to react to price changes than simple moving averages (SMA) and exponential moving averages (EMA).















TradingView.





Key Takeaways


Use a linearly weighted moving average in the same way as an SMA or EMA.
Use a LWMA to more clearly define the price trend and reversals, provide trade signals based on crossovers, and indicate areas of potential support or resistance.
Traders who want a moving average with less lag than an SMA may wish to utilize a LWMA.



   The Formula for the Linearly Weighted Moving Average (LWMA) Is:  

﻿















LWMA


=





(



P


n



∗



W


1



)



+



(



P



n


−


1




∗



W


2



)



+



(



P



n


−


2




∗



W


3



)



.


.


.




∑



W



















where:
















P = Price for the period
















n = The most recent period, n-1 is the prior period,
















and n-2 is two periods prior
















W = The assigned weight to each period, with the
















highest weight going first and then descending linearly
















based on the number of periods being used








\begin{aligned} &\text{LWMA}=\frac{\left(P_n*W_1\right)+\left(P_{n-1}*W_2\right)+\left(P_{n-2}*W_3\right)...}{\sum{W}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{P = Price for the period}\\ &\text{n = The most recent period, n-1 is the prior period,}\\ &\text{and n-2 is two periods prior}\\ &\text{W = The assigned weight to each period, with the}\\ &\text{highest weight going first and then descending linearly}\\ &\text{based on the number of periods being used}\\ \end{aligned}


​LWMA=∑W(Pn​∗W1​)+(Pn−1​∗W2​)+(Pn−2​∗W3​)...​where:P = Price for the periodn = The most recent period, n-1 is the prior period,and n-2 is two periods priorW = The assigned weight to each period, with thehighest weight going first and then descending linearlybased on the number of periods being used​﻿


   How to Calculate the Linearly Weighted Moving Average (LWMA)  

Choose a lookback period. This is how many n values will be calculated into the LWMA.Calculate the linear weights for each period. This can be accomplished in a couple of ways. The easiest is to assign n as the weight for the first value. For example, if using a 100-period lookback, then the first value is multiplied by a weight of 100, the next value is multiplied by a weight of 99. A more complex way is to choose a different weight for the most recent value, such as 30. Now each value will need to drop by 30/100 so that when n-99 (100th period) is reached the weight is one.Multiply the prices for each period by their respective weights, then get the sum total.Divide the above by the sum of all the weights.



Let’s say we are interested in calculating the linearly weighted moving average of the closing price of a stock over the last five days.



Begin by multiplying today’s price by 5, yesterday’s by 4, and the price of the day before by 3. Continue multiplying each day’s price by its position in the data series until reaching the first price in the data series, which is multiplied by 1. Add these results together, divide by the sum of the weights, and you will have the linearly weighted moving average for this period.



((P5*5)+(P4*4)+(P3*3)+(P2*2)+(P1*1)) / (5+4+3+2+1)



Let’s say that the price of this stock fluctuates as so:



Day 5: $90.90Day 4: $90.36Day 3: $90.28Day 2: $90.83Day 1: $90.91



((90.90*5)+(90.36*4)+(90.28*3)+(90.83*2)+(90.91*1)) / (5+4+3+2+1) = 90.62



The LWMA of this stock over this time period is $90.62.


   What Does the Linearly Weighted Moving Average (LWMA) Tell You?  

The linearly weighted moving average is a method of calculating the average price of an asset over a given period of time. This method weights recent data more heavily than older data, and is used to analyze market trends.



Generally, when the price is above the LWMA, and the LWMA is rising, the price is above the weighted average which helps confirm an uptrend. If the price is below the LWMA, and the LWMA is pointed down, this helps confirm a downtrend in price.



When the price crosses the LWMA that could signal a trend change. For example, if the price is above the LWMA and then drops below it, that could indicate a shift from an uptrend to a downtrend.



When assessing trends, traders should be aware of the lookback period. The lookback period is how many periods are being calculated into the LWMA. A five-period LWMA will track price very closely and is useful for tracking small trends as the line will be easily breached by even minor price oscillations. A 100-period LWMA will not track the price as closely, meaning there will often be room between the LWMA and the price. This allows for the determination of longer-term trends and reversals.



Like other types of moving averages, the LWMA may sometime be used to indicate support and resistance areas. For example, in the past, the price bounced off the LWMA on multiple occasions and then moved higher. This indicates the line is acting as support. The line may continue to act as support in the future. Failure to do so could indicate the price trend has undergone a change. It could be reversing to the downside or may be starting a period where it moves more sideways.


   What is the Difference Between a Linearly Weighted Moving Average (LWMA) and a Double Exponential Moving Average (DEMA)?  

Both of these moving averages are designed to reduce the lag that is inherent in the SMA. The LWMA does this by applying greater weight to recent prices. The double exponential moving average (DEMA) does this through multiplying the EMA over a certain period by two, and then subtracting a smoothed EMA. Because the MAs are calculated differently they will provide different values on a price chart.


   The Limitations of Using a Linearly Weighted Moving Average (LWMA)  

All moving averages help to define trends when they are present, but provide little information when the price action is choppy or moving predominantly sideways. During such times the price will oscillate around the MA. The MA will not provide good crossover or support/resistance signals during such times.



A LWMA may not provide support or resistance. This is especially likely if it hasn't done so in the past.



Multiple false signals may also occur before a significant trend develops. A false signal is when the price crosses the LWMA but then fails to move in the direction expected, resulting in a poor trade.
What Is a Linked Savings Account?  

A linked savings account is a savings account that is connected to another account such as a checking or negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) account. Generally, linked savings accounts are held at the same bank as the customer's other accounts, making it easier to transfer funds between accounts.





Key Takeaways

Linked savings accounts are connected to another account such as a checking or negotiable order of withdrawal account, making it easier to transfer money between accounts.Linked accounts are sometimes called packaged accounts.The balances on both linked accounts are generally reported on a single consolidated statement.


   How Linked Savings Accounts Work  

When a customer opens a linked savings account, the bank or financial institution connects it by account number to a new or existing checking or NOW account in the system. Since these accounts make it easier to transfer money, they're convenient for people who want to accumulate savings.



Linked accounts are sometimes called packaged accounts. The balances on both linked accounts are generally reported on a single consolidated statement, making it easier for customers to keep track of their money. Linked savings accounts also allow customers to keep the majority of their funds in a savings account, which may earn more interest, moving money into the checking or NOW account as needed. Some packaged or linked accounts may also offer incentives such as lower fees or free checking.






The balances on your savings account and any checking, NOW or other accounts to which it's linked are generally reported on a single consolidated statement.


   Special Considerations  

Other types of accounts, such as a certificate of deposit (CD), can also be linked to your other bank accounts. Banks may encourage you to link up multiple accounts (and continue to deposit money into those accounts) by offering special benefits such as a higher interest rate.



There are instances, however, where linking accounts could lead to additional fees. For example, one benefit of linking your savings and checking account is overdraft protection. If your checking account balance goes too low, some banks will automatically transfer money from your savings account into your checking account to protect you from incurring overdraft fees. However, this service often comes with its own fee. Plus, if you trigger that sort of transfer too frequently, your savings account could fall below the minimum balance, which could cause other fees to kick in.



If you find that the ideal checking and savings accounts for your needs aren't available at the same bank, you may also be able to link accounts from different banks. This can work well if you're looking to hold your extra cash in a high-yield savings account that may not be available at the bank where you do your checking.



Look for an option to link external accounts. You'll need to provide more information to get this done, and transfers may take longer to go through. There are also sometimes limits on the number of external transfers you can make each month.


   Benefits of Linked Savings Accounts  

Banks may want to incentivize linked savings accounts so that they can hold a larger share of your business for a longer amount of time. This could mean higher rates for you, especially if you're able to maintain a higher balance. Plus, having your accounts in one place—with transfers available quickly and easily—simplifies money management.




Why might consumers want to consider a linked account?
Linked savings accounts allow customers to keep the majority of their funds in a savings account, which may earn more interest, moving money into the checking or NOW account as needed. Some packaged or linked accounts may also offer incentives such as lower fees or free checking.




What you should be careful of when opening a linked savings account?
Using them may trigger additional fees, such as overdraft protection costs. If your checking account balance goes too low, some banks will automatically transfer money from your savings account into your checking account to protect you from incurring overdraft fees. This service often comes with its own fee. Plus, if you trigger that sort of transfer too frequently, your savings account could fall below the minimum balance, which could cause other fees to kick in.
What Is the Lintner Model?  

The Lintner model is an economic formula for determining an optimal corporate dividend policy. It was proposed in 1956 by former Harvard Business School professor John Lintner and focuses on two core notions:



A company's target payout ratio
The speed at which current dividends adjust to the target



Though originally a descriptive model intended to explain how firms are observed to set dividends, the model has also been used as a prescriptive model of how firms should set dividend policy.





Key Takeaways

The Lintner model is an economic formula for determining the optimal dividend policy for a firm.The model focuses on the target dividend payout ratio and on the time it takes for increased dividends to prove stable.By following the model, a company's board of directors can easily evaluate the effectiveness of its dividend policy.


   Understanding the Lintner Model  

The following formula describes a mature corporation’s dividend payout:
















D


t



=


k


+


P


A


C


(


T



D


t



−



D



t


−


1




)


+



e


t

















where:
















D


=


Dividend

















Dividend


t



 is the dividend at time


















t



, the change from the previous

















dividend at period 


(


t


−


1


)
















PAC


=


PAC


<


1


 is a partial
















adjustment coefficient
















T


D


=


Target Dividend
















k


=


A constant

















e


t



=


The error term







\begin{aligned}&D_t=k+PAC(TD_t-D_{t-1})+e_t\\&\textbf{where:}\\&D=\text{Dividend}\\&\text{Dividend}_t \text{ is the dividend at time}\\&\text{$t$, the change from the previous}\\&\text{dividend at period }(t-1)\\&\text{PAC}=\text{PAC}<1\text{ is a partial}\\&\text{adjustment coefficient}\\&TD=\text{Target Dividend}\\&k=\text{A constant}\\&e_t=\text{The error term}\end{aligned}


​Dt​=k+PAC(TDt​−Dt−1​)+et​where:D=DividendDividendt​ is the dividend at timet, the change from the previousdividend at period (t−1)PAC=PAC<1 is a partialadjustment coefficientTD=Target Dividendk=A constantet​=The error term​
In 1956, John Lintner developed this dividend model through inductive research with 28 large, public manufacturing firms. Although Lintner passed away years ago, his model remains the accepted starting point for understanding how companies’ dividends behave over time.
Lintner observed the following important facets of corporate dividend policies:

Companies tend to set long-run target dividends-to-earnings ratios according to the amount of positive net present value (NPV) projects they have available.
Earnings increases are not always sustainable. As a result, dividend policy will not materially change until managers can see that new earnings levels are sustainable.

While all companies wish to sustain a constant dividend payout to maximize shareholder wealth, natural business fluctuations force companies to project the dividends in the long run, based on their target payout ratio.
From Lintner’s formula, a company’s board of directors thus bases its decisions about dividends on the firm’s current net income, yet adjusts them for certain systemic shocks, gradually adapting them to shifts in income over time.


   The Lintner Model and Setting Corporate Dividends  

A company’s board of directors sets the dividend policy, including the rate of payout and the date(s) of distribution. This is one case in which shareholders are not able to vote on a corporate measure—unlike a merger or acquisition, and additional critical issues such as executive compensation.



The three main approaches to corporate dividend policy are as follows:



The residual approach, in which dividend payments come out of the residual or leftover equity only after specific project capital requirements are met. Companies using the residual dividend approach usually attempt to maintain balance in their debt-to-equity (D/E) ratios before making any distributions.
The stability approach, in which the board often sets quarterly dividends at a fraction of yearly earnings. This reduces uncertainty for investors and provides them with a steady source of income.
A hybrid of both the residual approach and stability approach, in which a company’s board views the D/E ratio as a longer-term goal. In these cases, companies usually decide on one set dividend that is a relatively small portion of yearly income and can be easily maintained, as well as an extra dividend payment to distribute only when income exceeds general levels.
What Are Lipper Indexes?  

Lipper Indexes are indexes that track the financial performance of different types of managed fund strategies. Each index is based on the performance of the largest publicly traded funds in the strategy group.





Key Takeaways

Lipper indexes are benchmarks for actively-managed mutual fund performance, across a range of fund strategies and asset classes,Depending on the particular strategy, anywhere from 30 to 100 individual funds are used to gauge the index's performance.Lipper indexes have become common as a reference when reporting fund performance to investors and analysts.


   Understanding Lipper Indexes  

Lipper Indexes are constructed and managed by Lipper which is owned by Reuters. Lipper manages indexes for nearly every type of mutual fund strategy in the investable market. Public disclosure of Lipper Index performance is provided by the Wall Street Journal and by Barron’s.



To construct each index, Lipper averages the returns of funds in the investable market that are managed to the Index’s strategy. Funds used for index return calculations are chosen by assets under management. The number of funds used by Lipper to obtain Lipper Index performance varies broadly. Most Lipper Indexes use approximately 30 to 100 funds to obtain index performance.



Lipper Indexes are often included in mutual fund performance reporting. Investment managers may use Lipper and Lipper Index data in reporting for their clients. A Lipper Index may also be used as a mutual fund’s primary benchmark.


   Lipper Index Analysis  

Lipper Indexes can help give retail investors insight into the best performing strategies as well as the performance of various strategies throughout different market timeframes. Through this webpage, Lipper provides investors with information on the best and worst-performing indexes across market categories.



One-year Lipper Index returns through July 24, 2021, show the Lipper Upright Growth Fund as the top-performing strategy in the global equity category. This strategy reports a one-year return of 168.7%. Meanwhile, the worst-performing global equity strategy over the past year has been the Lipper SGA International Equity Fund, with a one-year return of -82.02%. It should be noted that performance data changes every year, and that new funds may be created or older funds cease to operate over time.



In the bond market, the Lipper UBS FI Enhanced Global High Yield is the top-performing strategy with a one-year return of 24.17%. The worst performing strategy in the bond market over the past year has been the Lipper Intermediate US Government Index. This strategy has a one-year return of -0.87%.



In the money market category, Lipper Index returns ranged from 0.2% to 0.01% over the one-year period through Jan. 5, 2018. The top-performing index was the Lipper Transamerica Government Money Market Fund with a return of 0.2%. The worst performing fund in the category was the Lipper Legg Mason Partners Premium Money Market Trust with a return of 0.01%
What Are Liquid Alternatives?  

Liquid alternative investments (or liquid alts) are mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that aim to provide investors with diversification and downside protection through exposure to alternative investment strategies. These products' selling point is that they are liquid, meaning that they can be bought and sold daily, unlike traditional alternatives which offer monthly or quarterly liquidity. They come with lower minimum investments than the typical hedge fund, and investors don't have to pass net-worth or income requirements to invest. 



Critics argue that the liquidity of so-called liquid alts will not hold up in more trying market conditions; most of the capital invested in liquid alts has entered the market during the post-financial crisis bull market. Critics also contend that the fees for liquid alternatives are too high. For proponents, though, liquid alts are a valuable innovation because they make the strategies employed by hedge funds accessible to retail investors. 





Key Takeaways

Liquid alternative, or liquid alts, are alternative investment vehicles that aim to be more accessible to retail investors.While they follow many of the same market strategies, liquid alts are far more liquid than hedge funds - meaning that investors can readily buy and sell shares in the fund. Liquid alts also have lower investment minimums.Critics argue that liquid alts may not be the panacea for retail investors that they claim, with unique and often opaque risks, high fees, and they can be prone to closure during volatile markets.


   Understanding Liquid Alts  

Liquid alts aim to counteract the drawbacks of alternative investments by providing investors with exposure to alternative investments through products that can be redeemed daily, just like a mutual fund.



An alternative investment is a loosely defined term that, in principle, refers to almost any asset that is not a long-only stock or a bond. Examples include fine art, private equity, derivatives, commodities, real estate, distressed debt, and hedge funds. A drawback of any of these investments, however, is their lack of liquidity. Under normal market conditions, a $5,000 position in Alphabet Inc. is easy enough to offload in milliseconds without affecting the price. Even if the private equity market is in rude health, however, it will take considerably more time and effort to sell an alternative investment, and there may be lock-up periods. It can also be more difficult to take a small position in alternative investments.


   Criticism of Liquid Alternatives  

The number of liquid alternative funds has mushroomed since the financial crisis that began in 2007, as individual investors and advisors are increasingly eager to protect against downside risk by using hedge fund-like strategies. In a July 2015 survey, Barron's and Morningstar found that 63% of advisors planned to allocate more than 11% of their portfolios to liquid alts within the next five years. Since then, however, the liquid alts market has seen an influx of fund closures and consolidations, leading to a period of slowed growth for the market, which reached a size of $192 billion, as measured by assets, at the end of 2015. Asset growth in the market has remained inconsistent, and per Strategic Insight, liquid alt assets rebounded to $184 billion at the end of the third quarter in 2017, from $179 billion at the end of 2015.



Critics point out that liquid alt funds charge higher fees on average than other actively managed mutual funds. Second, stuffing otherwise illiquid assets into liquid packaging has the potential to backfire. Hedge funds generally require investors to agree to withdraw funds only every quarter or year. The ability to trade in and out of liquid alts has contributed to their popularity, but if a downturn precipitates a run on the funds, providers may be forced to sell assets at sharply discounted prices, and investors may suffer as a result.


   Examples of Liquid Alt Strategies and Sub-Categories  

Morningstar has identified 12 categories described as liquid alternative strategies. The largest, accounting for over 80% of the funds at the time, were the following:



Long-short equity: Funds that concentrate on equity securities and derivatives and combine long positions with short bets achieved through ETFs, options, or plain-old short stock positions. The balance of short to long positions will depend on the fund's macro outlook.
Nontraditional bond: These funds take unconventional approaches to bond investing, often trying to achieve returns that are uncorrelated with the bond market. "Unconstrained" funds invest with a high degree of flexibility, taking positions in high-yield foreign debt, for example.
Market neutral: Funds that seek to minimize systematic risks born of overexposure to specific sectors, countries, currencies, etc. They aim to match short positions and long positions within these areas and achieve low beta.
Managed futures: These funds invest primarily through derivatives, including listed and over-the-counter futures, options, swaps, and foreign exchange contracts. Most use momentum approaches, while others follow mean-reversion or other strategies.
Multialternative: These funds combine different alternative strategies, such as those listed above. They may have fixed allocations to set strategies or vary their approaches depending on market developments.



Other categories include bear-market, multi-currency, volatility, and trading-leveraged commodities (the last includes just one fund). Citi has listed three different types of mutual fund structures that classify as liquid alternatives: single-manager funds, multi-alternatives, and commodities (or managed futures) funds. Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs has devised a different set of categories that more closely parallel strategies commonly employed by hedge funds. Goldman has divided its universe of liquid alt funds into equity long/short, tactical trading/macro, multistrategy, event-driven, and relative value approaches.
What Is a Liquid Asset?  

A liquid asset is an asset that can easily be converted into cash in a short amount of time. Liquid assets include things like cash, money market instruments, and marketable securities. Both individuals and businesses can be concerned with tracking liquid assets as a portion of their net worth. For the purposes of financial accounting, a company’s liquid assets are reported on its balance sheet as current assets.





Key Takeaways

A liquid asset is an asset that can easily be converted into cash within a short amount of time.Liquid assets generally tend to have liquid markets with high levels of demand and security.Businesses record liquid assets in the current assets portion of their balance sheet.Business assets are usually broken out through the quick and current ratio methods to analyze liquidity types and solvency.Examples of liquid assets may include cash, cash equivalents, money market accounts, marketable securities, short-term bonds, or accounts receivable. 












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Liquid Assets  

A liquid asset is cash on hand or an asset that can be easily converted to cash. In terms of liquidity, cash is supreme since cash as legal tender is the ultimate goal. Assets can then be converted to cash in a short time are similar to cash itself because the asset holder can quickly and easily get cash in a transaction exchange.



Liquid assets are often viewed as cash, and likewise may be called cash equivalents because the owner is confident the assets can easily be exchanged for cash at any time.



Generally, several factors must exist for a liquid asset to be considered liquid. It must be in an established, liquid market with a large number of readily available buyers. Ownership transfer must also be secure and easily facilitated. In some cases, the amount of time to cash conversion will vary.



The most liquid assets are cash and securities that can immediately be transacted for cash. Companies can also look to assets with a cash conversion expectation of one year or less as liquid. Collectively, these assets are known as a company’s current assets. This broadens the scope of liquid assets to include accounts receivable and inventory.






All liquid assets are current assets. By their nature, the benefits of long-term assets aren't generally recognized within the next 12 months.


  Balance Sheet Accounting  

In financial accounting, the balance sheet breaks assets down by current and long-term with a hierarchical method in accordance to liquidity. A company’s current assets are assets a company looks to for cash conversion within a one-year period. Current assets have different liquidity conversion timeframes depending on the type of asset. Cash on hand is considered the most liquid type of liquid asset since it is cash itself.



Cash is legal tender that an individual or company can use to make payments on liability obligations. Cash equivalents and marketable securities follow cash as investments that can be transacted for cash within a very short period, often immediately in the open market. Other current assets can also include accounts receivable and inventory.



On the balance sheet, assets become less liquid by their hierarchy. As such, the long-term assets portion of the balance sheet includes non-liquid assets. These assets are expected for cash conversion in one year or more. Land, real estate investments, equipment, and machinery are considered types of non-liquid assets because they take time to convert to cash, costs can be incurred to convert them to cash, and they may not convert to cash at all.


   Examples of Liquid Assets  

Examples of liquid assets held by both individuals and businesses include:


  Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash is the most liquid asset possible as it is already in the form of money. This includes physical cash, savings account balances, and checking account balances. It also includes cash from foreign countries, though some foreign currency may be difficult to convert to a more local currency.



Cash equivalents are other asset holding that may be treated similar as cash due to their low risk (or insurance coverage) and short-term duration. Examples of cash equivalents include Treasury bills, Treasury notes, commercial paper, certificates of deposit (CD), or money market funds. Note that some items may have less liquidity based on terms of the vehicle. For example, some CDs can not be broken or require a substantial penalty for early termination.


  Marketable Securities  

Some marketable securities are considered liquid based on the underlying asset. Examples may include stocks, bonds, preferred shares of stock, index funds, or ETFs. Other instruments may include futures or options.



A critical part in understanding the liquidity of marketable securities is their holding duration. Liquid assets must be convertible to cash quickly; depending on the nature of the security, this isn't always possible. Also, be mindful that certain investments must be reported on the balance sheet as a long-term asset and are not technically considered current assets.


  Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable are a controversial type of liquid asset. On one hand, a company has a legal claim to cash that is due to them often as part of their business operations. A customer may have bought something on credit; after the credit term is up, the company is due to receive cash.



On the other hand, accounts receivable balances may go uncollected. It may also take an unforeseeably long amount of time to collect payment from a delinquent client. When considering liquid assets, be aware that a company may not collect all of its accounts receivable balance. For this reason, liquid asset analysis may include the contra asset allowable for doubtful accounts balance to reduce accounts receivable to only what the company thinks they will collect.


  Inventory  

Another difficult current asset to assess is inventory. In some situations, inventory may be considered a liquid asset if it has a large market with highly visible marketplaces for a product in high demand. Consider the latest iPhone; any models being recorded as inventory may quickly be demanded by the market.



Alternatively, what if demand for the iPhone sours? What if a new model comes out, and Apple is stuck with obsolescent inventory? What if primary warehouses are broken into and most of the inventory stolen? In theory, inventory is a liquid asset because it gets converted to cash as part of normal business operations. However, should business slow in a recession or any event above occurs, inventory may not be as liquid.


   Analyzing Liquid Assets  

In business, liquid assets are important to manage for both internal performance and external reporting. A company with more liquid assets has a greater capability of paying debt obligations as they become due.



Companies have strategic processes for managing the amount of cash on their balance sheet available to pay bills and manage required expenditures. Industries like banking have a required amount of cash and cash equivalents that the company must hold to comply with industry regulations.



There are several key ratios analysts use to analyze liquidity, often called solvency ratios. Two of the most common are the quick ratio and the current ratio. In the current ratio, current assets are used to assess a company’s ability to cover its current liabilities with all of its current assets and to survive unplanned and special circumstances like a pandemic.



The quick ratio is a more stringent solvency ratio that looks at a company’s ability to cover its current liabilities with just its most liquid assets. The quick ratio does include accounts receivable.






The quick ratio and the current ratio are key financial statement ratios used to break down liquidity levels and analyze solvency.


   Liquid and Non-Liquid Markets  

Both individuals and businesses deal with liquid and non-liquid markets. Cash as supreme is the ultimate goal for liquidity and ease of conversion to cash generally separates the distinction of a liquid vs. non-liquid market but there can also be some other considerations.



A liquid asset must have an established market in which enough buyers and sellers exist so that an asset can easily be converted to cash. The market price of the asset should also not be significantly changed, resulting in less liquidity or greater illiquidity for subsequent market participants.



The stock market is an example of a liquid market because of its large number of buyers and sellers which results in easy conversion to cash. Because stocks can be sold using electronic markets for full market prices on demand, publicly listed equity securities are liquid assets. Liquidity can vary by security, however, based on market capitalization and average share volume transactions.



The foreign exchange market is deemed to be the most liquid market in the world because it hosts the exchange of trillions of dollars each day, 24 hours a day, making it impossible for any one individual to influence the exchange rate. Other liquid markets include commodities and secondary market debt.


  Illiquid Markets  

Illiquid markets have their own considerations and constraints. These factors can be important for individuals and investors when allocating for liquid vs. non-liquid assets and making investment decisions.



For example, a real estate owner may wish to sell a property to pay off debt obligations. Real estate liquidity can vary depending on the property and market but it is not a liquid market like stocks. As such, the property owner may need to accept a lower price in order to sell the property quickly. A quick sale can have some negative effects on the market liquidity overall and will not always generate the full market value expected.



Another type of controversial illiquid asset may include private market fixed income which can be liquidated or traded but less actively. Overall, in considering illiquid assets, investors usually apply some type of liquidity premium which requires a higher yield and return for the risk of liquidity.


   Requirements on the Value of Liquid Assets  

Some companies or entities may face requirements on the value of liquid assets. This restriction is to ensure the short-term health of the company and protection of its clients.



The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has outlined liquid asset requirements for financial institutions to become FHA-approved lenders. For example, non-supervised mortgagees must possess a minimum of $200,000 of liquid assets at all times.



The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) stipulates the level of unencumbered liquid assets lending institutions must have on hand. It also outlines policies when institutions are required to have more liquid assets are required, such as (1) recent trends show substantial reductions in large liability accounts, (2) the loan portfolio includes a high volume of non-marketable loans, or (3) the institution's access to capital markets is impaired.



Last, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has proposed amendments to money market funds. Rule 2a-7 outlines requirements after the acquisition of an asset where a money market fund must hold at least 10% of its total assets in daily liquid assets and 30% of its total assets in weekly liquid assets. New proposals are being considered to increase both daily and weekly liquid asset thresholds.




What Is an Example of a Liquid Asset?
An example of a liquid asset is money market holdings. Money market accounts usually do not have hold restrictions or lockup periods (i.e. you are not permitted to sell holdings for a specific period of time). In addition, the price is broadly communicated across a wide range of buyers and sellers. Due to usually higher volumes of activity for money market securities, it's fairly easy to buy and sell in the open market, making the asset liquid and easily convertible to cash.




Why Are Assets Called Liquid?
Assets may be described as liquid to explain that they have fluidity, have flexibility, and can easily change. As opposed more rigid assets that can't be easily exchanged for cash, fluid assets can easily change form and be quickly traded.




Is a Car a Liquid Asset?
It depends on the car. For the most part, vehicles in good condition may be desired in the open market, prompting a quick sale. There's a few things to keep in mind, though.First, the price you offer for your may impacts the liquidity of it. You will be more likely to sell your vehicle for less and may find it difficult to find buyers for your top dollar quote. Second, the condition of the car matters. Better quality assets will usually be more liquid.Last, a car's liquidity depends on the broad car market. How are economic conditions and interest rates? What is the demand for your specific make, model, and year? Is your car rare, expensive, or custom (in which sellers may be disinterested)? There are many factors to contribute, although most cars can generally be sold quickly.




Why Are Liquid Assets Important?
Liquid assets are important because a company consistently needs cash to meet its short-term obligations. Without cash, a company can't pay its bills to vendors or wages to employees. A company may not always have a lot of cash on hand, but it better make sure it has sufficient amounts of liquid assets that can quickly be converted into cash if needed should an immediate need for money arise.




What Is the Difference Between a Liquid Asset and Illiquid Asset?
A liquid asset is an item of future economic benefit to a company that can easily be exchanged for cash. On the other hand, illiquid assets are more difficult to sell. Consider an office building in downtown New York compared to a single share of stock of Amazon. The office building may take months to find a buyer, engage in negotiations, draft legal documentation, and finalize the deal. On the other hand, a single share of stock of publicly traded companies can usually be bought or sold online very quickly.


   The Bottom Line  

To measure how well a company will meet its short-term debt obligations, a company should be mindful of its liquid assets. Liquid assets are items that can be quickly converted to cash, and companies earning tremendous profit may still face liquidity problems if they don't have the short-term resources to pay bills.
What Is a Liquid Market?  

A liquid market a one with many available buyers and sellers and comparatively low transaction costs. The details of what makes a market liquid may vary depending on the asset being exchanged. In a liquid market, it is easy to execute a trade quickly and at a desirable price because there are numerous buyers and sellers and the product being exchanged is standardized and in high demand. In a liquid market despite daily changes in supply and demand the spread between what the buyer wants to pay and what sellers will offer remains relatively small.



The opposite of a liquid market is called a "thin market" or an "illiquid market." Thin markets may have considerably large spreads between the highest available buyer and the lowest available seller.





Key Takeaways

Liquid markets have many available buyers and sellers where prices change in comparatively small increments.Liquid markets make it quick and efficient for buyers and sellers to trade in and out of securities with tight spreads and low transaction costs.Liquid markets include the money market, the market for Treasuries, and many stocks and bonds.Markets for trading specialized physical goods such as luxury items or houses are not liquid.


   Understanding Liquid Markets  

Liquid markets are usually found in financial assets such as forex, futures, bonds, and stocks. Markets for high-priced tangible goods, such as luxury items, heavy industrial equipment, or houses are considered illiquid markets. But even financial securities can also be thinly traded depending on a number of factors including the time of day, the immediate conditions of a given market, or the relative visibility of the asset.



The market for the stock of a Fortune 500 company would be considered a liquid market, but the market for a family-owned restaurant would not. The largest and most liquid market in the world is the forex market, where foreign currencies are traded. It is estimated that the daily trading volume in the currency market is over $5 trillion, which is dominated by the U.S. dollar. The markets for the euro, yen, pound, franc, and Canadian dollar are also highly liquid.



Futures markets that trade on the major currencies and major stock market indexes are very liquid, but futures markets that trade specialized grain or metals products may be much more thinly traded.


   Advantages of a Liquid Market  

The main advantage of a liquid market is that investments can be easily transferred into cash at a good rate and in a timely fashion. For example, if someone owns $100,000 in U.S. Treasury bills and loses their job, the money in these Treasuries is easily accessible, and the value is known because it is a liquid market.



However, on the other hand, real estate property is not so liquid. Because there may be a small number of buyers for a given house in a given timeframe, it may take longer to sell the property. The faster you need to sell it, the lower the offer you will need to make to sell, which means you will receive less money you get for it.


   Liquidity and Volatility  

One significant factor related to liquidity is volatility. Low liquidity, a thinly-traded market, can generate high volatility when supply or demand changes rapidly; conversely, sustained high volatility could drive some investors away from a particular market. Whether it be correlation or causation, a market that has less liquidity is likely to become more volatile. With less interest, any shift in prices is exasperated as participants have to cross wider spreads, which in turn shifts prices further. Good examples are lightly traded commodity markets such as grains, corn, and wheat futures.
What Is Liquidating?  

The term “liquidate” means converting property or assets into cash or cash equivalents by selling them on the open market. Liquidation similarly refers to the process of bringing a business to an end and distributing its assets to claimants.



Liquidation of assets may be either voluntary or forced. Voluntary liquidation may be enacted to raise the cash needed for new investments or purchases or to close out old positions. A forced liquidation may be used in bankruptcy procedures, in which an entity chooses or is forced by a legal judgment or contract to turn assets into a liquid form (i.e., cash).



Liquidation can also refer to the process of selling off inventory, usually at steep discounts. It is not always necessary to file for bankruptcy to liquidate inventory, as a company may elect to do so to make way for newer items.





Key Takeaways

To liquidate means to sell an asset for cash.Investors may choose to liquidate an investment for a variety of reasons, including needing the cash, wanting to get out of a weak investment, or consolidating portfolio holdings.In addition to voluntary liquidation, individuals and businesses can be forced to liquidate assets through the bankruptcy process or by one’s broker in response to a margin call.


   Understanding Liquidation  

In investing, liquidation occurs when an investor closes their position in an asset. Liquidating an asset is usually carried out when an investor or portfolio manager needs cash to reallocate funds or rebalance a portfolio. An asset that is not performing well may also be partially or fully liquidated. An investor who needs cash for other non-investment obligations—such as paying bills, vacation expenses, buying a car, covering tuition, etc.—may opt to liquidate their assets.



Financial advisors tasked with allocating assets to a portfolio usually consider, among other factors, why someone wants to invest and for how long. An investor who wants to buy a home within five years may hold a portfolio of stocks and bonds designed to be liquidated in five years. The cash proceeds would then be used to make a down payment for a home. The financial advisor would keep that five-year deadline in mind when selecting investments likely to appreciate and protect the capital for the investor.


   Margin Calls  

Brokers may force certain customers to liquidate holdings in the event of an unmet margin call. This is a request for additional funds that occurs when the value of a margin account falls below a certain threshold required by their broker due to investment losses.



If a margin call is not met, a broker may liquidate any open positions to bring the account back up to the minimum value. They may be able to do this without the investor’s approval. This effectively means that the broker has the right to sell any stock holdings, in the requisite amounts, without letting the investor know.



Furthermore, the broker may also charge an investor a commission on these transaction(s). This investor is held responsible for any losses sustained during this process.


   When Companies Liquidate Assets  

While businesses can liquidate assets to free up cash even in the absence of financial hardship, asset liquidation in the business world is mostly done as part of a bankruptcy procedure. When a company fails to repay creditors due to financial hardship, a bankruptcy court may order a compulsory liquidation of assets if the company is found to be insolvent.



The secured creditors would take over the assets that were pledged as collateral before the loan was approved. The unsecured creditors would be paid off with the remaining cash from liquidation. If any funds are left after settling all creditors, the shareholders will be paid according to the proportion of shares that each holds with the insolvent company.



Not all liquidation is the result of insolvency. A company may undergo a voluntary liquidation, which occurs when shareholders elect to wind down the company. The petition for voluntary liquidation is filed by shareholders when it is believed that the company has achieved its goals and purpose. The shareholders appoint a liquidator who dissolves the company by collecting the assets of the solvent company, liquidating the assets, and distributing the proceeds to employees who are owed wages and to creditors in order of priority.



Any cash that remains is then distributed to preferred shareholders before common shareholders get a cut.






Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code governs liquidation proceedings. Solvent companies may also file for Chapter 7, but this is uncommon.




What Does It Mean to Liquidate a Company?
To liquidate a company is when it sells off all of the assets on its balance sheet to pay off debts and obligations in order to dissolve the company. It is the process of winding down a company’s affairs and distributing any remaining assets to the company’s creditors and shareholders (if anything remains).Liquidation may be the best option for a company if it is no longer able to meet its financial obligations, if it has a large amount of debt that cannot be paid off, or if it is insolvent. It may also be the best option if the business is no longer profitable and there are no prospects for turning it around, as through a Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceeding.




What Happens to the Employees and Shareholders of a Liquidated Company?
When a company is liquidated, it ceases to operate and its employees will often lose their jobs. However, they are still often entitled to receive unpaid wages and other benefits owed to them by contract, which would be paid out of the proceeds of the liquidation. In some cases, employees may also be able to claim unemployment from the government while receiving these unpaid wages.When a company goes bankrupt, its creditors are repaid first from the liquidation proceeds, followed by preferred shareholders. Only after both of those categories are made whole will common-stock shareholders receive what’s left. This is often pennies on the dollar, if anything at all.




Why Might an Individual Liquidate Assets?
Liquidating personal assets involves selling off items such as property, stocks and bonds, collectibles, and personal belongings to pay off debts or generate cash. It is a way of raising money quickly to meet financial obligations.An individual might need to liquidate their assets if they are facing financial difficulties such as mounting debts, job loss, or unexpected large bills like emergency medical expenses. Liquidation may also be necessary in the event of a divorce settlement or the need to fund a large purchase such as a home’s down payment or for a business. Individuals may also be forced to liquidate securities held in a brokerage account if a margin call cannot be satisfied.




Where Did the Word ‘Liquidate’ Come from?
The term “liquidate” has been in use in some form or another since the 16th century and has been used in various contexts over time. The word comes from the Latin word “liquidus,” which means “to melt” or “make clear.”The term was later adopted by legal and financial professionals to refer to the process of quickly settling debts, selling assets, and distributing proceeds. In this context, “liquidate” refers to the conversion of assets into cash, which can then be used to pay off debts or distribute to shareholders.


   The Bottom Line  

To liquidate is to sell assets for cash, often quickly. Liquidation may be voluntary to increase one’s cash position or remove risk, or forced such as by a margin call in a brokerage account or by a bankruptcy judge in the case of insolvency. The word “liquidation” comes from the fact that cash, by definition, is the most liquid asset that exists.



In case a company experiences Chapter 7 bankruptcy, its assets will be liquidated and the company will cease to exist, leaving its shareholders with cents on the dollar, if anything.
What Are Liquidated Damages?  

Liquidated damages are presented in certain legal contracts as an estimate of otherwise intangible or hard-to-define losses to one of the parties. It is a provision that allows for the payment of a specified sum should one of the parties be in breach of contract.





Key Takeaways

Liquidated damages are presented in certain legal contracts as an estimate of otherwise intangible or hard-to-define losses to one of the parties.These damages are paid out in the case of a breach of contract, and are pre-estimated and spelled out in advance when the contract is signed.Liquidated damages are meant as a fair representation of losses in situations where actual damages are difficult to ascertain.The courts typically require that the parties involved make the most reasonable assessment possible for the liquidated damages clause at the time the contract is signed.


   Understanding Liquidated Damages  

Liquidated damages are meant as a fair representation of losses in situations where actual damages are difficult to ascertain. In general, liquidated damages are designed to be fair, rather than punitive.



Liquidated damages may be referred to in a specific contract clause to cover circumstances where a party faces a loss from assets that do not have a direct monetary correlation. For instance, if a party in a contract were to leak supply chain pricing information that is vital to a business, this could fall under liquidated damages.


   Example of Liquidated Damages  

A common example is a design phase for a new product that may involve consultation with outside suppliers and consultants in addition to a company's employees. The underlying plans or designs for a product might not have a set market value. This may be true even if the subsequent product is crucial to the progress and growth of a company.



These plans may be deemed to be trade secrets of the business and highly sensitive. If the plans were exposed by a disgruntled employee or supplier, it could greatly hamper the ability to generate revenue from the release of that product. A company would have to make an estimation in advance of what such losses could cost in order to include this in a liquidated damages clause of a contract.


   Special Considerations  

It is possible that a liquidated damages clause might not be enforced by the courts. This can occur if the monetary amount of liquidated damages cited in the clause is extraordinarily disproportional to the scope of what was affected by the breached contract.



Such limitations prevent a plaintiff from attempting to claim an unsubstantiated exorbitant amount from a defendant. For instance, a plaintiff might not be able to claim liquidated damages that amount to multiples of its gross revenue if the breach only affected a specific portion of its operations.



The courts typically require that the parties involved make the most reasonable assessment possible for the liquidated damages clause at the time the contract is signed. This can provide a sense of understanding and reassurance of what is at stake if that aspect of the contract is breached. A liquidated damages clause can also give the parties involved a basis to negotiate from for an out-of-court settlement.






The concept of liquidated damages is framed around compensation related to some harm and injury to the party, rather than a fine imposed on the defendant.




How Do Liquidated Damages Differ From a Penalty Clause?
Liquidated damages are intended to recover what has been lost and make the damaged party whole. A penalty clause, in contrast, is intended to be a form of punishment (punitive).




What Are Unliquidated Damages?
Unliquidated damages are similar to liquidated damages in that they seek to compensate a harmed party for a breach of contract. Unliquidated damages, however, are not pre-estimated in advance when the contract is signed, as is the case for liquidated damages.




What Are the Types of Damages in the Legal Context?
When there is a legal violation that harms or injures another party, there are three general types of compensatory damages (paid out as money) that the plaintiff can seek and which may be awarded by a court:Economic damages to recover money or other financial lossesNon-economic damages to make whole for non-monetary losses such as bodily or emotional harmPunitive damages to impose an additional punishment on the guilty party
What is a Liquidating Dividend  

A liquidating dividend is a type of payment that a corporation makes to its shareholders during a partial or full liquidation. For the most part, this form of distribution is made from the company's capital base. As a return of capital, this distribution is typically not taxable for shareholders. A liquidating dividend is distinguished from regular dividends that are issued from the company's operating profits or retained earnings.



A liquidating dividend is also called liquidating distribution.


   BREAKING DOWN Liquidating Dividend  

A liquidating dividend may be made in one or more installments. In the United States, a corporation paying out liquidating dividends will issue a Form 1099-DIV to all of its shareholders that details the amount of the distribution.﻿



Despite certain tax advantages, investors who receive liquidation dividends often find that these still do not cover their initial investment as the company’s fundamental quality has deteriorated.


   Liquidating Dividend and Traditional Dividends  

In general, with regular dividends, on and after the ex-dividend date, a seller is still entitled to the payout even if she/he has already sold it to a buyer. Essentially, a person who owns the security on the ex-dividend date will receive the distribution, regardless of who currently holds the stock. The ex-dividend date is typically set for two business days prior to the record date. This is due to the T+3 system of settlement financial markets presently use in North America.



For a regular dividend, the declaration date or announcement date is when a company's board of directors announces a distribution. The payment date is when the company officially mails the dividend checks or credits them to investor accounts.


   Liquidating Dividend and Liquidation Preference  

In addition to a liquidating dividend, companies have a set order in which they must re-pay their owners in the event of a liquidation. Liquidation can occur when a company is insolvent and cannot pay its obligations when they come due, among other reasons. As company operations end, remaining assets go to existing creditors and shareholders. Each of these parties has a priority in the order of claims to company assets. The most senior claims belong to secured creditors, followed by unsecured creditors, including bondholders, the government (if the company owes taxes) and employees (if the company owes them unpaid wages or other obligations). Preferred and common shareholders receive any remaining assets, respectively.
What Is Liquidation?  

Liquidation in finance and economics is the process of bringing a business to an end and distributing its assets to claimants. It is an event that usually occurs when a company is insolvent, meaning it cannot pay its obligations when they are due. As company operations end, the remaining assets are used to pay creditors and shareholders, based on the priority of their claims. General partners are subject to liquidation.



The term liquidation may also be used to refer to the selling of poor-performing goods at a price lower than the cost to the business or at a price lower than the business desires.





Key Takeaways

The term liquidation in finance and economics is the process of bringing a business to an end and distributing its assets to claimants.A bankrupt business is no longer in existence once the liquidation process is complete and it has been deregistered.Liquidation usually occurs during the bankruptcy process under Chapter 7.Proceeds are distributed to claimants in order of priority. Creditors receive priority over shareholders.Liquidation can also refer to the process of selling off inventory, usually at steep discounts.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How Liquidation Works  

Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code governs liquidation proceedings. Solvent companies may also file for Chapter 7, but this is uncommon. Not all bankruptcies involve liquidation; Chapter 11, for example, involves rehabilitating the bankrupt company and restructuring its debts. In Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the company will continue to exist after any obsolete inventory is liquidated, after underperforming branches close, and after relevant debts are restructured.



Unlike when individuals file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, business debts still exist after Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The debt will remain until the statute of limitations has expired, and as there is no longer a debtor to pay what is owed, the debt must be written off by the creditor.


   Distribution of Assets During Liquidation  

Assets are distributed based on the priority of various parties’ claims, with a trustee appointed by the U.S. Department of Justice overseeing the process. The most senior claims belong to secured creditors who have collateral on loans to the business. These lenders will seize the collateral and sell it—often at a significant discount, due to the short time frames involved. If that does not cover the debt, they will recoup the balance from the company’s remaining liquid assets, if any.



Next in line are unsecured creditors. These include bondholders, the government (if it is owed taxes), and employees (if they are owed unpaid wages or other obligations).



Finally, shareholders receive any remaining assets, in the unlikely event that there are any. In such cases, investors in preferred stock have priority over holders of common stock. Liquidation can also refer to the process of selling off inventory, usually at steep discounts. It is not necessary to file for bankruptcy to liquidate inventory. 


   Liquidation of Securities  

Liquidation can also refer to the act of exiting a securities position. In the simplest terms, this means selling the position for cash; another approach is to take an equal but opposite position in the same security—for example, by shorting the same number of shares that make up a long position in a stock.



A broker may forcibly liquidate a trader’s positions if the trader’s portfolio has fallen below the margin requirement, or they have demonstrated a reckless approach to risk-taking.


   Example of Liquidation  

Company ABC has been in business for 10 years and has been generating profits throughout its run. In the last year, however, the business has struggled financially due to a downturn in the economy. It has reached a point where ABC can no longer pay any of its debts or cover any of its expenses, such as payments to its suppliers.



ABC has decided that it will close up shop and liquidate its business. It enters into Chapter 7 bankruptcy and its assets are sold off. These include a warehouse, trucks, and machinery with a total value of $5 million. Currently, ABC owes $3.5 million to its creditors and $1 million to its suppliers. The sale of its assets during the liquidation process will cover its obligations.




What Is the Liquidation of a Company?
The liquidation of a company is when the company's assets are sold and the company ceases operations and is deregistered. The assets are sold to pay back various claimants, such as creditors and shareholders. The liquidation process happens when a company is insolvent; it can no longer meet its financial obligations.




What Does It Mean to Liquidate Money?
To liquidate means to convert assets into cash. For example, a person may sell their home, car, or other asset and receive cash for doing so. This is known as liquidation. Many assets are assessed based on how liquid they are. For example, a home is not very liquid because it takes time to sell a house, which involves getting it ready for sale, assessing the value, putting it up for sale, and finding a buyer. On the other hand, stocks are more liquid as they can be easily sold and cash received from the sale (if they have appreciated).




Is a Company Dissolved After Liquidation?
No, a company is not dissolved after liquidation. Dissolving a company and liquidating it are two separate procedures. Liquidating a company means selling off its assets to claimants whereas dissolving a company is deregistering it.


   The Bottom Line  

When a company becomes insolvent, meaning that it can no longer meet its financial obligations, it undergoes liquidation. Liquidation is the process of closing a business and distributing its assets to claimants.



The sale of assets is used to pay creditors and shareholders in the order of priority. Liquidation is also used to refer to the act of exiting a securities position, usually by selling the position for cash.
What Is Liquidation Margin?  

Buying securities on margin allows a trader to acquire more shares than can be purchased on a cash-only basis. If the stock price goes up, earnings are often higher because an investor holds more shares. However, if the stock price falls, traders may lose more than their initial investment.



The liquidation margin is the value of all of the positions in a margin account, including cash deposits and the market value of its open long and short positions. If a trader allows their liquidation margin to become too low, they may be faced with margin calls from their brokers and the broker may liquidate those positions.





Key Takeaways

A liquidation margin is the current value of a margin account including cash deposits and the most recent market value of its open positions.If traders allow their liquidation margins to become too low, they may be faced with margin calls from their brokers.Traders can increase their liquidation margins by depositing additional cash in their accounts or other forms of collateral.


   Understanding Liquidation Margins  

Margin trading is the practice of borrowing money from a broker to execute leveraged transactions, such as buying securities. Leveraged trading involves borrowing the securities themselves from the broker's inventory when engaging in short selling. The trader then sells those securities and seeks to repurchase them at a lower price in the future.



When using margin trading, an investor must ensure that the total value of the margin account does not drop below a certain level. The value of the account, based on market prices, is known as the liquidation margin.



Consider a scenario where a trader makes a series of leveraged stock purchases. If the purchases begin to generate losses, the liquidation margin of the account will decline. If the decline continues, it will eventually reach the point where the broker has the right to initiate a margin call.



A margin call effectively forces the trader to provide additional collateral for the account to reduce its risk level. Typically, this collateral consists of depositing more cash in the brokerage account, which becomes part of the liquidation margin, raising the margin level above the required threshold.


   Types of Liquidation Margins  

If an investor or trader holds a long position, the liquidation margin is equal to what the investor or trader would retain if the position were closed. If a trader has a short position, the liquidation margin is equal to what the trader would owe to purchase the security.


   Example of a Liquidation Margin  

Sarah is a margin trader who invested $10,000 in a single stock using 100% leverage. Assuming Sarah paid the required margin interest or the loan rate between broker and investor and used a 2:1 leverage. The stock increased in value, and she holds $20,000 worth of stock. Since the initial liquidation margin is only $10,000, $10,000 is what Sarah would receive if the account were closed.



Suppose that Sarah's stock performed poorly and fell 25%. Since Sarah was initially using 2:1 leverage, that means she lost 50% of her original investment. Sarah's account now has a liquidation margin of just $5,000, but she commands $15,000 worth of stock.



When the equity in a margin account falls below the brokerage requirements, most firms will issue a margin call. When this happens, action is required to increase the equity in an account by depositing cash or by selling securities. However, selling a position the following business day would create a margin liquidation violation.



A margin liquidation violation occurs when a margin account has been issued both a Federal Reserve and an exchange call and you delay selling securities instead of depositing cash to cover the calls.




What Does Liquidation Mean?
Liquidation is defined as converting assets into cash, or liquid assets.




What Happens When Margin Is Liquidated?
If an investor receives a margin call but is unable to come up with the funds to satisfy it, the broker may be forced to sell the traders holding until the value of the margin call has been satisfied.




What Is Margin Liquidation Level?
The level at which the liquidation margin is reached will vary between brokerages and may depend on the type of assets held in an account. More risky assets, for example, may have a more strict liquidation margin. Investment firms detail their requirements on their websites and brokerages often provide tools on their websites like Fidelity Investments Margin Calculator.
What Is a Liquidation Preference?  

A liquidation preference is a clause in a contract that dictates the payout order in case of a corporate liquidation. Typically, the company's investors or preferred stockholders get their money back first, ahead of other kinds of stockholders or debtholders, in the event that the company must be liquidated. Liquidation preferences are frequently used in venture capital contracts, hybrid debt instruments, promissory notes and other structured private capital transactions, to clarify what investors get paid and in which order during a liquidation event, such as the sale of the company."





Key Takeaways

The liquidation preference determines who gets paid first and how much they get paid when a company must be liquidated, such as the sale of the company.Investors or preferred shareholders are usually paid back first, ahead of holders of common stock and debt. The liquidation preference is frequently used in venture capital contracts. 


   Understanding Liquidation Preference  

Liquidation preference, in its broadest sense, determines who gets how much when a company is liquidated, sold, or goes bankrupt. To come to this conclusion, the company's liquidator must analyze the company's secured and unsecured loan agreements, as well as the definition of the share capital (both preferred and common stock) in the company's articles of association. As a result of this process, the liquidator is then able to rank all creditors and shareholders and distribute funds accordingly.






The liquidation preference determines who gets their money first when a company is sold, and how much money they are entitled to get.


   How Liquidation Preferences Work  

The use of specific liquidation preference dispositions is popular when venture capital firms invest in startup companies. The investors often make it a condition for their investment that they receive liquidation preference over other shareholders. This protects venture capitalists from losing money by making sure they get their initial investments back before other parties.



In these cases, there does not need to be an actual liquidation or bankruptcy of a company. In venture capital contracts, a sale of the company is often deemed to be a liquidation event. As such, if the company is sold at a profit, liquidation preference can also help venture capitalists be first in line to claim part of the profits. Venture capitalists are usually repaid before holders of common stock and before the company's original owners and employees. In many cases, the venture capital firm is also a common shareholder.


   Liquidation Preference Examples  

For example, assume a venture capital company invests $1 million in a startup in exchange for 50% of the common stock and $500,000 of preferred stock with liquidation preference. Assume also that the founders of the company invest $500,000 for the other 50% of the common stock. If the company is then sold for $3 million, the venture capital investors receive $2 million, being their preferred $1M and 50% of the remainder, while the founders receive $1 million.



Conversely, if the company sells for $1 million, the venture capital firm receives $1 million and the founders receive nothing.



More generally, liquidation preference can also refer to the repayment of creditors (such as bondholders) before shareholders if a company goes bankrupt. In such a case, the liquidator sells its assets, then uses that money to repay senior creditors first, then junior creditors, then shareholders. In the same way, creditors holding liens on specific assets, such as a mortgage on a building, have a liquidation preference over other creditors in terms of the proceeds of sale from the building.
What Is Liquidation Value?  

Liquidation value is the net value of a company's physical assets if it were to go out of business and the assets sold. The liquidation value is the value of company real estate, fixtures, equipment, and inventory. Intangible assets are excluded from a company's liquidation value.





Key Takeaways

Liquidation value is the total worth of a company's physical assets if it were to go out of business and its assets sold.Liquidation value is determined a company's assets such as real estate, fixtures, equipment, and inventory. Intangible assets are excluded from a company's liquidation value.Liquidation value is usually lower than book value, but greater than salvage value.Assets are sold at a loss during liquidation because the seller must gather as much cash as possible within a short period.


   Understanding Liquidation Value  

There are generally four levels of valuation for business assets: market value, book value, liquidation value, and salvage value. Each level of value provides a way for accountants and analysts to classify the aggregate value of assets. Liquidation value is especially important in the case of bankruptcies and workouts.



Liquidation value does not include intangible assets such as a company's intellectual property, goodwill, and brand recognition. However, if a company is sold rather than liquidated, both the liquidation value and intangible assets determine the company's going-concern value. Value investors look at the difference between a company's market capitalization and its going-concern value to determine whether the company's stock is currently a good buy.






Potential investors will assess the liquidation value of a company before investing. Investors want to know how much of their funds would be returned in the event of bankruptcy.


   Market vs. Book vs. Liquidation vs. Salvage  

Market value typically provides the highest valuation of assets although the measure could be lower than book value if the value of the assets has decreased due to market demand rather than business use.



The book value is the value of the asset as listed on the balance sheet. The balance sheet lists assets at the historical cost, so the value of assets may be higher or lower than market prices. In an economic environment with rising prices, the book value of assets is lower than the market value. The liquidation value is the expected value of the asset once it has been liquidated or sold, presumably at a loss to historical cost.



Finally, the salvage value is the value given to an asset at the end of its useful life; in other words, this is the scrap value.



Liquidation value is usually lower than book value but greater than salvage value. The assets continue to have value, but they are sold at a loss because they must be sold quickly.






Discount footwear company, Payless, filed for bankruptcy in February 2019. Despite once owning 3,400 outlets in 40 countries, the company announced it would close all of its U.S. and Puerto Rico locations.


   Example of a Liquidation  

Liquidation is the difference between some value of tangible assets and liabilities. As an example, assume liabilities for company A are $550,000. Also, assume the book value of assets found on the balance sheet is $1 million, the salvage value is $50,000, and the estimated value of selling all assets at auction is $750,000, or 75 cents on the dollar. The liquidation value is calculated by subtracting the liabilities from the auction value, which is $750,000 minus $550,000, or $200,000.
What Is a Liquidator?  

A liquidator is a person or entity that liquidates something—generally assets. When assets are liquidated, they are sold on the open market for cash or other equivalents. The liquidator is legally empowered to act on behalf of the company in various capacities.



A liquidator refers to an officer who is specially appointed to wind up the affairs of a company when the company is closing—typically when the company is going bankrupt. Assets of a company are sold by the liquidator and the resulting funds are used to pay off the company's debts.



In some jurisdictions, a liquidator may also be named as a trustee, as in a bankruptcy trustee.





Key Takeaways

A liquidator is a person or entity that liquidates something—generally assets, which are sold on the open market for cash or other equivalents.The liquidator is given legal authority to act on behalf of a company in various capacities by courts, shareholders, or unsecured creditors.Liquidators are generally assigned to wind up the affairs of a company when it is going bankrupt.Liquidators are the first to be paid in the hierarchy of claims during a liquidation.Smaller or voluntary liquidations like inventory sales often do not require the services of a liquidator.


   Understanding Liquidators  

A liquidator is a person with the legal authority to act on behalf of a company to sell the company's assets before the company closes in order to generate cash for a variety of reasons including debt repayment.



Liquidators are generally assigned by the court, by unsecured creditors, or by the company's shareholders. They are often employed when a company goes bankrupt. Once the liquidator is assigned, they will then take over control of the person or organization's assets. These are then pooled together and sold off one by one. Cash received from the proceeds of the sale is then used to pay off the outstanding debt held by unsecured creditors.



One of the chief functions of many liquidators is to bring and defend lawsuits. Other actions include collecting outstanding receivables, paying off bills and debts, and finishing other corporate termination procedures.






A liquidator has the legal authority to act on behalf of a company to sell its assets or to bring on and defend lawsuits.


   Powers and Duties of the Liquidator  

A liquidator's authority or power is defined by the laws where the role is assigned. The liquidator may be granted complete authority over all matters of the business until the assets are sold and the debts are all paid off. Some others are granted liberties, while still under the supervision of the court.



The liquidator has a fiduciary and legal responsibility to all parties involved—the company, court, and the creditors involved. Generally considered to be the go-to person when it comes to making any decisions about the company and its assets, the liquidator must keep them under their own control to ensure they are properly valued and dispersed after they are sold. This person issues any correspondence and holds meetings with creditors and the company in question to ensure the liquidation process goes through smoothly.






Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code governs liquidation proceedings. Solvent companies may also file for Chapter 7, but this is uncommon.


   How Is a Liquidator Paid?  

Liquidators charge fees for their services, This cost will vary depending on the size of the business, the complexity of the case, and the time needed to complete the job. The Insolvency Act 1986 specifies the absolute priority (also known as the liquidity preference) with which stakeholders are repaid in the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation.



Per the law, liquidators' fees and expenses are always first to be paid. Payments are then made to senior secured creditors, unsecured and subordinated creditors, preferred shareholders, and lastly common shareholders.



Liquidators aren't always part of the liquidation process. A voluntary liquidation is a self-imposed wind-up and dissolution of a company that has been approved by its shareholders. Such a decision will happen once a company's leadership decides that the company has no reason to continue operating. In some cases, the company may decide to undertake the process on its own.


   Liquidation Sales  

Companies may also engage in liquidation sales to reduce costly inventory at rock-bottom prices. It isn't uncommon to see a retailer advertising a liquidation sale, selling off as much of, if not all, of their stock—often at a deep discount to consumers. In some cases, this may be due to insolvency, but don't always do this because they're closing down. In fact, some stores do this to get rid of and replace the older stock with new inventory.


   Examples of Liquidators  

Many retailers undergo liquidation under a liquidator in order to dispose of their assets because of a looming bankruptcy. The liquidator assesses the business and its assets and may make decisions on when and how to sell them. New inventory shipments will be stopped and the liquidator may plan for sales of the current stock. Everything under the retailer's banner including fixtures, real estate, and other assets will be sold. The liquidator will then organize the proceeds and pay off the creditors.



One example is the shoe retailer Payless. Saddled with debt, retailer Payless filed for Chapter 11 in 2017 with plans to liquidate almost every store it owned in the United States and Canada. Although it managed to restructure and survive that period, it wasn't fully out of the lurch. The company filed for bankruptcy again in February 2019, saying it would close all of its retail locations across North America—about 2,100 stores—selling its merchandise at a discount to consumers.



But liquidators are not only assigned to retailers. Other businesses that face trouble may require a liquidator. They may be required to deal with issues after a merger takes place when one company buys out another. For instance, when a merger takes place, one company's information technology (IT) department may become redundant. The liquidator may be assigned to sell off or divide the assets of one.
What Is Liquidity?  

Liquidity refers to the efficiency or ease with which an asset or security can be converted into ready cash without affecting its market price. The most liquid asset of all is cash itself.



The more liquid an asset is, the easier and more efficient it is to turn it back into cash. Less liquid assets take more time and may have a higher cost.





Key Takeaways

Liquidity refers to the ease with which an asset, or security, can be converted into ready cash without affecting its market price.Cash is the most liquid of assets, while tangible items are less liquid.The two main types of liquidity are market liquidity and accounting liquidity.Current, quick, and cash ratios are most commonly used to measure liquidity.












Tara Anand / Investopedia


   Understanding Liquidity  

In other words, liquidity describes the degree to which an asset can be quickly bought or sold in the market at a price reflecting its intrinsic value. Cash is universally considered the most liquid asset because it can most quickly and easily be converted into other assets. Tangible assets, such as real estate, fine art, and collectibles, are all relatively illiquid. Other financial assets, ranging from equities to partnership units, fall at various places on the liquidity spectrum.



For example, if a person wants a $1,000 refrigerator, cash is the asset that can most easily be used to obtain it. If that person has no cash but a rare book collection that has been appraised at $1,000, they are unlikely to find someone willing to trade them the refrigerator for their collection. Instead, they will have to sell the collection and use the cash to purchase the refrigerator.



That may be fine if the person can wait for months or years to make the purchase, but it could present a problem if the person only had a few days. They may have to sell the books at a discount, instead of waiting for a buyer who was willing to pay the full value. Rare books are an example of an illiquid asset.






There are two main measures of liquidity: market liquidity and accounting liquidity.


  Market Liquidity  

Market liquidity refers to the extent to which a market, such as a country’s stock market or a city’s real estate market, allows assets to be bought and sold at stable, transparent prices. In the example above, the market for refrigerators in exchange for rare books is so illiquid that, for all intents and purposes, it does not exist.



The stock market, on the other hand, is characterized by higher market liquidity. If an exchange has a high volume of trade that is not dominated by selling, the price that a buyer offers per share (the bid price) and the price that the seller is willing to accept (the ask price) will be fairly close to each other.



Investors, then, will not have to give up unrealized gains for a quick sale. When the spread between the bid and ask prices tightens, the market is more liquid; when it grows, the market instead becomes more illiquid. Markets for real estate are usually far less liquid than stock markets. The liquidity of markets for other assets, such as derivatives, contracts, currencies, or commodities, often depends on their size and how many open exchanges exist for them to be traded on.


  Accounting Liquidity  

Accounting liquidity measures the ease with which an individual or company can meet their financial obligations with the liquid assets available to them—the ability to pay off debts as they come due.



In the example above, the rare book collector’s assets are relatively illiquid and would probably not be worth their full value of $1,000 in a pinch. In investment terms, assessing accounting liquidity means comparing liquid assets to current liabilities, or financial obligations that come due within one year.



There are a number of ratios that measure accounting liquidity, which differ in how strictly they define liquid assets. Analysts and investors use these to identify companies with strong liquidity. It is also considered a measure of depth.


   Measuring Liquidity  

Financial analysts look at a firm’s ability to use liquid assets to cover its short-term obligations. Generally, when using these formulas, a ratio greater than one is desirable.


  Current Ratio  

The current ratio is the simplest and least strict. It measures current assets (those that can reasonably be converted to cash in one year) against current liabilities. Its formula would be:



Current Ratio = Current Assets ÷ Current Liabilities


  Quick Ratio (Acid-Test Ratio)  

The quick ratio, or acid-test ratio, is slightly more strict. It excludes inventories and other current assets, which are not as liquid as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and short-term investments. The formula is:



Quick Ratio = (Cash and Cash Equivalents + Short-Term Investments + Accounts Receivable) ÷ Current Liabilities


  Acid-Test Ratio (Variation)  

A variation of the quick/acid-test ratio simply subtracts inventory from current assets, making it a bit more generous:



Acid-Test Ratio (Variation) = (Current Assets - Inventories - Prepaid Costs) ÷ Current Liabilities


  Cash Ratio  

The cash ratio is the most exacting of the liquidity ratios. Excluding accounts receivable, as well as inventories and other current assets, it defines liquid assets strictly as cash or cash equivalents.



More than the current ratio or acid-test ratio, the cash ratio assesses an entity’s ability to stay solvent in case of an emergency—the worst-case scenario—on the grounds that even highly profitable companies can run into trouble if they do not have the liquidity to react to unforeseen events. Its formula is:



Cash Ratio = Cash and Cash Equivalents ÷ Current Liabilities


   Liquidity Example  

In terms of investments, equities as a class are among the most liquid assets. But not all equities are created equal when it comes to liquidity. Some shares trade more actively than others on stock exchanges, meaning that there is more of a market for them. In other words, they attract greater, more consistent interest from traders and investors.



These liquid stocks are usually identifiable by their daily volume, which can be in the millions or even hundreds of millions of shares. When a stock has high volume, it means that there are a large number of buyers and sellers in the market, which makes it easier for investors to buy or sell the stock without significantly affecting its price. On the other hand, low-volume stocks may be harder to buy or sell, as there may be fewer market participants and therefore less liquidity.



For example, on March 13, 2023, 69.6 million shares of Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) traded on exchanges. By comparison, Intel Corp. (INTC) saw a volume of just 48.1 million shares, indicating it was somewhat less liquid. But Ford Motor Co. (F) had a volume of 118.5 million shares, making it the most active, and presumably most liquid, among these three stocks on that day.






In addition to trading volume, other factors such as the width of bid-ask spreads, market depth, and order book data can provide further insight into the liquidity of a stock. So, while volume is an important factor to consider when evaluating liquidity, it should not be relied upon exclusively.




Why is liquidity important?
If markets are not liquid, it becomes difficult to sell or convert assets or securities into cash. You may, for instance, own a very rare and valuable family heirloom appraised at $150,000. However, if there is not a market (i.e., no buyers) for your object, then it is irrelevant since nobody will pay anywhere close to its appraised value—it is very illiquid. It may even require hiring an auction house to act as a broker and track down potentially interested parties, which will take time and incur costs.Liquid assets, however, can be easily and quickly sold for their full value and with little cost. Companies also must hold enough liquid assets to cover their short-term obligations like bills or payroll; otherwise, they could face a liquidity crisis, which could lead to bankruptcy.




What are the most liquid assets or securities?
Cash is the most liquid asset, followed by cash equivalents, which are things like money market accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs), or time deposits. Marketable securities, such as stocks and bonds listed on exchanges, are often very liquid and can be sold quickly via a broker. Gold coins and certain collectibles may also be readily sold for cash.




What are some illiquid assets or securities?
Securities that are traded over the counter (OTC), such as certain complex derivatives, are often quite illiquid. For individuals, a home, a time-share, or a car are all somewhat illiquid in that it may take several weeks to months to find a buyer, and several more weeks to finalize the transaction and receive payment. Moreover, broker fees tend to be quite large (e.g., 5% to 7% on average for a real estate agent).




Why are some stocks more liquid than others?
The most liquid stocks tend to be those with a great deal of interest from various market actors and a lot of daily transaction volume. Such stocks will also attract a larger number of market makers who maintain a tighter two-sided market.Illiquid stocks have wider bid-ask spreads and less market depth. These names tend to be lesser known, have lower trading volume, and often have lower market value and volatility. Thus, the stock for a large multinational bank will tend to be more liquid than that of a small regional bank.


   The Bottom Line  

Liquidity is the ease of converting an asset or security into cash, with cash itself the most liquid asset of all. Other liquid assets include stocks, bonds, and other exchange-traded securities. Tangible items tend to be less liquid, meaning that it can take more time, effort, and cost to sell them (e.g., a home).



Market liquidity and accounting liquidity are two main classifications of liquidity, and financial analysts use various ratios, such as the current ratio, quick ratio, acid-test ratio, and cash ratio, to measure it. Having liquidity is important for individuals and firms to pay off their short-term debts and obligations and avoid a liquidity crisis.
What Is a Liquidity Adjustment Facility?  

A liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) is a tool used in monetary policy, primarily by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that allows banks to borrow money through repurchase agreements (repos) or to make loans to the RBI through reverse repo agreements. This arrangement is effective in managing liquidity pressures and assuring basic stability in the financial markets. In the United States, the Federal Reserve transacts repos and reverse repos under its open market operations.



The RBI introduced the LAF as a result of the Narasimham Committee on Banking Sector Reforms (1998). 





Key Takeaways

A liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) is a monetary policy tool used in India by the Reserve Bank of India or RBI.The RBI introduced the LAF as part of the outcome of the Narasimham Committee on Banking Sector Reforms of 1998. LAF's help the RBI manage liquidity and provide economic stability by offering banks the opportunity to borrow money through repurchase agreements or repos or to make loans to the RBI via reverse repo agreements.LAF’s can manage inflation in the economy by increasing and reducing the money supply.


   Basics of a Liquidity Adjustment Facility  

Liquidity adjustment facilities are used to aid banks in resolving any short-term cash shortages during periods of economic instability or from any other form of stress caused by forces beyond their control. Various banks use eligible securities as collateral through a repo agreement and use the funds to alleviate their short-term requirements, thus remaining stable.



The facilities are implemented on a day-to-day basis as banks and other financial institutions ensure they have enough capital in the overnight market. The transacting of liquidity adjustment facilities takes place via an auction at a set time of the day. An entity wishing to raise capital to fulfill a shortfall engages in repo agreements, while one with excess capital does the opposite, and executes a reverse repo. 


   Liquidity Adjustment Facility and the Economy  

The RBI can use the liquidity adjustment facility to manage high levels of inflation. It does so by increasing the repo rate, which raises the cost of servicing debt. This, in turn, reduces investment and money supply in India’s economy.



Conversely, if the RBI is trying to stimulate the economy after a period of slow economic growth, it can lower the repo rate to encourage businesses to borrow, thus increasing the money supply. Recently, the RBI cut the repo rate by 40 basis points in May 2020 to 4.00% from 4.40% previously, due to weak economic activity, benign inflation, and slower global growth. At the same time, the reverse repo rate was cut to 3.35% from 3.75%, also a decline of 40 basis points.


   Liquidity Adjustment Facility Example  

Let’s assume a bank has a short-term cash shortage due to a recession gripping the Indian economy. The bank would use the RBI's liquidity adjustment facility by executing a repo agreement by selling government securities to the RBI in return for a loan with an agreement to repurchase those securities back. For example, say the bank needs a one-day loan for 50,000,000 Indian rupees and executes a repo agreement at 6.25%. The bank's payable interest on the loan is ₹8,561.64 (₹50,000,000 x 6.25% / 365).



Now let’s suppose the economy is expanding and a bank has excess cash on hand. In this case, the bank would execute a reverse repo agreement by making a loan to the RBI in exchange for government securities, in which it agrees to repurchase those securities. For example, the bank may have ₹25,000,000 available to loan the RBI and decides to execute a one-day reverse repo agreement at 6%. The bank would receive ₹4109.59 in interest from the RBI (₹25,000,000 x 6% / 365).
What Is the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)?  

The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) refers to the proportion of highly liquid assets held by financial institutions, to ensure their ongoing ability to meet short-term obligations. This ratio is essentially a generic stress test that aims to anticipate market-wide shocks and make sure that financial institutions possess suitable capital preservation, to ride out any short-term liquidity disruptions, that may plague the market.





Key Takeaways

The LCR is a requirement under Basel III whereby banks are required to hold an amount of high-quality liquid assets that's enough to fund cash outflows for 30 days.The LCR is a stress test that aims to anticipate market-wide shocks and make sure that financial institutions possess suitable capital preservation to ride out any short-term liquidity disruptions.Of course, we won't know until the next financial crisis if the LCR provides enough of a financial cushion for banks or if it's insufficient.


   Understanding the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)  

The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) is a chief takeaway from the Basel Accord, which is a series of regulations developed by The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The BCBS is a group of 45 representatives from major global financial centers. One of the goals of the BCBS was to mandate banks to hold a specific level of highly liquid assets and maintain certain levels of fiscal solvency to discourage them from lending high levels of short-term debt.



As a result, banks are required to hold an amount of high-quality liquid assets that's enough to fund cash outflows for 30 days. High-quality liquid assets include only those with a high potential to be converted easily and quickly into cash. The three categories of liquid assets with decreasing levels of quality are level 1, level 2A, and level 2B.



Thirty days was chosen because it was believed that in a financial crisis, a response to rescue the financial system from governments and central banks would typically occur within 30 days. In other words, the 30 day period allows banks to have a cushion of cash in the event of a run on banks during a financial crisis. The 30-day requirement under the LCR also provides central banks such as the Federal Reserve Bank time to step in and implement corrective measures to stabilize the financial system.



Under Basel III, level 1 assets are not discounted when calculating the LCR, while level 2A and level 2B assets have a 15% and a 25-50% discount, respectively. Level 1 assets include Federal Reserve bank balances, foreign resources that can be withdrawn quickly, securities issued or guaranteed by specific sovereign entities, and U.S. government-issued or guaranteed securities.



Level 2A assets include securities issued or guaranteed by specific multilateral development banks or sovereign entities, and securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. Level 2B assets include publicly traded common stock and investment-grade corporate debt securities issued by non-financial sector corporations.



The chief takeaway that Basel III expects banks to glean from the formula is the expectation to achieve a leverage ratio in excess of 3%. To conform to the requirement, the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States fixed the leverage ratio at 5% for insured bank holding companies, and 6% for systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs). However, most banks will attempt to maintain a higher capital to cushion themselves from financial distress, even if it means issuing fewer loans to borrowers.


   How to Calculate the LCR  

Calculating LCR is as follows:








L


C


R


=



High quality liquid asset amount (HQLA)


Total net cash flow amount




LCR = \frac{\text{High quality liquid asset amount (HQLA)}}{\text{Total net cash flow amount}}


LCR=Total net cash flow amountHigh quality liquid asset amount (HQLA)​



The LCR is calculated by dividing a bank's high-quality liquid assets by its total net cash flows, over a 30-day stress period.The high-quality liquid assets include only those with a high potential to be converted easily and quickly into cash.The three categories of liquid assets with decreasing levels of quality are level 1, level 2A, and level 2B.



For example, let’s assume bank ABC has high-quality liquid assets worth $55 million and $35 million in anticipated net cash flows, over a 30-day stress period:



The LCR is calculated by $55 million / $35 million.Bank ABC's LCR is 1.57, or 157%, which meets the requirement under Basel III.


   Implementation of the LCR  

The LCR was proposed in 2010 with revisions and final approval in 2014. The full 100% minimum was not required until 2019.



The liquidity coverage ratio applies to all banking institutions that have more than $250 billion in total consolidated assets or more than $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. Such banks—often referred to as SIFI—are required to maintain a 100% LCR, which means holding an amount of highly liquid assets that are equal or greater than its net cash flow, over a 30-day stress period. Highly liquid assets can include cash, Treasury bonds, or corporate debt.


   LCR vs. Other Liquidity Ratios  

Liquidity ratios are a class of financial metrics used to determine a company's ability to pay off current debt obligations without raising external capital. Liquidity ratios measure a company's ability to pay debt obligations and its margin of safety through the calculation of metrics including the current ratio, quick ratio, and operating cash flow ratio. Current liabilities are analyzed in relation to liquid assets to evaluate the coverage of short-term debts in an emergency.



The liquidity coverage ratio is the requirement whereby banks must hold an amount of high-quality liquid assets that's enough to fund cash outflows for 30 days.﻿﻿ Liquidity ratios are similar to the LCR in that they measure a company's ability to meet its short-term financial obligations.


   Limitations of the LCR  

A limitation of the LCR is that it requires banks to hold more cash and might lead to fewer loans issued to consumers and businesses. One could argue that if banks issue a fewer number of loans, it could lead to slower economic growth since companies that need access to debt to fund their operations and expansion would not have access to capital.



On the other hand, another limitation is that we won't know until the next financial crisis if the LCR provides enough of a financial cushion for banks or if it's insufficient to fund cash outflows for 30 days. The LCR is a stress test that aims to make sure that financial institutions have sufficient capital during short-term liquidity disruptions.




What Are the Basel Accords?
The Basel Accords are a series of three sequential banking regulation agreements (Basel I, II, and III) set by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (BCBS). The BCBS is a group of 45 representatives from major global financial centers. The Committee provides recommendations on banking and financial regulations, specifically, concerning capital risk, market risk, and operational risk. The accords ensure that financial institutions have enough capital on account to absorb unexpected losses. The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) is a chief takeaway from the Basel Accord. 




What Are Some Limitations of the LCR?
A limitation of the LCR is that it requires banks to hold more cash and might lead to fewer loans issued to consumers and businesses which could result in slower economic growth. Another one is that it won't be known until the next financial crisis if the LCR provides banks with enough of a financial cushion to survive before governments and central banks could come to their rescue.




What Is the LCR for a SIFI?
A systemically important financial institution (SIFI) is a bank, insurance, or other financial institution that U.S. federal regulators determine would pose a serious risk to the economy if it were to collapse. Currently, these are defined as banking institutions that have more than $250 billion in total consolidated assets or more than $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. They are required to maintain a 100% LCR, which means holding an amount of highly liquid assets that are equal or greater than its net cash flow, over a 30-day stress period.
What Is a Liquidity Crisis?  

A liquidity crisis is a financial situation characterized by a lack of cash or easily-convertible-to-cash assets on hand across many businesses or financial institutions simultaneously.



In a liquidity crisis, liquidity problems at individual institutions lead to an acute increase in demand and decrease in supply of liquidity, and the resulting lack of available liquidity can lead to widespread defaults and even bankruptcies. 





Key Takeaways

A liquidity crisis is a simultaneous increase in demand and decrease in supply of liquidity across many financial institutions or other businesses. At the root of a liquidity crisis are widespread maturity mismatching among banks and other businesses and a resulting lack of cash and other liquid assets when they are needed.Liquidity crises can be triggered by large, negative economic shocks or by normal cyclical changes in the economy.


   Understanding a Liquidity Crisis  

Maturity mismatching, between assets and liabilities, as well as a resulting lack of properly timed cash flow, are typically at the root of a liquidity crisis. Liquidity problems can occur at a single institution, but a true liquidity crisis usually refers to a simultaneous lack of liquidity across many institutions or an entire financial system.


   Single Business Liquidity Problem  

When an otherwise solvent business does not have the liquid assets—in cash or other highly marketable assets—necessary to meet its short-term obligations it faces a liquidity problem. Obligations can include repaying loans, paying its ongoing operational bills, and paying its employees.



These business may have enough value in total assets to meet all these in the long-run, but if it does not have enough cash to pay them as they come due, then it will default and could eventually enter bankruptcy as creditors demand repayment. The root of the problem is usually a mismatch between the maturities of investments the business has made and the liabilities the business has incurred in order to finance its investments.



This produces a cash flow problem, where the anticipated revenue from the business' various projects does not arrive soon enough or in sufficient volume to make payments toward the corresponding financing.



For businesses, this type of cash flow problem can be entirely avoided by the business choosing investment projects whose expected revenue matches the repayment plans for any related financing well enough to avoid any missed payments.



Alternatively, the business can try to match maturities on an ongoing basis by taking on additional short-term debt from lenders or maintaining a sufficient self-financed reserve of liquid assets on hand (in effect relying on equity holders) to make payments as they come due. Many businesses do this by relying on short-term loans to meet business needs. Often this financing is structured for less than a year and can help a company meet payroll and other demands.



If a business investments and debt are mismatched in maturity, additional short-term financing is not available, and self-financed reserves are not sufficient, then the business will either need to sell other assets to generate cash, known as liquidating assets, or face default. When the company faces a shortage of liquidity, and if the liquidity problem cannot not solved by liquidating sufficient assets to meet its obligations, the company must declare bankruptcy.



Banks and financial institutions are particularly vulnerable to these kind of liquidity problems because much of their revenue is generated by lending long-term on loans for home mortgages or capital investments and borrowing short-term from depositors accounts. Maturity mismatching is a normal and inherent part of the business model of most financial institutions, and so they are usually in a continual position of needing to secure funds to meet immediate obligations, either through additional short-term debt, self-financed reserves, or liquidating long-term assets.


   Liquidity Crisis  

Individual financial institutions are not the only ones who can have a liquidity problem. When many financial institutions experience a simultaneous shortage of liquidity and draw down their self-financed reserves, seek additional short-term debt from credit markets, or try to sell-off assets to generate cash, a liquidity crisis can occur. Interest rates rise, minimum required reserve limits become a binding constraint, and assets fall in value or become unsaleable as everyone tries to sell at once.



The acute need for liquidity across institutions becomes a mutually self-reinforcing positive feedback loop that can spread to impact institutions and businesses that were not initially facing any liquidity problem on their own. 



Entire countries—and their economies—can become engulfed in this situation. For the economy as a whole, a liquidity crisis means that the two main sources of liquidity in the economy—banks loans and the commercial paper market—become suddenly scarce. Banks reduce the number of loans they make or stop making loans altogether.



Because so many non-financial companies rely on these loans to meet their short-term obligations, this lack of lending has a ripple effect throughout the economy. In a trickle-down effect, the lack of funds impacts a plethora of companies, which in turn affects individuals employed by those firms.



A liquidity crisis can unfold in in response to a specific economic shock or as a feature of a normal business cycle. For example, during the financial crisis of the Great Recession, many banks and non-bank institutions had significant portions of their cash come from short-term funds that were put towards financing long-term mortgages. When short-term interest rates rose and real estate prices collapsed, such arrangements forced a liquidity crisis.



A negative shock to economic expectations might drive the deposit holders with a bank or banks to make sudden, large withdrawals, if not their entire accounts. This may be due to concerns about the stability of the specific institution or broader economic influences. The account holder may see a need to have cash in hand immediately, perhaps if widespread economic declines are feared. Such activity can leave banks deficient in cash and unable to cover all registered accounts.
What Is a Liquidity Event?  

A liquidity event is an acquisition, merger, initial public offering (IPO), or other action that allows founders and early investors in a company to cash out some or all of their ownership shares.



A liquidity event is considered an exit strategy for an illiquid investment—that is, for equity that has little or no market to trade on. Founders of a firm push toward a liquidity event and investors (such as venture capital (VC) firms, angel investors, or private equity firms) expect one within a reasonable amount of time after initially investing their capital



The most common liquidity events are IP0s and direct acquisitions by other companies or private equity firms.





Key Takeaways

A liquidity event allows company founders and early investors to convert illiquid equity into cash through events such as an IPO or direct acquisition by another company.Investors who back a start-up expect to be able to take their money out within a reasonable amount of time.While most investors favor liquidity events, founders may not be so eager if the event means diluting their holdings or losing control of their company.


   Understanding Liquidity Events  

A liquidity event is most commonly associated with founders and venture capital firms cashing in on their seed or early-round investments. The first handful of employees of the companies also stand to reap the windfall of their company going public or being bought out by another company that wants their product or service.



In the case of an acquisition, the founders and employees of the firm are usually retained. There would be an initial liquidity event and then additional compensation in shares or cash as they serve out their contracted terms with their new owners.



It must be noted that in some cases a liquidity event is not necessarily the goal of founders of a firm, though it certainly is for investors. Founders may not be motivated by the riches that a liquidity event bestows. Some founders have actively resisted calls of early investors to take a company public out of fear of losing control or ruining a good thing. In most cases, the resistance is a temporary phase.






Founders of companies are not always eager to take their firm pubic, in some cases due to fear of losing control.


   Special Considerations  

Often, the timeline for an IPO is under the control of the company. However, if a company has more than $10 million in assets and more than 2,000 investors (or 500 shareholders who are not accredited investors), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires it to file financial reports for public consumption. This is known as the 2,000 investor limit.



Many believe that this rule was one of the reasons that Google (now Alphabet) filed to go public when it did, as the company was going to be forced to disclose its financial data to the SEC anyway.


   Example of a Liquidity Event  

Mark Zuckerberg, his group of cofounders, and the venture capital firms and individuals listed as major shareholders in Facebook's pre-IPO Form S-1 filing in 2012 had a lot of thumbs up for its liquidity event. The company raised $16 billion in the IPO and began its first day as a publicly traded company with a valuation of $107 billion. Zuckerberg, who owned 28.2% of Facebook before the IPO, suddenly found that his net worth was approximately $19.1 billion. This was quite a liquidity event for the then 27-year-old.
What Is Liquidity Preference Theory?  

Liquidity Preference Theory is a model that suggests that an investor should demand a higher interest rate or premium on securities with long-term maturities that carry greater risk because, all other factors being equal, investors prefer cash or other highly liquid holdings.





Key Takeaways

Liquidity Preference Theory refers to money demand as measured through liquidity.John Maynard Keynes mentioned the concept in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money (1936), discussing the connection between interest rates and supply-demand.In real-world terms, the more quickly an asset can be converted into currency, the more liquid it becomes.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   How Does Liquidity Preference Theory Work?  

Liquidity Preference Theory suggests that investors demand progressively higher premiums on medium and long-term securities as opposed to short-term securities. According to the theory, which was developed by John Maynard Keynes in support of his idea that the demand for liquidity holds speculative power, liquid investments are easier to cash in for full value.



Cash is commonly accepted as the most liquid asset. According to the liquidity preference theory, interest rates on short-term securities are lower because investors are not sacrificing liquidity for greater time frames than medium or longer-term securities. 


   Special Considerations  

Keynes introduced Liquidity Preference Theory in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money. Keynes describes the theory in terms of three motives that determine the demand for liquidity:



The transactions motive states that individuals have a preference for liquidity to guarantee having sufficient cash on hand for basic day-to-day needs. In other words, stakeholders have a high demand for liquidity to cover their short-term obligations, such as buying groceries and paying the rent or mortgage. Higher costs of living mean a higher demand for cash/liquidity to meet those day-to-day needs. The precautionary motive relates to an individual's preference for additional liquidity if an unexpected problem or cost arises that requires a substantial outlay of cash. These events include unforeseen costs like house or car repairs.Stakeholders may also have a speculative motive. When interest rates are low, demand for cash is high and they may prefer to hold assets until interest rates rise. The speculative motive refers to an investor's reluctance to tying up investment capital for fear of missing out on a better opportunity in the future.



When higher interest rates are offered, investors give up liquidity in exchange for higher rates. As an example, if interest rates are rising and bond prices are falling, an investor may sell their low paying bonds and buy higher-paying bonds or hold onto the cash and wait for an even better rate of return.






   Example of Liquidity Preference Theory  

A three-year Treasury note might pay a 2% interest rate, a 10-year treasury note might pay a 4% interest rate and a 30-year treasury bond might pay a 6% interest rate. For the investor to sacrifice liquidity, they must receive a higher rate of return in exchange for agreeing to have the cash tied up for a longer period of time.
What Is a Liquidity Premium?  

A liquidity premium is any form of additional compensation that is required to encourage investment in assets that cannot be easily and efficiently converted into cash at fair market value.



For example, a long-term bond will carry a higher interest rate than a short-term bond because it is relatively illiquid. The higher return is the liquidity premium offered to the investor as compensation for the additional risk.





Key Takeaways

The liquidity premium is a form of extra compensation that is built into the return of an asset that cannot be cashed in easily or quickly.Illiquidity is seen as a form of investment risk. At the very least it can be an opportunity risk if better investments emerge while the money is tied up.The more illiquid the investment, the greater the liquidity premium that will be required.


   Understanding the Liquidity Premium  

Investors in illiquid assets require compensation for the added risk of investing their money in assets that may not be able to be sold for an extended period, especially if their values can fluctuate with the markets in the interim.



Liquid investments are assets that can be easily and quickly converted into cash at their fair market value. A savings account or a short-term Treasury bond are examples. The returns may be low, but the money is safe and can be accessed at any time for its fair value. Many bonds are relatively liquid, as they are easily convertible or may be sold on an active secondary market.



Illiquid investments have the opposite characteristics. They cannot be easily sold at their fair market value.



Illiquidity is seen as a form of risk. The investor's money is tied up.


  Liquid and Illiquid Investments  

Illiquid investments can take many forms. These investments include certificates of deposit (CDs), certain loans, annuities, and other investment assets that the purchaser is required to hold for a specified period of time. The investments cannot be liquidated or withdrawn early without a penalty.



Other assets are deemed illiquid because they have no active secondary market that can be used to realize their fair market value.



The liquidity premium is built into the return on these types of investments to compensate for the risk the investor takes in locking up funds for a long period of time.



In general, investors who choose to invest in such illiquid investments need to be rewarded for the added risks that a lack of liquidity poses. Investors who have the capital to invest in longer-term investments can benefit from the liquidity premium earned from these investments.






The terms illiquidity premium and liquidity premium are used interchangeably. Both mean that an investor is getting an incentive for a longer-term investment.


   Examples of Liquidity Premiums  

The shape of the yield curve can further illustrate the liquidity premium demanded from investors for longer-term investments. In a balanced economic environment, longer-term investments require a higher rate of return than shorter-term investments—thus, the upward sloping shape of the yield curve.



As another example, assume an investor is looking to purchase one of two corporate bonds that have the same coupon payments and time to maturity. Considering one of these bonds is traded on a public exchange while the other is not, the investor is not willing to pay as much for the nonpublic bond. This means a higher premium at maturity. The difference in the relative prices and yields is the liquidity premium.
What Are Liquidity Ratios?  

Liquidity ratios are an important class of financial metrics used to determine a debtor's ability to pay off current debt obligations without raising external capital. Liquidity ratios measure a company's ability to pay debt obligations and its margin of safety through the calculation of metrics including the current ratio, quick ratio, and operating cash flow ratio.





Key Takeaways

Liquidity ratios are an important class of financial metrics used to determine a debtor's ability to pay off current debt obligations without raising external capital.Common liquidity ratios include the quick ratio, current ratio, and days sales outstanding.Liquidity ratios determine a company's ability to cover short-term obligations and cash flows, while solvency ratios are concerned with a longer-term ability to pay ongoing debts.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Liquidity Ratios  

Liquidity is the ability to convert assets into cash quickly and cheaply. Liquidity ratios are most useful when they are used in comparative form. This analysis may be internal or external.



For example, internal analysis regarding liquidity ratios involves using multiple accounting periods that are reported using the same accounting methods. Comparing previous periods to current operations allows analysts to track changes in the business. In general, a higher liquidity ratio shows a company is more liquid and has better coverage of outstanding debts.



Alternatively, external analysis involves comparing the liquidity ratios of one company to another or an entire industry. This information is useful to compare the company's strategic positioning to its competitors when establishing benchmark goals. Liquidity ratio analysis may not be as effective when looking across industries as various businesses require different financing structures. Liquidity ratio analysis is less effective for comparing businesses of different sizes in different geographical locations.






With liquidity ratios, current liabilities are most often compared to liquid assets to evaluate the ability to cover short-term debts and obligations in case of an emergency.


   Types of Liquidity Ratios  
  The Current Ratio  

The current ratio measures a company's ability to pay off its current liabilities (payable within one year) with its total current assets such as cash, accounts receivable, and inventories. The higher the ratio, the better the company's liquidity position:



﻿




Current Ratio


=




Current Assets




Current Liabilities





\text{Current Ratio} = \frac{\text{Current Assets}}{\text{Current Liabilities}}


Current Ratio=Current LiabilitiesCurrent Assets​﻿


  The Quick Ratio  

The quick ratio measures a company's ability to meet its short-term obligations with its most liquid assets and therefore excludes inventories from its current assets. It is also known as the acid-test ratio:


















Quick ratio


=




C


+


M


S


+


A


R




C


L


















where:
















C


=


cash & cash equivalents
















M


S


=


marketable securities
















A


R


=


accounts receivable
















C


L


=


current liabilities







\begin{aligned} &\text{Quick ratio} = \frac{C + MS + AR}{CL} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &C=\text{cash \& cash equivalents}\\ &MS=\text{marketable securities}\\ &AR=\text{accounts receivable}\\ &CL=\text{current liabilities}\\ \end{aligned}


​Quick ratio=CLC+MS+AR​where:C=cash & cash equivalentsMS=marketable securitiesAR=accounts receivableCL=current liabilities​



Another way to express this is:








Quick ratio


=




(


Current assets - inventory - prepaid expenses


)



Current liabilities




\text{Quick ratio} = \frac{(\text{Current assets - inventory - prepaid expenses})}{\text{Current liabilities}}


Quick ratio=Current liabilities(Current assets - inventory - prepaid expenses)​


  Days Sales Outstanding (DSO)  

Days sales outstanding (DSO) refers to the average number of days it takes a company to collect payment after it makes a sale. A high DSO means that a company is taking unduly long to collect payment and is tying up capital in receivables. DSOs are generally calculated on a quarterly or annual basis:








DSO


=



Average accounts receivable


Revenue per day




\text{DSO} = \frac{\text{Average accounts receivable}}{\text{Revenue per day}}


DSO=Revenue per dayAverage accounts receivable​


   Special Considerations  

A liquidity crisis can arise even at healthy companies if circumstances arise that make it difficult for them to meet short-term obligations such as repaying their loans and paying their employees. The best example of such a far-reaching liquidity catastrophe in recent memory is the global credit crunch of 2007-09. Commercial paper—short-term debt that is issued by large companies to finance current assets and pay off current liabilities—played a central role in this financial crisis.



A near-total freeze in the $2 trillion U.S. commercial paper market made it exceedingly difficult for even the most solvent companies to raise short-term funds at that time and hastened the demise of giant corporations such as Lehman Brothers and General Motors (GM).



But unless the financial system is in a credit crunch, a company-specific liquidity crisis can be resolved relatively easily with a liquidity injection (as long as the company is solvent). This is because the company can pledge some assets if it is required to raise cash to tide over the liquidity squeeze. This route may not be available for a company that is technically insolvent because a liquidity crisis would exacerbate its financial situation and force it into bankruptcy.


   Solvency Ratios vs. Liquidity Ratios  

In contrast to liquidity ratios, solvency ratios measure a company's ability to meet its total financial obligations and long-term debts. Solvency relates to a company's overall ability to pay debt obligations and continue business operations, while liquidity focuses more on current or short-term financial accounts.



A company must have more total assets than total liabilities to be solvent; a company must have more current assets than current liabilities to be liquid. Although solvency does not relate directly to liquidity, liquidity ratios present a preliminary expectation regarding a company's solvency.



The solvency ratio is calculated by dividing a company's net income and depreciation by its short-term and long-term liabilities. This indicates whether a company's net income can cover its total liabilities. Generally, a company with a higher solvency ratio is considered to be a more favorable investment.


   Examples Using Liquidity Ratios  

Let's use a couple of these liquidity ratios to demonstrate their effectiveness in assessing a company's financial condition.



Consider two hypothetical companies—Liquids Inc. and Solvents Co.—with the following assets and liabilities on their balance sheets (figures in millions of dollars). We assume that both companies operate in the same manufacturing sector (i.e., industrial glues and solvents).










Balance Sheets for Liquids Inc. and Solvents Co.




(in millions of dollars)
Liquids Inc.
Solvents Co.


Cash & Cash Equivalents
$5
$1


Marketable Securities
$5
$2


Accounts Receivable
$10
$2


Inventories
$10
$5


Current Assets (a)
$30
$10


Plant and Equipment (b)
$25
$65


Intangible Assets (c)
$20
$0


Total Assets (a + b + c)
$75
$75


Current Liabilities* (d)
$10
$25


Long-Term Debt (e)
$50
$10


Total Liabilities (d + e)
$60
$35


Shareholders' Equity
$15
$40






Note that in our example, we will assume that current liabilities only consist of accounts payable and other liabilities, with no short-term debt.


  Liquids, Inc.  

Current ratio = $30 / $10 = 3.0
Quick ratio = ($30 – $10) / $10 = 2.0
Debt to equity = $50 / $15 = 3.33
Debt to assets = $50 / $75 = 0.67


  Solvents, Co.  

Current ratio = $10 / $25 = 0.40Quick ratio = ($10 – $5) / $25 = 0.20Debt to equity = $10 / $40 = 0.25Debt to assets = $10 / $75 = 0.13



We can draw several conclusions about the financial condition of these two companies from these ratios.



Liquids, Inc. has a high degree of liquidity. Based on its current ratio, it has $3 of current assets for every dollar of current liabilities. Its quick ratio points to adequate liquidity even after excluding inventories, with $2 in assets that can be converted rapidly to cash for every dollar of current liabilities.



However, financial leverage based on its solvency ratios appears quite high. Debt exceeds equity by more than three times, while two-thirds of assets have been financed by debt. Note as well that close to half of non-current assets consist of intangible assets (such as goodwill and patents). As a result, the ratio of debt to tangible assets—calculated as ($50/$55)—is 0.91, which means that over 90% of tangible assets (plant, equipment, and inventories, etc.) have been financed by borrowing. To summarize, Liquids, Inc. has a comfortable liquidity position, but it has a dangerously high degree of leverage.



Solvents, Co. is in a different position. The company's current ratio of 0.4 indicates an inadequate degree of liquidity, with only $0.40 of current assets available to cover every $1 of current liabilities. The quick ratio suggests an even more dire liquidity position, with only $0.20 of liquid assets for every $1 of current liabilities.



Financial leverage, however, appears to be at comfortable levels, with debt at only 25% of equity and only 13% of assets financed by debt. Even better, the company's asset base consists wholly of tangible assets, which means that Solvents, Co.'s ratio of debt to tangible assets is about one-seventh that of Liquids, Inc. (approximately 13% vs. 91%). Overall, Solvents, Co. is in a dangerous liquidity situation, but it has a comfortable debt position.




What Is Liquidity and Why Is It Important for Firms?
Liquidity refers to how easily or efficiently cash can be obtained to pay bills and other short-term obligations. Assets that can be readily sold, like stocks and bonds, are also considered to be liquid (although cash is, of course, the most liquid asset of all). Businesses need enough liquidity on hand to cover their bills and obligations so that they can pay vendors, keep up with payroll, and keep their operations going day-in and day out.




How Does Liquidity Differ From Solvency?
Liquidity refers to the ability to cover short-term obligations. Solvency, on the other hand, is a firm's ability to pay long-term obligations. For a firm, this will often include being able to repay interest and principal on debts (such as bonds) or long-term leases.




Why Are There Several Liquidity Ratios?
Fundamentally, all liquidity ratios measure a firm's ability to cover short-term obligations by dividing current assets by current liabilities (CL). The cash ratio looks at only the cash on hand divided by CL, while the quick ratio adds in cash equivalents (like money market holdings) as well as marketable securities and accounts receivable. The current ratio includes all current assets.




What Happens If Ratios Show a Firm Is Not Liquid?
In this case, a liquidity crisis can arise even at healthy companies—if circumstances arise that make it difficult to meet short-term obligations, such as repaying their loans and paying their employees or suppliers. One example of a far-reaching liquidity crisis from recent history is the global credit crunch of 2007-09, where many companies found themselves unable to secure short-term financing to pay their immediate obligations.
What Is Liquidity Risk?  

Liquidity risk is the risk that a company or individual will not have enough cash to meet its financial obligations (pay its debts) on time. Liquidity refers to the ease at which an asset can be converted into cash without negatively affecting its market price; the risk arises when a company cannot buy or sell an investment in exchange for cash fast enough to pay its debts.





Key Takeaways

Liquidity is the ability of a firm, company, or even an individual to pay its debts without suffering catastrophic losses.Investors, managers, and creditors use liquidity measurement ratios when deciding the level of risk within an organization.If an individual investor, business, or financial institution cannot meet its short-term debt obligations, it is experiencing liquidity risk.


   Understanding Liquidity Risk  

Common knowledge is that the smaller the size of the security or its issuer, the larger the liquidity risk. Drops in the value of stocks and other securities motivated many investors to sell their holdings at any price in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, as well as during the 2007 to 2008 global credit crisis. This rush to the exits caused widening bid-ask spreads and large price declines, which further contributed to market illiquidity.



Liquidity risk occurs when an individual investor, business, or financial institution cannot meet its short-term debt obligations. The investor or entity might be unable to convert an asset into cash without giving up capital and income due to a lack of buyers or an inefficient market.


   Liquidity Risk in Financial Institutions  

Financial institutions depend upon borrowed money to a considerable extent, so they're commonly scrutinized to determine whether they can meet their debt obligations without realizing great losses, which could be catastrophic. Institutions, therefore, face strict compliance requirements and stress tests to measure their financial stability.



The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) released a proposal in April 2016 that created a net stable funding ratio. It was intended to help increase banks’ liquidity during periods of financial stress. The ratio indicates whether banks own enough high-quality assets that can be easily converted into cash within one year. Banks rely less on short-term funding, which tends to be more volatile.



During the 2008 financial crisis, many big banks failed or faced insolvency issues due to liquidity problems. The FDIC ratio is in line with the international Basel standard, created in 2015, and it reduces banks’ vulnerability in the event of another financial crisis.


   Liquidity Risk in Companies  

Investors, managers, and creditors use liquidity measurement ratios when deciding the level of risk within an organization. They often compare short-term liabilities and the liquid assets listed on a company’s financial statements.



If a business has too much liquidity risk, it must sell its assets, bring in additional revenue, or find another way to reduce the discrepancy between available cash and its debt obligations.


   Example of Liquidity Risk  

A $500,000 home might have no buyer when the real estate market is down, but the home might sell above its listed price when the market improves. The owners might sell the home for less and lose money in the transaction if they need cash quickly so must sell while the market is down.



Investors should consider whether they can convert their short-term debt obligations into cash before investing in long-term illiquid assets to hedge against liquidity risk.
What Is a Liquidity Trap?  

A liquidity trap is an adverse economic situation that can occur when consumers and investors hoard cash rather than spending or investing it even when interest rates are low, stymying efforts by economic policymakers to stimulate economic growth.



The term was first used by economist John Maynard Keynes, who defined a liquidity trap as a condition that can occur when interest rates fall so low that most people prefer to let cash sit rather than put money into bonds and other debt instruments. The effect, Keynes said, is to leave monetary policymakers powerless to stimulate growth by increasing the money supply or lowering the interest rate further.



A liquidity trap may develop when consumers and investors keep their cash in checking and savings accounts because they believe interest rates will soon rise. That would make bond prices fall, and make them a less attractive option.



Since Keynes' day, the term liquidity trap has been used more broadly to describe a condition of slow economic growth caused by widespread cash hoarding due to concern about a negative event that may be coming.





Key Takeaways

Central banks like the Federal Reserve force interest rates lower in order to encourage spending and increase economic activity.A liquidity trap occurs when interest rates are very low, yet consumers prefer to hoard cash rather than spend or invest their money in higher-yielding bonds or other investments.In such cases, the main tool used by the central bank has failed to be effective.A leading cause of this syndrome is fear of economic troubles ahead, whether personal or general.The effects of a liquidity trap aren't limited to the bond market. Consumers spend less on goods and services as well.












Investopedia / Danie Drankwalter


   Understanding a Liquidity Trap  

High consumer savings levels, often spurred by the belief that a negative economic event is on the horizon, can cause monetary policy to be generally ineffective.



If interest rates are already near or at zero, the central bank cannot cut the rates. If it increases the money supply, it would not be effective. People are already saving their cash and need no further encouragement.



The belief in a future negative event is key. When consumers hoard cash and sell bonds, this will drive bond prices down and yields up. Despite rising yields, consumers are not interested in buying bonds as bond prices are falling. They prefer instead to hold cash at a lower yield.



A notable problem in a liquidity trap is that banks have trouble attracting qualified borrowers for loans. This is compounded by the fact that, with interest rates already approaching zero, there is little room for additional incentives to attract well-qualified candidates.



This lack of interest in borrowing can show up across the economy, from business loans to mortgages and car loans.


   Signs of a Liquidity Trap  

One marker of a liquidity trap is low interest rates. Low interest rates affect bondholder behavior, especially when combined with concerns regarding the current financial state of the nation. The end result is the selling of bonds at a level that is harmful to the economy.



Meanwhile, consumers lean towards keeping their money in low-risk savings accounts. When a central bank increases the money supply, it is putting more money into the economy with the reasonable expectation that some of that money will flow into higher-yield assets like bonds.



But in a liquidity trap, it just gets stashed away in cash accounts.



Low interest rates alone do not define a liquidity trap. For the situation to qualify, there must also be a shortage of bondholders wishing to keep their bonds and a limited supply of investors looking to purchase them. Instead, the investors are prioritizing strict cash savings over bond purchases.






If investors are still interested in holding or purchasing bonds at times when interest rates are low, even approaching zero percent, the situation does not qualify as a liquidity trap.


   Characteristics of a Liquidity Trap  

A liquidity trap occurs when consumers, investors, and businesses opt to hoard their cash, making the entire economy resistant to policy actions intended to stimulate economic activity.



The following are the key characteristics of a liquidity trap:



Very low interest rates (at or close to 0%)Economic recessionHigh personal savings levelsLow inflation or deflationIneffective expansionary monetary policy


   Why Liquidity Traps Occur  

Liquidity traps are not common events. Economists have suggested several reasons or precursors that can lead to one.


  Deflation  

Deflation occurs when prices fall and the purchasing power of money increases. It's the opposite of inflation and occurs less often.



Deflation can start when people choose to hold onto their money rather than spend or invest it because they believe that prices will continue to fall. Why purchase a big-ticket item today when it will be cheaper in a month—and even cheaper in two months?



In extreme cases, a deflationary spiral can develop in which price levels keep declining, leading to production cuts, wage cuts, decreased demand, and continued price declines.



During such a feedback loop, a liquidity trap can emerge.


  Balance Sheet Recession  

A balance sheet recession is an economic slowdown that is caused mainly by consumers and businesses choosing to pay down their debts rather than spend or borrow more.



This develops when the level of outstanding debt grows large enough that both borrowers and lenders become concerned that it may not be paid back in full.



Even as interest rates fall, paying down debt is prioritized and new lending and investment grind to a halt.


  Low Demand from Investors  

Companies raise capital by issuing bonds and stock. If there is little demand from investors to invest in them, lower interest rates will not help.



Moreover, both the companies and investors may postpone any action, viewing the investment as risky in a recessionary period of low demand in general.


  Reluctance to Lend  

Banks can become reluctant to lend if they view the general credit landscape as high-risk.



After the 2008 financial crisis, many banks faced liquidity issues as subprime borrowers defaulted in massive numbers. The banks reacted by greatly cutting back on lending in general.



Even with very low interest rates, many consumers and businesses who wanted to borrow money found it difficult to obtain loans as the banks enforced stricter underwriting criteria and shied away from all but the highest-quality borrowers.


   Curing the Liquidity Trap  

Some tried-and-true economic solutions don't work on a liquidity trap. Governments sometimes buy or sell bonds to affect interest rates, but buying bonds in such a negative environment does little, as investors are all too eager to sell them. It becomes difficult to push yields up or down, and harder yet to induce consumers to take advantage of the new rate.



There are a number of ways out of a liquidity trap. None may work entirely on its own but it may help encourage the public to start spending and investing instead of saving.



A rate increase. The Federal Reserve can raise interest rates, which may lead people to invest more of their money, rather than hoard it. During a recession and low inflation, however, this is a highly risky move.
A (big) drop in prices. When there are real bargains out there, people just can't help themselves from spending. The lure of lower prices becomes too attractive, and the savings are used to take advantage of those low prices.
An increase in government spending. Government projects can fuel job growth and spending when companies hold back.
Quantitative easing (QE). The central bank can begin injecting money into the economy to stimulate spending and artificially lower interest rates below zero by buying longer-dated government bonds as well as other securities such as mortgage bonds.
Negative interest rate policy (NIRP). This extraordinary monetary policy tool was used in Europe and Japan after the 2008 financial crisis. Going below zero on nominal interest rates means imposing negative interest rates—crediting interest to borrowers and deducting interest from borrowers.



When consumers are fearful, it is difficult to persuade them to spend rather than save. Thus, these efforts may work on paper but can fail in the real world.


   Real-World Example of a Liquidity Trap  

Starting in the 1990s, Japan faced a liquidity trap. Interest rates continued to fall and yet investment did not rebound. Japan faced deflation through the 1990s, and in 2022 still has a negative interest rate of -0.1%.



The Nikkei 225, the main stock index in Japan, fell from a peak of over 38,000 in December 1989, and in early 2023 remains well below that peak. The index did hit a multi-year high above 29,000 in August 2022 before falling to around 27,500 just a month later.






Liquidity traps were thought to have appeared in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession, especially in the Eurozone.



Interest rates were set to 0% by Japan's central bank but investing, consumption, and inflation all remained subdued for several years following the height of the crisis.


   Criticisms of the Liquidity Trap Theory  

Followers of Ludwig Von Mises, an influential 20th-century Austrian economist who was an advocate of free-market capitalism and a staunch opponent of socialism and interventionism, do not believe in the existence of liquidity traps.



They conclude that, contrary to popular thinking, the threat to major world economies is not the liquidity trap but the government and central bank policies that are designed to counter it.



These policies only further weaken the pool of real savings, thereby undermining prospects for a durable economic recovery and perpetuating the liquidity trap, they argue. They suggest that negative interest rates are unlikely to move major economies away from a liquidity trap if the pool of real savings is in trouble.




Is the U.S. in a Liquidity Trap Now?
As of early 2023, the U.S. economy is experiencing inflation and rising interest rates. These may pose problems but not the kinds that can lead to a liquidity trap.By definition, a liquidity trap exists only during a period of very low interest rates. In other words, the central bank has forced lending rates down to very attractive levels, but consumers, businesses, and investors aren't responding. They're keeping their money in cash.




Has the U.S. Ever Been in a Liquidity Trap?
Maybe, although it's difficult to get two economists to agree on whether a liquidity trap exists or doesn't.Some economists believe that the U.S. briefly fell into a liquidity trap at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic when the stock market fell sharply and there were serious worries about the economy's ability to handle the economic shock. A sudden surge in mid-2020 in the Federal Reserve's M1 number, a reading of the amount of cash on hand in the economy overall, contributed to this conclusion.The Fed responded quickly with quantitative easing measures and increased liquidity and the crisis, if there was one, passed.The U.S. was thought to briefly experience a liquidity trap just following the 2008 financial crisis as interest rates fell effectively to zero while output also dropped. After the housing bubble burst, the banks were unwilling to lend and shocked investors parked their assets in cash.The American economy regained momentum after several rounds of government stimulus spending and central bank quantitative easing.




Is a Liquidity Trap the Same as a Recession?
A liquidity trap can be a contributing cause of a recession. People save their money instead of spending or investing it. Low interest rates fail to entice them to spend more. The usual monetary policymakers' tactic of lowering interest rates can't solve the problem; rates are already at or near zero. This can spiral into a recession as demand for goods and services decline and producers cut production and jobs.




Why Do People Hoard Cash in a Liquidity Trap?
People might sit on cash for several reasons: They may have no confidence that they can earn a higher rate of return by investing. They may believe deflation—or falling prices—is on the horizon, so they're waiting for better prices to emerge, whether they're investing or spending their cash. Or, they may fear economic troubles ahead, in their personal lives or the economy in general.If enough people believe any of the above, their beliefs become a reality.It must be said that some of these people may want to borrow, but find that lenders are reluctant to extend credit at such low interest rates to any but the most qualified borrowers.




Does the Liquidity Trap Exist?
When defined strictly, a liquidity trap renders central bank policies ineffective. However, research by economists at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) suggests that alternative monetary policy tools like quantitative easing and negative interest rates can be effective when less drastic measures fail.A BIS working paper aptly titled "Does the Liquidity Trap Exist?" showed that in the U.S., Japan, and the Eurozone, liquidity traps were easily managed through such alternative measures. The paper argues that "In such a view, the central bank's inability to lower the short-term interest rate is irrelevant, provided that it can ramp up credit supply and if at least some non-financial economic agents are credit-constrained."


   The Bottom Line  

A liquidity trap is a contradictory situation in which interest rates are very low but savings is high. In other words, consumers and businesses are holding onto their cash even with the incentive of interest rates at or close to 0%.



In theory, a liquidity trap is thought to greatly limit the effectiveness of expansionary monetary policy, as interest rates are already at zero. Alternative tools like quantitative easing and a negative interest policy, however, have been shown to be effective.
What Is Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)?  

Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is natural gas that has been converted to a liquid form for the ease and safety of natural gas transport. Natural gas is cooled to approximately -260 F, creating a clear, colorless, and non-toxic liquid that can be transported from areas with a large supply of natural gas to areas that demand more natural gas.



In its liquid state, natural gas takes up 1/600th of the space, meaning that natural gas is shrunk 600 times, making it much easier to ship and store when pipeline transport is not feasible. As world energy consumption increases, experts anticipate that the LNG trade will grow in importance.





Key Takeaways


Liquified natural gas (LNG) is natural gas that has been cooled into a liquid form for ease of transportation.
LNG demand is growing as the world turns towards cleaner sources of energy.
The largest exporters of LNG are Australia and Qatar, with the U.S. expected to overtake them in the next few years.
The largest demand for LNG comes from China.
LNG is being looked at as an alternative source of fuel for automotive vehicles and other uses rather than just a means of transport.



   How Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Works  

Liquefied natural gas is primarily used to transport natural gas from one source to another. Exporters use this method when shipping to different countries and across bodies of water when pipelines aren't available.



There are two main approaches to liquefying natural gas in large quantities



The cascade processThe Linde Method



The cascade process refers to the cooling of one gas by another gas, resulting in a cascading effect. The Linde Method is regenerative cooling, where it is compressed, cooled, and expanded, until it is eventually cooled into a liquid.



Liquefied natural gas is best known as a transport tool, but it is starting to gain mainstream adoption. The automotive industry is evaluating the usefulness of gas as fuel for internal combustion engines in over-the-road trucking, off-road vehicles, marine vessels, and railways.


   Global Demand for Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)  

Despite having one of the world's largest reserves of natural gas, the United States imports a small percentage of its natural gas as liquefied natural gas from France and Trinidad. In fact, as of 2019, the United States was the third-largest exporter of LNG and is expected to become the largest exporter by 2025, surpassing Australia and Qatar.



In 2020, the largest importers of U.S. LNG were South Korea, Japan, and China. Future demand growth will come from Asian countries, as they look toward LNG as a replacement for coal as an energy source.



Once the natural gas is liquefied, it is then stored in special tankers and transported to its point of destination. There is no possibility of LNG exploding if there is any sort of leak or spill. LNG and the gases that it consists of do not explode in an open-air environment. Once LNG is delivered, the natural gas is allowed to expand and convert back to its gaseous form by reheating, a process known as regasification. Once regasified, the natural gas is distributed via pipelines to consumers.















LNG Imports.



Other major exporters of LNG include Indonesia, Nigeria, Russia, and Malaysia. Russia has the world's largest supply of natural gas, followed by Iran and Qatar. As of 2020, Japan is the world's largest importer of natural gas primarily through increases in LNG purchases.















LNG Exports.


   The Future of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)  

Global demand for LNG experienced rapid growth from near-zero levels in 1970 to a meaningful market share today. 51% of that demand came from China, Japan, and South Korea in 2019. The LNG industry is booming as the world aims to break away from traditional and polluting energy sources such as oil and coal to focus on clean energy.



McKinsey and Company estimates LNG demand to increase 3.4% per year till 2035. Gas will be the fastest-growing fossil fuel with an estimated growth rate of 0.9% from 2020 to 2035, and in 2020, the gas demand decreased by 3.0% while the LNG demand grew by 1.0%.
What Is a Lis Pendens?  

A lis pendens is an official notice to the public that a lawsuit involving a claim on a property has been filed. Lis pendens is connected to the concept that a property buyer must assume any litigation that exists pertaining to the property.



If a bank is suing the owner of a lot and a new buyer purchases it, the new owner inherits the responsibility of the lawsuit; the sale of the property does not prevent the plaintiff from seeking redress via litigation. It can represent a contingent liability.





Key Takeaways

A lis pendens is an official, public notice that a property has a pending lawsuit or claim attached to it.Lis pendens can only be filed if a claim is related specifically to the property; however, most laws specify that the property owner must assume any litigation associated with it.Lis pendens are common in divorce cases where spouses are divvying up assets or in cases in which a home is up for foreclosure after a borrower defaults on a mortgage.


   How Lis Pendens Work  

Lis pendens is literally translated from Latin as "suit pending." This condition can adversely affect the sale price or the possibility of a sale since any pending litigations are typically unfavorable for the owner. The term is commonly abbreviated "lis pend."



Lis pendens provides constructive notice, or a warning, to prospective homebuyers that the ownership of a property is in dispute and litigation is pending. Lis pendens can only be filed if a claim is related specifically to the property. By filing a lis pendens, an individual or entity is protecting its claim to the title pending the lawsuit's outcome.






A lis pendens is only lifted once the lawsuit has been settled. Because pending litigation can take months and sometimes years, buyers are often advised to stay clear of these properties.


   When a Lis Pendens Is Used  

Lis pendens can be used anytime there is a dispute over real property, but most of the time, it is used in three situations.


  Divorce  

A lis pendens is often filed in divorce cases where the distribution of real estate properties has not been settled. It is particularly common in cases where a property is listed in the name of one spouse, and the other spouse seeks a portion of the asset. The spouse whose name is on the title would have difficulty selling the property under pending litigation.


  Mortgage Default/Foreclosure  

Lis pendens is almost always used by lenders who have filed a notice of default on a delinquent borrower. Banks use the procedure to notify the public that a property is in foreclosure. Other creditors whose debt is secured by property can also foreclose on a property.


  Contract Disputes  

It is not uncommon for lis pendens to arise in contract disputes, where a buyer feels they have been wrongly excluded from purchasing a home. For example, if buyer A and a seller enter into a contract for the sale of a home and the seller decides to sell the house to buyer B, buyer A may sue the seller to enforce the sale.



The buyer can file a lis pendens after filing a lawsuit, making it difficult for the seller to sell the house. If buyer B proceeds with the purchase and the courts determine that buyer A is entitled to enforce the sale, buyer B loses the property to buyer A and must go to the seller to get their money back.






In some states, homeowners associations (HOA) can place liens against your home for not paying fees or abiding by covenants. Depending on your state's laws, an HOA can file a claim against your home and a lis pendens, making it difficult for you to sell it.


   How to File a Lis Pendens  

A lis pendens can only be filed if an action is pending. Additionally, the pending suit must involve real property, such as land and buildings. If these requirements are not met, the notice can be expunged.



Filing requirements vary by state, but generally, there are two steps. First, a lawsuit must be filed with the county clerk, and the suit must be pending. Second, the lis pendens must be recorded in the county land records so that it can be attached to the property's title. Filing the lis pendens generally serves as the notice that there is a dispute on the property, but the requirements to serve notice also vary by state.



Because lis pendens requirements vary by state, you should contact a real estate lawyer in your area to learn if you need to file one and how it is served. It is possible to draft a lis pendens yourself based on information you can find online; however, this is a complex document that uses specific wording. One error or mistake can cause it to be expunged, so it is best to have an attorney familiar with real estate laws in your area prepare it. If you can't afford an attorney, you may be able to find public assistance programs in your area that can help.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Is the Purpose of Lis Pendens?
Lis pendens is a legal means for serving notice to anyone concerned with a piece of real estate that there is a claim and pending legal action against the property. It is important because it notifies potential buyers that another party has a claim to the property. If that party wins a lawsuit, a new buyer can lose the property or be held responsible for the claim.




What Does Discharge of Lis Pendens Mean?
If you receive a discharge of lis pendens, it means your property no longer has a claim or lawsuit against it.




Who Issues Lis Pendens?
Anyone who believes they have a claim on a property can file a lis pendens with the Clerk of Court in the county they live in. There must be a pending lawsuit for the lis pendens to be valid.




What Is Meant by Lis in Law?
The literal transaltion of the Latin word "lis" is suit, or lawsuit. "Pendens" translates as pending, so lis pendens means pending lawsuit or lawsuit pending.


   The Bottom Line  

Lis pendens is a notice that a property has a claim against it backed by a pending lawsuit. The notice must be filed with the Clerk of Court for the county you live in and is recorded in the county real estate records.



A lawsuit must be pending before the notice can be filed and served. A lis pendens can be drafted and filed by anyone with an interest in a property, but because the language must be specific and it is a complex document, it is best to hire a real estate attorney in your area to prepare it for you.
What is the Lisbon Treaty?  

The Lisbon Treaty, also known as the Treaty of Lisbon, updated regulations for the European Union, establishing a more centralized leadership and foreign policy, a proper process for countries that wish to leave the Union, and a streamlined process for enacting new policies.



The treaty was signed on December 13, 2007, in Lisbon, Portugal, and amended the two previous treaties that established the foundation for the European Union.





Key Takeaways

The Lisbon Treaty updated European Union (EU) regulations, establishing more centralized leadership and foreign policy, a process for countries that want to leave the EU, and a streamlined process for enacting new policies. The treaty was built on existing treaties but adopted new rules to enhance cohesion and streamline action within the EU.The Lisbon Treaty also replaced the previously rejected Constitutional Treaty, which attempted to establish a Union constitution.


   Understanding the Lisbon Treaty  
  Before the Lisbon Treaty  

The Lisbon Treaty was signed by the 27 member states of the European Union and officially took effect in December of 2009, two years after it was signed. It amended two existing treaties, the Treaty of Rome and the Maastricht Treaty.



Treaty of Rome: Signed in 1957, this treaty introduced the European Economic Community (EEC), reduced customs regulations between member countries, and facilitated a single market for goods and the set of policies for transporting them. Also known as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Maastricht Treaty: Signed in 1992, this treaty established the three pillars of the European Union and paved the way for the euro, the common currency. Also known as the Treaty on European Union (TEU).



While these previous treaties set ground rules and tenets of the European Union, the Lisbon Treaty went further to establish new Union-wide roles and official legal procedures.


  What the Lisbon Treaty Changed  

The Lisbon Treaty was built on existing treaties but adopted new rules to enhance cohesion and streamline action within the European Union. Important articles of the Lisbon Treaty include:



Article 18: Established protocol for electing a High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Elected in or out of office by a majority vote, this Representative oversees the Union's foreign and security affairs.
Article 21: Detailed global diplomatic policy for the European Union, based on the principles of universal human rights, democracy, and development. The Union pledged to forge alliances with those countries that support these beliefs and reach out to third-world nations to help them develop.
Article 50: Established procedures for a member country to leave the European Union.



The Lisbon Treaty also replaced the previously rejected Constitutional Treaty, which attempted to establish a Union constitution. Member countries couldn't agree on the voting procedures established in the constitution, since some countries, such as Spain and Poland, would lose voting power.



The Lisbon Treaty resolved this issue by proposing weighted votes and extending the reach of qualified majority voting.


  Opinions of the Lisbon Treaty  

Those who supported the Lisbon Treaty argued that it enhanced accountability by providing a better system of checks and balances, and that it gave more power to the European Parliament, which held major influence in the Union's legislative branch.



Many critics of the Lisbon Treaty argued that it pulled influence toward the center, forming an unequal distribution of power that ignored the needs of smaller countries.
What Is "Listed"?  

A listed company issues shares of its stock for trading on a stock exchange. If a company is listed in the U.S., it has met the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for selling shares to the public and has been accepted for trading on an exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange. It is a public company.



Companies that are listed are required to submit quarterly financial statements to the SEC and to their shareholders.





Key Takeaways


A listed company issues stock shares to the public through a stock exchange.
Once issued, the company's outstanding shares are bought and sold through the exchange.
Listed companies must follow the rules of the exchange and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
A company may be delisted because it fails to meet the exchange requirements or because the company is being bought out by another company or by private investors.
A company that does not meet the standards of an exchange may offer stock shares to the public through the over-the-counter market.



   Understanding the Term Listed  

A listed company is a public company. It has issued shares of its stock through an exchange, with each share representing a sliver of ownership of the company. Those shares can then be bought and sold by investors, rising or falling in value according to demand.



A company must apply to an exchange to be listed. Each exchange sets its own requirements, which typically include minimum levels of cash flow and company assets. The company also must adhere to the exchange's standards of corporate governance.



Since they are public companies, all listed companies are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Among other things, this means that the company must publish quarterly and annual financial reports.



In order to be listed, a company must meet the qualifications set by one of the stock exchanges. Once a company is listed, it must continue to meet those qualifications or risk being delisted.


   Benefits of Being Listed  

Companies list on an exchange in order to raise cash. The sale of stock on the open market is one way to raise a great deal of money fast.



In general, companies that want to grow and expand have a few ways to raise the money:



They can borrow the money and pay interest on it.They can seek private investors with deep pockets, who will expect a measure of control in return for their investment.They can go public and raise money through the sale of shares in the company.



Of course, individual investors also expect to exert a measure of control over companies whose stock they own. Ownership of a single share of common stock gives an investor the right to attend a company's annual meeting and vote on the issues raised there.


  Other Benefits  

Listing on a stock exchange gives a company more than access to a piggy bank. It can greatly enhance the visibility of the company by drawing the attention of investors and the financial media. It also gives a company a way to reward its employees, through stock options.



There are benefits to investors as well. The requirements of the exchanges and the regulations of the SEC together offer a degree of transparency and accountability.



In their modern form, the exchanges also offer great liquidity and ease of use to stock investors.





2,800

The number of companies listed on the NYSE. The Nasdaq lists about 3,300.


   Initial Public Offering (IPO)  

Many ambitious young companies set "going public" as their first major goal. The process toward launching an initial public offering (IPO) is long and arduous and includes attracting early private investors, building, refining, and testing the product, and creating a business plan.



The company must prepare a package of financial statements to submit to the Securities & Exchange Commission for its approval. Then the company's founders go on the road to sell their plan to institutional investors and the financial media.



Once a company has been accepted for listing on an exchange, it can set a share price and a date for its IPO.



If the IPO is successful, the company gets a big wad of cash to invest in its expansion and to reward its founders and early investors.



Once the company is established it can issue new rounds of stock shares from time to time. This is usually done to raise money for a specific project. It can't be done too often, though, without objections from existing shareholders who don't want the value of their shares diluted.


   Listed vs. Unlisted Companies  

Some of the biggest brands in America are produced by companies that are privately owned rather than publicly listed.



Some companies bounce back and forth between listed and privately-owned status, typically as a result of a leveraged buyout by a private equity firm. Burger King and the Jo-Anne Stores chain are examples of companies that have been listed and unlisted.



Some very large companies have never been listed. The largest privately-owned companies in America include Cargill, Koch Industries, and the Publix supermarket chain.


   Requirements to be Listed on the Nasdaq Exchange  

The Nasdaq is a global online stock exchange known for listing some of America's largest technology companies.



A company can qualify for listing on the Nasdaq if it meets the requirements outlined in its 19-page "Initial Listing Guide." Those requirements include:



The company must have a minimum of 1,000,000 publicly traded shares upon listing, excluding those held by officers, directors, or any beneficial owners of more than 10% of the company.
The regular bid price at the time of listing must be at least $4, and there must be at least three market makers for the stock. Alternatively, the company may qualify if it has a closing price of $3 or $2, depending on other requirements.
The company must abide by Nasdaq corporate governance rules.
Companies must have a market value of publicly held stock of $15,000,000 (or $5,000,000 if using the net income standard).



The Nasdaq also requires companies to meet all of the criteria under at least one of the following standards:



Earnings standard: The company must have aggregate pre-tax earnings in the prior three years of at least $10 million, in the prior two years of at least $2 million, and no single year in the prior three years can have a net loss.
Capitalization with cash flow: The company must have a minimum aggregate cash flow of at least $27.5 million for the past three fiscal years with no negative cash flow in any of those three years. In addition, the company's average market capitalization over the prior 12 months must be at least $550 million, and revenues in the previous fiscal year must be a minimum of $110 million.
Capitalization with revenue: Companies can be removed from the cash flow requirement of the second standard if their average market capitalization over the past 12 months is at least $850 million and revenues over the prior fiscal year are at least $90 million.
Assets with equity: Companies can eliminate the cash flow and revenue requirements, and decrease their marketing capitalization requirements to $160 million if their assets total at least $80 million and their stockholders' equity is at least $55 million.


   Requirements to be Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)  

The New York Stock Exchange is the world's largest stock exchange and the oldest in America, having been founded in 1792.



The NYSE requires applicants to meet any one of several financial standards. It must meet a set minimum for pre-tax income, global market capitalization, shareholders' equity, or market value of outstanding shares.



It also has what it calls distribution standards, with minimums set for share price and trading volume, among other factors.


   Questions & Answers  


Is a Listed Company a Public Company?
All listed companies are public companies by definition. That is, they are permitted to list shares of their stock for trading to the public on one of the exchanges. They have met the standards of the exchange and are regulated as public companies by the SEC.




Can a Company Be Delisted?
When a company is delisted, it could be good news or bad news for investors.A company can be delisted because it no longer meets the standards of the stock exchange that lists it. That usually means that the company is failing and its stock has dropped below $1 or so a share.These companies often are headed for bankruptcy. Their outstanding issues may trade as penny stocks in the over-the-counter market but more often are worthless.A notorious current example is Sears Holding Corporation, owner of the moribund Sears and KMart department store chains. Delisted from the Nasdaq in 2018, it is now sold over-the-counter under the symbol SHLDQ. As of March 11, 2022, its share price was 0.0190 and it had a market capitalization of $3.07 million.A company also can be delisted when a private equity firm or other buyer buys up its shares for a merger, a takeover, or a private equity buyout. In some cases, the goal may be to revamp the company and then go public again.For example, Dell Computers went public in 1988 and then delisted in 2013, when its founder Michael Dell and his partners acquired a controlling interest and paid off its remaining shareholders. Dell (DELL) returned to public trading in August 2016.




What Is an Unquoted Public Company?
An unquoted public company is an unlisted company. It may trade over-the-counter or it may have ceased trading altogether.Unquoted public companies do not qualify for an exchange listing or have been delisted from an exchange.Unquoted public companies are less heavily regulated than listed companies but more regulated than private companies.
What Is an Exchange-Traded Option?  

An exchange-traded option is a standardized derivative contract, traded on an exchange, that settles through a clearinghouse and is guaranteed.





Key Takeaways

An exchange-traded option is a standardized derivative contract, traded on an exchange, that settles through a clearinghouse, and is guaranteed.Exchange-traded options contracts are listed on exchanges, such as the Cboe Options Exchange, and overseen by regulators, like the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).A key feature of exchange-traded options that attract investors is that they are guaranteed by clearinghouses, such as the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC).


   Understanding Exchange-Traded Options  

An exchange-traded option is a standardized contract to either buy (using a call option), or sell (using a put option) a set quantity of a specific financial product, on, or before, a predetermined date for a predetermined price (the strike price).



Exchange-traded options contracts are listed on exchanges such as the Cboe Options Exchange. The exchanges are overseen by regulators—including the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)—and are guaranteed by clearinghouses such as the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC).


   Benefits of Exchange-Traded Options  

Exchange-traded options, also known as 'listed options', provide many benefits that distinguish them from over-the-counter (OTC) options. Because exchange-traded options have standardized strike prices, expiration dates, and deliverables (the number of shares/contracts of the underlying asset), they attract, and accommodate, larger numbers of traders. OTC options usually tend to have customized provisions.



This increased volume benefits traders by providing improved liquidity and a reduction in costs. The more traders there are for a specific options contract, the easier it is for interested buyers to identify willing sellers, and the narrower the bid-ask spread becomes.



The standardization of exchange-traded options also enables clearinghouses to guarantee that options contract buyers will be able to exercise their options—and that options contract sellers will fulfill the obligations they take on when selling options contracts—because the clearinghouse can match any of a number of options contract buyers with any of a number of options contract sellers. Clearinghouses can do this more easily because the terms of the contracts are all the same, making them interchangeable. This feature greatly enhances the appeal of exchange-traded options, as it mitigates the risk involved in transacting in these types of securities.


   Drawbacks of Exchange-Traded Options  

Exchange-traded options do have one significant drawback in that since they are standardized, the investor cannot tailor them to fit their requirements exactly. Unlike OTC options—which are not standardized, but are negotiated directly between the buyer and the seller—exchange-traded options cannot be customized to fit the buyer's or seller's specific goals. However, in most cases, traders will find exchange-traded options provide a wide enough variety of strike prices and expiration dates to meet their trading needs.
What Is a Listed Property?  

The term listed property refers to a certain type of depreciable property that may be used primarily for business purposes. To be considered listed property, an item must be used for more than 50% for a company's business. That means assets may be used for personal purposes for the remainder of the time. Listed property is subject to a special set of tax rules for the taxpayer.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Listed property is any depreciable asset subject to a special set of tax rules if it is used predominantly for business purposes.In order to be considered listed property, an asset must be used for business purposes no less than 50% of the time.Listed property may also be used for personal use for the remainder of the time.﻿﻿Examples of listed property include vehicles, computers, and recording equipment.


   Understanding Listed Property  

Listed property is any asset that a company uses for business purposes for more than 50% of the time. These assets also depreciate in value over time and can be used for personal purposes when not in use for the day-to-day operations of the business. In simple terms, a company's listed property is any asset used for both business and personal purposes that loses value over time, as long as it is predominantly used to run the business.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), listed property includes:



Automobiles weighing less than 6,000 pounds, excluding ambulances, hearses, and trucks or vans qualified nonpersonal use vehicles.
Other property used for transportation purposes including trucks, buses, boats, airplanes, motorcycles, and other vehicles used to transport persons or goods.
Properties used for entertainment, recreation or amusement.﻿﻿
Computers and related peripheral equipment placed in service before January 1, 2018, unless used only at a regular business establishment, and owned or leased by the person operating the establishment.﻿﻿



The listed property rules were introduced as part of the United States tax code to keep people from claiming tax deductions for the personal use of property under the guise that it was used in a business or trade. For instance, companies are required to keep detailed records of all the assets they use as listed property. This includes the amount paid for each piece of property including the original cost, any repairs involved, insurance, and any other related expenses.﻿﻿



Listed property—also referred to at times as mixed-use property—used primarily for business reasons is subject to the statutory percentage depreciation method, as it will be considered a business asset. Listed property used for business only half the time at most—and passes the predominant use test—can still have depreciation based on the business use percentage claimed on it. In this case, though, it must be depreciated under the straight-line method. Cars used solely to carry passengers are also subject to additional depreciation limitations. Listed property that does not meet the predominant use test is not eligible for Section 179 depreciation—the maximum amount of depreciation allowed—or other accelerated depreciation methods.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Costs associated with​ ​the use of listed property are not deductible as business expenses. In other words, a tax-paying entity must substantiate the business use of a property if it is to depreciate this property or deduct expenses. The predominant use test must be applied to every item of listed property. This test stipulates that the business usage of the listed property must be more than 50%.﻿﻿ This must be done for every asset a business claims as listed property in order to:



Claim a bonus depreciation
Claim an expensing election
To depreciate the property under the modified accelerated cost recovery system (MACRS) depreciation system﻿﻿



A recaptured depreciation may be added back to income in any year after the first year of use that the listed property business usage drops below 50%. That is, the taxpayer may have to pay back some of the excess depreciation claimed. The amount of depreciation recaptured is the accelerated depreciation allowed for the years preceding the recapture year, including any Section 179 expense, minus the MACRS alternative depreciation system (ADS) depreciation amount that would have been allowed for the same period of time.﻿﻿


   Examples of Listed Property  

Here's a list of assets that generally qualify as listed property:



Passenger vehicles, airplanes, boats and other vehicles used for transportationComputers and other office-related equipmentRecording equipment such as cameras and audio equipment﻿﻿






As of Jan. 1, 2010, cell phones cannot be claimed as listed property under the U.S. tax code.﻿﻿



Cell phones were once included as a category of listed property. But changes were made to prevent taxpayers from abusing the system and to cut down on people claiming their personal communications devices as commercial-use equipment. As such, the Small Business Jobs Act removed cell phones and other similar personal telecommunications devices from the list of acceptable listed property as of Jan. 1, 2010. Cell phones and other devices, however, may still be claimed for tax years prior to 2010.﻿﻿
What Is a Listed Security?  

A listed security is a financial instrument that is traded through an exchange, such as the NYSE or Nasdaq. When a private company decides to go public and issue shares, it will need to choose an exchange on which to be listed. To do so, it must be able to meet that exchange's listing requirements and pay both the exchange's entry and yearly listing fees. Listing requirements vary by exchange and include minimum stockholder's equity, a minimum share price, and a minimum number of shareholders. Exchanges have listing requirements to ensure that only high-quality securities are traded on them and to uphold the exchange's reputation among investors.


   Listed Security Definition  

Becoming a listed company on the Nasdaq is considerably less expensive than listing on the NYSE, so newer companies often opt for the Nasdaq if they meet its requirements. The exchange a company chooses to be listed on can affect how investors perceive the stock. Some companies choose to cross-list their securities on more than one exchange.



If a stock fails to comply with the exchange's listing requirements, it will be delisted. Delisted securities that can no longer be traded on an exchange will sometimes be traded over the counter. The over-the-counter market does not have listing requirements.


   Requirements to Become a Listed Company on NASDAQ  

Each company that lists on the NASDAQ must put up a minimum of 1,250,000 publicly traded shares for sale to the public, excluding those shares held by officers, directors, or any beneficial owners. In addition, the regular bid price at time of listing must be at least $4.00, and there must be at least three to four market makers for the stock.﻿﻿



However, a company may qualify under a closing price alternative of $3.00 or $2.00 if the company meets other certain metrics. Companies must also have at least 450 round lot (100 shares) shareholders, 2,200 total shareholders, or 550 total shareholders with 1.1 million average trading volume over the past 12 months.﻿﻿


   Requirements to Become a Listed Company on NYSE  

To get listed on NYSE, a corporation needs at least 400 round-lot holders, or stockholders, with 100 shares apiece. The company must also have at least 1.1 million outstanding shares worth $40 million or more, and a price-per-share can be no lower than $4. If a new listing is an IPO, the NYSE requires a guarantee from the IPO underwriter that the IPO will meet the board's standards.﻿﻿ 



The earnings test for a new NYSE listing requires a minimum $100 million total earnings for the previous three years. Valuation with cash flow requires capitalization – the value of the outstanding stock – of $500 million and an aggregate $25 million cash flow for the past two years. Pure valuation requires a $750 million capitalization and revenue of $75 million in the most recent fiscal year. An affiliate of an established NYSE listing only needs $500 million in capitalization and a year in existence as a company.﻿﻿
What Is a Listing Agreement?  

A listing agreement is a contract under which a property owner (as principal) authorizes a real estate broker (as agent) to find a buyer for the property on the owner's terms. In exchange for this service, the owner pays a commission.



Less commonly, the term listing agreement also refers to a contract made between a security issuer (e.g., a public company) and the financial exchange that hosts the issue. Examples of exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), and the London Stock Exchange (LSE).





Key Takeaways

A listing agreement is a contract between a property owner and a real estate broker that authorizes the broker to represent the seller and find a buyer for the property.The three types of real estate listing agreements are open listing, exclusive agency listing, and exclusive right-to-sell listing.The listing agreement is an employment contract rather than a real estate contract: The broker is hired to represent the seller, but no property is transferred between the two.


   How a Listing Agreement Works  

A listing agreement authorizes the broker to represent the seller and their property to third parties. The listing agreement is an employment contract rather than a real estate contract: The broker is hired to represent the seller, but no property is transferred between the two.



Under the provisions of real estate license laws, only a broker can act as an agent to list, sell, or rent another person's real estate. In most states, listing agreements must be written.



Because the same considerations arise in almost all real estate transactions, most listing agreements require similar information, starting with a description of the property. The description typically includes a list of personal property that will be left with the property when it's sold, as well as a list of personal property the seller expects to remove (for example, appliances, and window treatments).



The listing agreement also specifies the listing price, broker's duties, seller's duties, broker's compensation, terms for mediation, an automatic termination date, and any additional terms and conditions.






Though listing agreements are legally binding, it's possible to terminate the contract in certain situations—for example, if the broker does nothing to market the property. In addition, the listing agreement will be terminated if the property is destroyed (e.g., by a fire or natural disaster), or upon the death, bankruptcy, or insanity of either the broker or seller.


   Types of Listing Agreements  
  Open Listing  

With an open listing, a seller retains the right to employ any number of brokers as agents. It’s a nonexclusive type of listing, and the seller is obligated to pay a commission only to the broker who successfully finds a ready, willing, and able buyer. The seller retains the right to sell the property independently without any obligation to pay a commission.






The Multiple Listing Service (MLS) is a shared database established by cooperating real estate brokers to provide data about properties for sale. MLS allows brokers to see one another's listings of properties for sale with the goal of connecting homebuyers to sellers. Under this arrangement, both the listing and selling broker benefit by consolidating and sharing information and by sharing commissions.


  Exclusive Agency Listing  

With an exclusive agency listing, one broker is authorized to act as the exclusive agent for the seller. The seller retains the right to sell the property without obligation to the broker. However, the seller is obligated to pay a commission to the broker if the broker is the procuring cause of the sale.


  Exclusive Right-to-Sell Listing  

An exclusive right-to-sell listing is the most commonly used contract. With this type of listing agreement, one broker is appointed the sole seller's agent and has exclusive authorization to represent the property. The broker receives a commission no matter who sells the property while the listing agreement is in effect.
What Are Listing Requirements?  

Listing requirements comprise the various criteria and minimum standards established by stock exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), that companies must meet to list their shares for trading.



A company will be allowed to list shares for trading only if it meets initial as well as ongoing requirements.



Companies that do not meet listing requirements on major exchanges may be able to offer their shares for trading over-the-counter (OTC).





Key Takeaways

To have its shares traded on a stock exchange, a company must meet certain exchange liquidity and financial requirements. Also, it must pay both the exchange's initial and ongoing yearly listing fees.Listing requirements vary by exchange and include minimum stockholder's equity, a minimum share price, and a minimum number of shareholders.Requirements ensure that only high-quality securities are traded on an exchange.Moreover, the high standards that companies must meet reassure investors of an exchange's integrity and reputation.


   Understanding Listing Requirements  

Listing requirements are a set of conditions which a firm must meet before listing a security on one of the organized stock exchanges, such as the NYSE, the Nasdaq, the London Stock Exchange, or the Tokyo Stock Exchange.



The requirements typically include a certain size and market share of the security to be listed. The underlying financial viability of the issuing firm is also a criterion. Exchanges establish these standards as a means of maintaining their own integrity, reputation, and visibility.



When firms request listings, they have to prove to an exchange that they meet the listing requirements. The high visibility and liquidity that a listing supports is strong incentive for a company to meet listing requirements.



Once a security is listed, the issuing firm usually must maintain a set of related but less stringent trading requirements. Otherwise, the company faces delisting. While no legal penalty is involved, being delisted can mean huge consequences for a company because its stock won't be traded on the exchange. 



Firms can cross-list a security on more than one exchange, and often do. Listing requirements are not barriers to trading altogether, as firms are always free to trade securities over-the-counter. However, OTC trading does not provide anywhere near the liquidity, regulatory oversight, prestige or visibility as trading on one of the major stock exchanges provides. 






Nasdaq's U.S. exchange had 3,767 companies listed as of January 2022. Canada's TMX exchange and the New York Stock Exchange followed with 3,546 companies and 2,529 companies, respectively.


   Listing Requirements in Practice  
  Basic Requirements  

Listing requirements vary by exchange but there are certain metrics which are almost always included. The two most important categories of requirements deal with the size of the firm (as defined by annual income or market capitalization) and the liquidity of the shares (a certain number of shares must already have been issued).



For example, the NYSE requires firms to already have 1.1 million publicly-traded shares outstanding with a collective market value of at least $40 million ($100 million for worldwide trading).



The Nasdaq requires firms to already have 1.25 million publicly-traded shares with a collective market value of $45 million. Both the NYSE and the Nasdaq require a minimum security listing price of $4 per share.


  Fees  

Usually, an initial listing fee as well as yearly listing fees are required. The annual fees can scale up depending on the number of shares being traded and can total hundreds of thousands of dollars. Nasdaq fees are considerably lower than those of the NYSE. This lower cost has made the Nasdaq a more popular choice of exchange for newer or smaller firms. 




Can a Company Be Delisted?
Yes. If companies fail to pay annual fees or they can no longer meet the financial and liquidity requirements of an exchange, they can be delisted. Also, if share prices drop below a certain minimum, a company can be delisted. Once delisted from a particular exchange, investors won't be able to trade a company's stock on that exchange.




What Listing Requirements Does Nasdaq Have?
Nasdaq has three different tiers of listings: Nasdaq Global Select Market, Nasdaq Global Market, and Nasdaq Capital Market. Each tier has its specific listing requirements. In the instance of an IPO, all companies must have 1.25 million shares outstanding and 2200 total shareholders (or 450 shareholders with 100 shares each). The market value of unrestricted publicly held shares (or publicly held shares and shareholder equity) must be at least $45 million. Companies must meet one of four possible financial standards, as well. These involve earnings, cash flow and capitalization, capitalization and revenue, or assets and equity.




What Are the Largest Stock Exchanges?
By market capitalization, the largest stock exchanges are the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. Both are located in the New York. As of March 2022, the combined value of shares listed on both exchanges reached over $36 trillion.
What Is Litecoin (LTC) Mining?  

Litecoin (LTC) is a cryptocurrency created as a fork of Bitcoin in 2011. It uses a hashing algorithm called Scrypt that requires specifically designed mining software and hardware. It is minable, and continues to rank in the top cryptocurrencies for value and trading volume.



Litecoin mining is the process of validating transactions in the blockchain, closing the block, and opening a new one. Litecoin uses the proof-of-work consensus mechanism, which uses computational power to solve the nonce, which is part of the hash, that secures the block. The hash is the alphanumeric sequence of numbers that is encrypted by the hashing algorithm. When the nonce is solved, Litecoin is rewarded.



Litecoin mining became popular in 2011 when Charlie Lee, a software engineer at Google, announced its creation as a Bitcoin fork with modifications intended to help it scale more effectively.



Just like Bitcoin, it can be mined on computers using central processing units and graphics processing units. However, it isn't as profitable or competitive as purchasing an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) and joining a mining pool.





Key Takeaways 

Litecoin mining is similar to Bitcoin mining in that it requires specialized hardware and software for operations.While it can be mined on computers, to be competitive Litecoin requires several ASIC miners.Solo Litecoin mining profitability is extremely low because the cryptocurrency's mining network is very centralized.Profits from Litecoin mining are a function of your investments in hardware and software, pool fees, electricity costs, and Litecoin's price.












   Understanding Litecoin Mining  

Litecoin mining is very similar to Bitcoin mining. A mining program runs on a machine, computer, or device. Often, mining is described as a complicated mathematical process; however, the mining software randomly generates encrypted numbers and letters to attempt to guess a value lower than that of the nonce—a two digit random alphanumeric figure contained in the block's hash.



Miners are connected to the internet, and form a mining network. There is no limit to the number of mining program users within a network of miners, so anyone attempting to mine a Litecoin is competing with all other miners in the network to solve the hash.



The first miner to guess smaller than the target hash set by the blockchain protocol wins a reward of 12.5 Litecoin. The reward changes over time with hash difficulty.





Litecoin price


   How to Mine Litecoin  

To get started, you will need to invest in hardware mining rigs and software to run the mining process itself. The state of the Litecoin mining network is such that a single miner with one ASIC, a computer, or laptop stands no chance—or a very limited one—of solving a hash to win a reward. However, you still may not be able to keep up with the mining network and large farms and pools of miners with one or even two ASICs.



For example, the Litecoin Miner L7 can mine at 9 GH/s (gigahashes per second, or nine billion hashes per second), while a CPU generally mines in thousands of hashes per second (KH/s). A mining pool can mine at more than 120 TH/s (120 terahashes per second, or 120 trillion hashes per second).



To begin mining Litecoin, you'll need to purchase one (or several) ASIC miner(s) and connect it to the internet. You'll then need to choose a mining pool to mine with, set the miner up using the pool's instructions—usually posted on the pool's website—and begin mining following the instructions for your machine, software, and pool.



You'll also need to choose a wallet to store your private keys in. You could use wallets like Exodus, Electrum, or Mycelium.


   How to Select Mining Hardware  

There are several factors that you should consider while looking into mining hardware or software for Litecoin:



Your goals and expectationsPriceEnergy use and costHashrateWhether to join a pool


  Your Goals and Expectations  

Most importantly, you'll need to identify your goals for mining Litecoin. For example, you might want to mine for some extra spending money, or you might want to mine and hold the Litecoin you receive as rewards. Whatever your reasons, you'll need to make sure that you can get the returns you want before investing in expensive hardware.


  Price  

The mining pool, F2Pool, lists current ASIC mining costs and revenue. TheLitecoin Miner L7 is one of the most profitable Litecoin miners, but with a price tag of $18,500, it could take you years to recoup the purchase cost. The amount you spend will dictate how productive and profitable you are as a miner.



You might be able to find used ASICs for sale at much lower prices, but it's good to be cautious because some of these machines have been used very hard.


  Energy Use and Cost  

You should consider the amount of energy used by an ASIC miner. The Litecoin ASIC miner, the Antminer L7, uses approximately $10 per day in energy. Your energy bill would increase by more than $3,500 per year, further reducing your yearly profits.



This cost represents only the energy used to power the miner. ASICs produce a lot of heat while they run—to be most profitable, they need to run 24 hours a day. An ASIC will run up your cooling bill unless you can find a way to vent the heat outside your home.





Litecoin hashrate distribution


  Hashrate  

Hashrate is another crucial consideration. The faster your ASIC can hash, the more competitive you'll be on your own or in a pool. Many mining pools split the cryptocurrency they're rewarded, but most base individual rewards on the amount of work done per miner.



If you have a slow ASIC, your profits are likely to be much less than a miner with a faster mining rig or setup.


  Whether to Join a Pool  

Once you've decided what equipment you'll use to mine, you need to decide how to mine: solo or in a pool. Mining alone, you risk going long periods of time without finding a block. However, if you're lucky enough to mine a block solo, you'll keep the entire 12.5 LTC plus fees.



Pool mining, in which large numbers of miners combine and distribute the proceeds according to the hashing power contributed, is still subject to the vagaries of chance: your pool might open three blocks out of 10, then wait for 200 blocks to open another one. Your earnings are almost certain to be more steady with a pool; the tradeoff is that you only earn a small cut of each block the pool finds.




How Long Does It Take to Mine 1 Litecoin?
Litecoin's mining reward is 12.5 Litecoins per block. The average block mining time on Litecoin's blockchain is about 2.5 minutes.




Is Mining Litecoin Profitable?
Litecoin mining can be profitable if you have the proper setup and join a pool that splits rewards in a profitable way.




What Is the Best Way to Mine Litecoin?
The best way, and the only way to stand a chance of winning a reward, is to buy one or more ASIC miners specifically designed for Litecoin and Scrypt and join a mining pool. Otherwise, you simply will not have enough hashing power to compete.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is a Living Trust?  

A living trust is a legal arrangement established by an individual (the grantor) during their lifetime to protect their assets and direct their distribution after the grantor's death.



It is an estate planning tool that can help family members and beneficiaries avoid a lengthy, public, complex, and sometimes costly, probate process.



A living trust takes the form of a legal document. The document lays out the terms of the trust and the assets that the grantor assigns to it. A trustee is designated by the grantor as the individual (or entity) who, at a certain point, will control those assets for the benefit of the beneficiaries.





Key Takeaways

A living trust is a legal arrangement used in estate planning and set up by someone during their lifetime.It designates a trustee and provides explicit directions for the distribution of assets after the death of the grantor.A trustee manages assets in a trust according to beneficiaries' best interests.Living trusts can be either revocable or irrevocable, which differ in terms of tax treatment and flexibility.Individuals may prefer a living trust to a will because a living trust bypasses the probate process.


   How Living Trusts Work  

Living trusts are significant in that they allow a trustee to manage the assets in the trust and transfer them to beneficiaries after the grantor’s death.



They begin with the establishment of a trust instrument during the lifetime of the grantor. This is a legal document that lays out the rules and provisions of the trust. Due to their importance and potential complexity, those arranging for a living trust often work with experienced estate planning professionals to ensure a proper setup.



Once the living trust is created, the grantor decides what assets should be in it and then transfers the title of those assets to the trust.



Living trusts are managed by a trustee who typically has a fiduciary duty to manage the trust prudently and in the best interests of the trust's beneficiaries. Beneficiaries are designated by the grantor when they create the living trust.



Upon the death of the grantor, these assets flow to the beneficiaries according to the grantor's wishes as outlined in the trust agreement.



A living trust itself can be named the beneficiary of certain assets which would otherwise flow directly to the named beneficiary (regardless of what is stated in a will).



Unlike a will, a living trust takes effect while the grantor is living. The trust does not have to go through probate for assets to reach the intended beneficiaries when the grantor dies or becomes incapacitated.


  Assets in a Living Trust  

Assets must be assigned to a living trust to be covered by its terms. That means they are re-titled to indicate ownership by the trust.



The types of assets that can be assigned to (or fund) a trust include real estate (land, commercial property, homes), financial accounts, personal property (such as jewelry, artwork, antiques), and business interests.



Specific financial accounts and items can include:



Stock and bond certificates and safe deposit boxes
Mutual fund accounts, brokerage accounts
Money market accounts, certificates of deposit
Checking and saving accounts, and cash
Money owed to you
Life insurance policies
Non-qualified annuities



You shouldn't put a 401(k) or IRA in a living trust. That's because if you change the title (or ownership structure) of, e.g., your employer-sponsored retirement plan, the IRS will see it as an early withdrawal.



That means you'd owe taxes on the amount in your account in the year that the assignment takes place. If you're less than 591/2, you’ll also have to pay a 10% penalty for the early withdrawal.


   Types of Living Trusts  

The two primary types of living trusts are revocable and irrevocable.


  Revocable  

A revocable living trust is the most common type of living trust. It is a trust whereby the person who creates it (the grantor) maintains control over the assets placed within the trust. At the creation of the trust, the grantor can designate themself as the trustee. They have the power to change and amend trust rules at any time. They're free to change beneficiaries, change trustee, remove assets, or terminate the trust. 



Revocable living trusts are often used to protect the assets of the grantor should they become ill or otherwise unable to control them. In this situation, the successor trustee will make decisions for the grantor. Revocable living trusts often become irrevocable upon the creator's death.



Taxes owed on assets in a living revocable trust are still paid by the grantor (while living). However, tax rates don't increase just because assets are placed within the trust.


  Irrevocable  

With an irrevocable living trust, the trust itself owns the assets and the grantor can't designate themself as the trustee. Thus, the grantor relinquishes certain rights of control over the trust. The trustee effectively becomes the legal owner.



Once an irrevocable living trust is created, the named beneficiaries are set and the grantor can do little to amend that agreement. In fact, trust provisions can only be changed in certain, specific situations. Such changes may even require the approval of the courts. In addition, you can never take back the assets assigned to an irrevocable living trust.



There are benefits to having an irrevocable living trust. For one, it protects the assets within it from lawsuits and creditors. That makes them particularly useful to professionals who may be vulnerable to litigation, such as doctors or attorneys.



Also, the grantor can reduce their taxable estate because the trust, and not they, owns the assets. In addition, the assets aren't taken into account where eligibility for government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are concerned.






Individuals may find it useful to have both a living trust and a will because, for the most part, they perform different functions. Moreover, a living trust goes into effect as soon as it's created and serves to protect the assets it holds while a person is living. A will goes into effect when a person passes away.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Living Trust  

A living trust is a powerful estate planning tool that allows you to maintain control over your assets while living and make the disposition of your estate an easier matter for your family after your death. As with most things, while it has its advantages, it has some disadvantages as well.


  Advantages  

Living trusts offer peace of mind to grantors because their loved ones can avoid the probate process when settling the estate.The distribution of assets after death can occur smoothly, quickly, and without court costs.In the event that you become incapacitated and can't manage the trust's assets yourself, your successor trustee (and not the courts) will manage them on your behalf.While you still pay taxes related to the assets in a (revocable) living trust, the tax rate doesn't increase.Living trusts can keep information relating to your estate private.They can protect your estate from creditors and legal challenges.


  Disadvantages  

A grantor loses ownership of, and control over, assets placed in an irrevocable living trust.Any assets to which the grantor owns the title, such as real estate, must be transferred with a legal change of the ownership of title.Title transfer involves filing fees to register title changes.The creation of living trust may require the help of an estate lawyer, which also has costs.Normally, a living trust offers no tax advantages (unless it's irrevocable and reduces the size of the grantor's taxable estate). Taxes would be owed on income generated by assets and on property.


   Living Trust vs. Will  
  Living Trust  

A living trust allows you to name beneficiaries and appoint a trustee to manage and distribute trust assets after your death. In turn, it allows your family to avoid the intrusion of probate for property distributed by the trust and other matters related to your estate.



Some individuals establish living trusts simply to avoid probate. However, they can be more complicated and costly to create than a will. Also, they require a notary public.



A living trust cannot designate an executor for a will or name guardians for minor children. Therefore, individuals with living trusts usually draw up a will, too.



A living trust takes effect immediately, once created and signed, and results in you being able to manage, control, and protect your assets thoughout your lifetime. It also means that this control, via your instructions in the living trust document, will extend beyond your death to the distribution of the assets to your beneficiaries.


  Will  

A will is a legal document that names an executor to carry out your wishes after you're gone. It directs how your assets should be distributed by the executor. It also designates guardians for minor children and includes instructions for other things, such as the payment of debts and taxes, debt forgiveness, and funeral arrangements.



The handling of a will, including the distribution of assets, involves the court-supervised process of probate. Probate is known to take a great deal of time and potentially to be expensive. What's more, matters relating to a will become public once a probate court is involved.



A will is not a complicated document to create and thus, is less costly than a living trust. It requires a witness to your signature but no notary public. It takes effect upon death or incapacitation.


   How to Create a Living Trust  

Normally, it's a smart idea to obtain the assistance of an estate lawyer to establish a living will. However, here's a general idea of the steps you'll take to create one.



Decide on the type of living trust you need: revocable or irrevocable.Designate your beneficiaries and the distribution percentages.Name a trustee who has agreed to administer your living trust after you're gone.Complete the living trust document, review it with your estate lawyer, and sign it in the presence of a notary public (a role your estate lawyer may also play).Fund the trust with the assets you've selected for it.Keep the original living trust document stored safely, for instance in a safe deposit box at your bank (check the contents periodically). Your estate lawyer will probably have a copy. Let your trustee know its location and how to access it when necessary.




Is a Living Will the Same As a Living Trust?
No. A living will is a directive written by an individual granting power of attorney and other rights to a trusted other if that individual becomes incapacitated or loses the ability to communicate. A living (or intervivos) trust establishes a legal entity (the trust), which holds assets that can be distributed without probate to beneficiaries after one's death.




How Much Does a Living Trust Cost?
Establishing a living trust usually requires an attorney. Depending on their rate, a revocable living trust can cost up to several thousand dollars. Because of the greater complexity, an irrevocable trust may cost more. These costs will vary by location and from law firm to law firm.




What Are Some Disadvantages of Living Trusts?
The downsides of trusts, aside from their cost, will depend on whether it is a revocable or irrevocable trust—each of which serves its own purpose. A revocable trust is not sheltered from tax authorities or creditors, which limits its usefulness as a way to protect assets while one is still alive. An irrevocable trust involves forfeiting all ownership and control of the assets put inside of it, along with very little flexibility in how the trust can be directed after it is established.


   The Bottom Line  

A living trust can be a very important legal arrangement for people with assets that they wish to control and protect during their lifetimes and beyond. Normally, it provides those who establish and fund them, the grantors, the power to control and benefit from their assets while living and direct how they should be distributed once they've passed away.



Living trusts normally bypass the time-consuming, costly probate process and facilitate the smooth transfer of assets to beneficiaries.
What Is a Living Wage?  

The term living wage refers to a theoretical income level that allows individuals or families to afford adequate shelter, food, and other necessities. The goal of a living wage is to allow employees to earn enough income for a satisfactory standard of living and prevent them from falling into poverty. Economists suggest it should be enough to ensure that no more than 30% of this income gets spent on housing. As such, living wages are often substantially higher than the legal minimum wage.





Key Takeaways

A living wage is a socially acceptable level of income that provides adequate coverage for basic necessities such as food, shelter, child services, and healthcare.The living wage standard allows for no more than 30% to be spent on rent or a mortgage and is sufficiently higher than the poverty level.The concept of living wages isn't new and dates back to early America when workers demanded higher pay.The living wage shouldn't be confused with the minimum wage, which is the lowest amount of money someone can earn as mandated by law.Supporters of living wages say they boost productivity and employee morale while critics argue they could hurt the economy and force corporations to reduce hiring.


   How a Living Wage Works  

What constitutes a living wage may vary slightly depending on who's defining it. According to the Global Living Wage Coalition, some 60+ definitions and descriptions of the term exist. Despite some deviations, the organization found certain common themes when comparing how it is defined in human rights declarations, by non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and from others. So what exactly is a living wage?



The general consensus is that a living wage is one that provides individuals with enough income to support themselves without falling below the federal poverty line (FPL). In essence, it gives workers and their families the means to maintain a decent standard of living so they can afford:



Housing
Healthcare
Food
Education
Regular savings
Other basic necessities



Although the idea of a living wage isn't new, it became a hot topic following the Great Recession. The economic crisis highlighted the fact that some individuals just can't afford to make ends meet. Some experts believe that people who don't earn a living wage face certain challenges, such as having to work more than one job, pulling their children out of school, and succumbing to unexpected health issues that they can't afford to address.



According to research from MIT, the living wage in the United States was $16.54 per hour, or $68,808 per year in 2019, before taxes, for a family of four (two working adults with two children) up from $16.14 in 2018. Of course, a living wage varies by family size and the cost of living in a particular city or location.


   History of the Living Wage  

As noted above, the movement for a reasonable living wage is hardly new. Boston ship carpenters came together in 1675 to demand higher pay. The American Federation of Labor (AFL), founded in 1886, proposed a general living wage that adequately supported a family and maintained a standard of living higher than the 19th-century European urban working class.



In 1938, Congress passed the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and established the first national minimum wage at $0.25/hour. The passage of the law marked a turning point for the labor movement in the United States. In 1968, the federal minimum wage was set at $1.60 an hour (about $14.23 per hour in 2023 dollars), but unfortunately, it begins a slow decline after the late '60s due to inflation.



In 2009, the federal minimum wage rose to $7.25 and remains there as of 2023; however, in some states, such as California and New York, the minimum wage for nonexempt workers is as high as $15 per hour.



In fact, many states, cities, and municipalities have minimum wages higher than the federal minimum wage. In 2022, 26 states increased their minimum wages even further above the federal minimum wage. There is a strong labor movement in the U.S., pressing for a $15 federal minimum wage.


   Living Wage vs. Minimum Wage  

Don't confuse the living wage with a minimum wage. The latter is the lowest amount of money a worker can earn as mandated by law. Many commentators argue that the federal minimum wage should be increased to align with a living wage. They point out that the minimum wage does not provide enough income to survive as it doesn't rise with inflation; the minimum wage can only increase with congressional action.



Although the minimum wage dollar amount has risen since its introduction by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1938, the constant dollar amount, which accounts for the effects of inflation, has decreased for American households since 1968.



Indeed, the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour, which, as noted above, has remained at that level since 2009, hasn't kept up with the cost of living since the late 1960s.



In 1968, the federal minimum wage was $1.60 per hour but had an inflation-adjusted value of around $14.23 per hour. Most states have their own minimum wage laws to try and align it more closely with a living wage. In some states, the minimum wage is actually below the federal minimum wage. When this occurs, the federal minimum applies.






The $15 per hour minimum wage movement is aimed at establishing a living wage.



In 2019, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amended version of the Raise the Wage Act of 2019, which would have gradually increased the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2025. The bill died in the Senate, but the debate about whether to lift the minimum wage rages on. Nonetheless, several states and cities have raised the local minimum wage to $15 or more, and several companies have done so voluntarily at their workplaces.


   Living Wage and Poverty Levels  

Poverty in the U.S. may partly have to do with the lack of a living wage in all states. The Raise the Wage Act of 2021, an updated version from 2019, could help reduce or eliminate low wages that do not lift families and individuals out of poverty. The bill aims to increase the federal minimum wage over five years for regular employees, along with those who receive tips and new workers under the age of 20.



The federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour in many states is not enough to raise a family of four above the federal poverty level, which is $30,000 in 2023. As such, working and earning the federal minimum wage isn't enough to get out of poverty for families and not enough money to be classified as a living wage.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Living Wage  

Living wages are very controversial. As such, the idea surrounding them and their effects on the economy are hotly debated. We've outlined some of the arguments for and against living wages.


  Advantages  

Supporters of a living wage argue that paying employees higher salaries actually benefits corporations as a whole. They claim that employees who earn a living wage end up being more satisfied, which helps to reduce staff turnover.



Another advantage to living wages is that they reduce corporate costs associated with recruitment and training. Proponents of living wages point out that higher wages boost employee morale, which can often lead to higher productivity. This, in turn, allows companies to benefit from increased worker output.


  Disadvantages  

Despite the obvious support, there are critics who suggest leaders should scrap the idea of living wages altogether. Naysayers believe that implementing a living wage establishes a wage floor, which harms the economy by hurting companies, especially small businesses that can't afford to raise salaries.



Moreover, companies may reduce the number of employees hired if they are forced to pay increased wages. This creates higher unemployment, resulting in a deadweight loss, as people who would work for less than a living wage no longer get offered employment.





Pros

Benefits corporations
Boosts employee satisfaction
Reduces corporate turnover
Lowers recruitment and training costs



Cons

Creates wage floors
Harms economy
Reduces hiring
Increases unemployment through deadweight loss





   Calculating the Living Wage  

As noted above, a living wage is not the same thing as a minimum wage. Earning a living wage means you can pay necessary costs, including shelter, food, healthcare, childcare, taxes, and transportation. In addition, a living wage may be different depending on your circumstances, including the state and town in which you live. In 2004, MIT created a Living Wage Calculator, which is updated in the first quarter of every year.



This online calculator provides the living wage, minimum wage, and poverty wage for 50 states plus counties and the District of Columbia. If you use the calculator, first plug in the state, then choose from a list of counties. The calculator shows you the wages for individuals, couples (one or both working), and families with up to three children.


   Alternatives to a Living Wage  

One alternative to a living wage could be a liveable federal minimum wage that allows individuals and families to earn enough to pay for basic necessities and medical care.



Another alternative is a universal basic income from the federal government that covers basic living costs. There are various plans around universal income, from only giving money to those earning below the poverty line to paying every citizen a certain amount of money.



The U.S. does not offer this type of income yet, although some might suggest President Biden's $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan is a step in this direction. In July 2021, families who qualified received government-issued cash benefits for each child. The program lasted only for 2021.




What Is the U.S. Livable Wage for 2022?
The livable wage in the United States varies state by state. For 2022, the highest livable wage is for Hawaii, in the amount of $45,739. The lowest livable wage is for South Dakota, in the amount of $30,888. New York has a livable wage of $45,739, California of $45,386, Texas of $34,133, and Wisconsin of $34,112, to provide a few examples.




Is $15 an Hour Considered a Livable Wage?
Raising the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour from the current $7.25 an hour would still not provide a livable wage to many low-income adults and families in certain locations. Earning $15/hour at a full-time job would equate to approximately $31,200 before taxes, meaning that this increase would still not meet a livable wage in most states.




What Is the Difference Between a Living Wage and a Minimum Wage?
A minimum wage is the lowest amount a worker can be paid hourly determined by law. Paying an individual below the minimum wage is illegal. A living wage is the amount an individual or family would need to make to avoid living in poverty. This amount is usually higher than the minimum wage and is not mandated by law.
What Is a Living Will?  

A living will—also known as an advance directive—is a legal document that specifies the type of medical care that an individual does or does not want in the event they are unable to communicate their wishes.



In the case of an unconscious person who suffers from a terminal illness or a life-threatening injury, doctors and hospitals consult the living will to determine whether or not the patient wants life-sustaining treatment, such as assisted breathing or tube feeding. In the absence of a living will, decisions about medical care become the responsibility of the spouse, family members, or other third parties. These individuals may be unaware of the patient’s desires, or they may not wish to follow the patient’s unwritten, verbal directives.





Key Takeaways

A living will is a legal document detailing the type and level of medical care one wants to receive if they are unable to make decisions or communicate their wishes when care is needed.A living will addresses many life-threatening treatments and procedures, such as resuscitation, ventilation, and dialysis.A person can appoint a healthcare proxy to make decisions regarding care when they are unable to do so.A living trust is a legal document that addresses how the assets of the incapacitated person should be managed.People can enlist the services of an estate planner or an attorney to help draft or review a living will.


   Understanding a Living Will  

Living wills and advance directives come into play only when one faces a life-threatening condition and is unable to communicate their desires for treatment. Doctors don’t consult the wills for standard medical care that doesn’t involve life-threatening situations.



Every state provides for the drafting of a living will, although some states call the document a medical directive or a health-care proxy. Some states let you prepare a detailed, customized living will, while others require you to fill out a standardized form.


   What Is Included In a Living Will?  

A living will addresses many of the medical procedures common in life-threatening situations, such as resuscitation via electric shock, ventilation, and dialysis. One can choose to allow some of these procedures or none of them. One can also indicate whether they wish to donate organs and tissues after death. Even if the patient refuses life-sustaining care, they can express the desire to receive pain medication throughout their final hours.






People who reside or spend a lot of time in another state should ensure that their living will is valid in both places as rules vary per state.



In most states, one can extend the living will to cover situations where there is no brain activity or where doctors expect them to remain unconscious for the rest of their life, even if a terminal illness or life-threatening injury isn’t present. Because these situations can occur to any person at any age, it’s a good idea for all adults to have a living will.


   How To Make a Living Will  

Before making a living will, it's best to understand that it will not serve as a last will and testament, whereby property and personal effects are allocated to others upon death. A living will stipulates the type and levels of medical care one receives if incapacitated and for how long.



The living will details the goals and wishes of a person in the event they can no longer care or make decisions for themselves. When creating a will, consider how you want to integrate your personal or religious beliefs into the care received.



It might be helpful to segment the living will into categories of care. You could first identify the circumstances in which care should be extended to preserve life and what types of life-saving or preserving care, such as blood transfusions and dialysis, should be administered.



Include a category to address whether you want care if you are in a vegetative or unconscious state. Indicate where you want to receive medical care: nursing home, at home, or in some other facility. You can also request how nutrition will be provided, whether it be given intravenously, by mouth, or withheld.



Another category to consider is pain management. Indicate the types and levels of treatment to manage pain. You can further break down this category into life-sustaining pain management and pain management in lieu of life-sustaining care.



If you have family or friends who will be responsible for overseeing your care, discuss your plans with them. It might be helpful to include them in the decision-making process as they might have insight into areas otherwise overlooked when planning alone. Lastly, enlist the help of a professional, such as an estate planner or attorney. These experts can help you make decisions for the best possible outcomes.


   Healthcare Proxy  

In addition to the living will, one can select a health-care proxy who is allowed to make decisions if they are incapable of making those choices. Some states call this individual a healthcare power of attorney. Living wills cover many medical decisions, but a health-care proxy can consult with the doctor on other issues that may arise.



When facing the loss of a loved one, families often disagree over treatment, so having a healthcare proxy reduces confusion over one's final wishes. One should discuss wishes with the proxy before naming this person and be sure the proxy is willing to follow through with their desires.


   Living Will vs. Living Trust  

Although a living will and a living trust are commonly referred to in estate planning, they are different. A living will involves how the subject person will be cared for if in a compromised or incapacitated state. This medical directive terminates upon the death of that person.



A living trust deals with the property and assets of an incapacitated person. The trust essentially becomes the new owner of the assets. Under the living trust agreement, a trustee, or the person or persons responsible for managing the assets, is identified. Just as a living will deals with a living person, a living trust deals with the assets of a living person. They both are executed when the initiator lacks the capacity to make decisions for themselves.




Do I Lose Control of My Living Will If I Appoint a Proxy?
You will not lose control of your living will while you have the ability or capacity to make decisions. If incapacitated, the proxy has the legal authority to act on your behalf, making decisions about your healthcare.Review the living will with the proxy to ensure they understand your wishes and agree to enforce them when needed.




What Is the Difference Between a Living Will and a Last Will and Testament?
A living will addresses the type of medical treatment given to a person who is unable to make those decisions for themselves. The living will carries out the expressed wishes regarding the medical care of a person should they become unable to manage their care.The last will and testament are the expressed wishes of a person regarding how their assets will be allocated or disposed of upon their death.




What Is a Bank’s Living Will?
A bank's living will is a legal report filed annually by companies instructing how the business will be liquidated in the event of insolvency. Banks with at least $50 billion in assets are required to file a living will with regulators.
What Is an LLC Operating Agreement?  

An LLC operating agreement is a document that customizes the terms of a limited liability company according to the specific needs of its members. It also outlines the financial and functional decision-making in a structured manner. It is similar to articles of incorporation that govern the operations of a corporation.



Although writing an operating agreement is not a mandatory requirement for most states, it is nonetheless considered a crucial document that should be included when setting up a limited liability company. The document, once signed by each member (owner), acts as a binding set of rules for them to adhere to.



The agreement is drafted to allow owners to govern the internal operations according to their own rules and specifications. The absence of an operating agreement means that your business has to be run according to the default rules of your state.





Key Takeaways

An LLC operating agreement is a legal document that spells out the terms of a limited liability company to the members.It sets forth the path for the business to follow and brings in more clarity in operations and management.In some states, the operating agreement is required as part of establishing the business entity.LLC operating agreements have some boilerplate sections with standard language, but one size does not necessarily fit all.If an LLC does not have an operating agreement, it must be governed according to the default rules of that state.


   How LLC Operating Agreements Work  

An LLC is a type of U.S. business entity that is easy to form and simple to manage, and importantly limits the liability of owners. Since an LLC is a hybrid of a partnership and corporation, it provides the twin benefit of pass-through taxation with limited liability.



To take full advantage of having an LLC, you should go one step further and write an operating agreement during the startup process. Many tend to overlook this crucial document since it is not a mandatory requirement in many states. Only a few states specify the need to register an operating agreement when creating an LLC.



The operating agreement is thus a document that spells out the terms of a limited liability company (LLC) according to the members. It sets forth the path for the business to follow and brings in more clarity in operations and management. A typical LLC operating agreement is a 10- to 20-page contract document which sets up guidelines and rules for the LLC.



In states such as California, Missouri, and New York, it is mandatory to include this document during the incorporation process. While most other states do not insist on including it, it is always considered wise to draft an operating agreement, as it protects the status of a company, comes in handy in times of misunderstandings, and helps in carrying out the business according to the rules set by the members.



Businesses that do not sign an operating agreement fall under the default rules outlined by the states. In such a case the rules imposed by the state will be very general in nature and may not be right for every business. For example, in the absence of an operating agreement, some states may stipulate that all profits in an LLC are shared equally by each partner regardless of each party's capital contribution. An agreement can also protect partners from any personal liability if it appears they are operating as a sole proprietorship or a partnership.






An operating agreement, once signed, should be kept safely as an important record of the business.


   Benefits of an LLC Operating Agreement  

Even if a business venture only has a single owner/employee, it can still be beneficial to codify the relationship with an LLC operating agreement. Having an operating agreement establishes a legal boundary between the LLC and the owner, so that the owner is not held accountable for the LLC's debts or liabilities. Otherwise, creditors to the LLC may pursue the owner's personal assets.



An operating agreement also allows the owner to codify the rules of succession for their business, as well as governance procedures such as meetings and voting. Without an operating agreement, ownership of the business is handled according to the state's default LLC rules.


   What to Include in an LLC Operating Agreement  

There are many issues that must be covered in the LLC operating agreement. The general format of the document includes the following:



Each member's ownership expressed as a percentageThe members' responsibilities and voting rightsA layout of the duties and powers of membersThe profit and loss allocation among membersThe rules related to holding meetings and taking votesThe issues related to the management of the LLCBuyout and buy-sell provisions, when a member wants to leave and sell their share (should also include what will happen in the event of a member's death)



LLC operating agreements should also outline the specific definitions of terms used in the agreement, as well as list the purpose of the business, a statement of its intent to form, how it will handle new members, how it chooses to be taxed, how long it intends to operate, and where it is located.



Just as “one size doesn’t fit all,” the state default LLC rules don’t suit all. The best way to counter this problem is by writing an operating agreement, which gives freedom, protection, and control to your business. Though it's best to include an operating agreement in the initial stages, if you have missed on that, it’s never too late to put it in place, provided all members agree to it. The document can also be modified at a later stage with the guidance and help of an attorney.




If I Have an LLC Operating Agreement Do I Need a Business Plan?
There's no legal requirement for an LLC to have a written business plan, but there are still clear advantages to having one. A well-structured business plan is an important tool to set out the goals and values of an enterprise and provides an objective way of assessing whether or not those goals are being met.




Does an LLC Have Shares of Stock Like a Corporation?
No. While it is sometimes common to describe LLC membership as a "share," this is not the same as stock units in a corporation. While members of an LLC have the right to share profits and make decisions concerning their company, an LLC cannot raise money by issuing stock shares.




What Is the Difference Between a Partnership and an LLC?
A partnership is a comparatively simple vehicle for business relationships. Unlike an LLC, there is no requirement for formal paperwork: a partnership is considered to have formed whenever two or more partners go into business together.Also, unlike an LLC, partners may be held personally liable for the partnership's business obligations–meaning that creditors may seek repayment from the personal assets of individual partners. In contrast, the members of an LLC are legally distinct from their business organization.




Can an LLC Operating Agreement Be Amended?
Yes, LLC operating agreements can generally be amended, but the procedures for doing so will vary. In most cases, the process of amending an operating agreement should be spelled out in the agreement itself: some LLCs might specify that they can only be amended by a unanimous vote of the members, or that they can only be amended in the fourth quarter of the year. It is even possible for an LLC to have an operating agreement that cannot be amended. If it is not clearly stated, the process for amending an operating agreement is determined by the default rules for LLCs in that state.




Does a Single Member LLC Need an Operating Agreement?
A handful of states require all LLC's to have an operating agreement, even if they have only one member. These include New York, Missouri, and California. In the other states, it is not required, but it is strongly encouraged, since they can protect the members from problems that the LLC may encounter.
What Is Lloyd’s of London?  

Lloyd’s of London, often referred to today simply as Lloyd’s, is an insurance and reinsurance marketplace. Its members operate as syndicates to provide insurance coverage for businesses, organizations, and individuals. The syndicates specialize in different types of risks, and each syndicate decides which risks to insure.



The main purpose of Lloyd’s is to facilitate transactions between insurance buyers and sellers. 





Key Takeaways

Lloyd’s of London, or Lloyd’s, is an insurance and reinsurance marketplace.Members, which can be companies or individuals, operate as syndicates, specializing in different types of risks.There are five key players at Lloyd’s: syndicates, insurance buyers, brokers, managing agents, and coverholders.


   Understanding Lloyd’s of London  

Lloyd’s is not an insurance company. Rather, it is a corporate body governed by the Lloyd’s Act of 1871 and subsequent acts of the British parliament. It operates as a partially mutualized marketplace consisting of multiple financial backers, grouped into syndicates, which pool and spread risks. These underwriters, or “members,” include both companies and private individuals, the latter of which are known as “names.” In essence, Lloyd’s is a marketplace where buyers of insurance and sellers of insurance can conduct business.



The market also includes brokers, who help match buyers and sellers, and managing agents, who run syndicates on a day-to-day basis.


   Key Players at Lloyd’s of London  

There are five main groups in the Lloyd’s marketplace. They are syndicates, insurance buyers, brokers, managing agents, and coverholders.


  Syndicates  

The central players at Lloyd’s, syndicates can consist of companies or individuals. The syndicates function basically as insurance companies that offer a specific type of insurance. More than one syndicate can participate in an insurance contract, thereby spreading the risk among multiple syndicates.


  Insurance Buyers  

Insurance buyers are, obviously enough, the individuals or companies wishing to purchase insurance. Many times, if a traditional insurance company is unwilling to provide the type or amount of coverage that a buyer wants, perhaps for a particularly risky business, they can find willing insurance sellers among the syndicates at Lloyd’s.


  Brokers  

As with other kinds of brokers, the brokers at Lloyd’s act as go-betweens for the insurance buyers and the syndicates, helping match the buyer to the appropriate syndicate. Brokers at Lloyd’s must be approved by the Corporation of Lloyd’s to be allowed to do business in the marketplace.


  Managing Agents  

The managing agents work for the syndicates and run their daily operations. For example, they are responsible for hiring and overseeing all essential staff, such as underwriters and accountants.


  Coverholders  

Coverholders are companies that managing agents authorize to enter into insurance contracts to be underwritten by the syndicates. Coverholders allow Lloyd’s to operate globally without having to set up shop in many locations.



As of early 2022, Lloyd’s had 76 syndicates, 350 brokers, and 4,030 coverholder locations. Collectively, Lloyd’s had more than 200 lines of business and wrote £35.5 billion of gross premiums.






Although Lloyd’s of London is not an insurance company, Lloyd’s Europe and Lloyd’s China, which are parts of Lloyd’s of London, operate as insurance companies.Lloyd’s Europe is a fully operational, capitalized insurance company, authorized and regulated by the National Bank of Belgium, and regulated by the Financial Services and Markets Authority. Lloyd’s Europe is licensed to write nonlife risks across the European Economic Area, Monaco, and the United Kingdom.Lloyd’s China can conduct nonlife insurance and reinsurance business inside China and international reinsurance as well.


   Lloyd’s of London History  

With its roots in marine insurance, Lloyd’s was founded by Edward Lloyd at his coffeehouse on London’s Tower Street in 1688. The establishment was popular with sailors, shipowners, and merchants, and Lloyd catered to them with reliable shipping news. Lloyd’s coffeehouse soon became known as a good place to purchase insurance to cover ships and their cargoes against the perils of the seas.



The shop was also frequented by mariners involved in the slave trade. Lloyd’s obtained a monopoly on maritime insurance related to the slave trade and maintained it until the early 19th century. The Lloyd’s website offers an apology for that role, saying, in part: “We are deeply sorry for the Lloyd’s market’s participation in the transatlantic slave trade. It is part of our shared history that caused enormous suffering and continues to have a negative impact on Black and Minority Ethnic communities today.”



The original Lloyd’s Act gave the business a sound legal footing. The Lloyd’s Act of 1911 set out the organization’s objectives, which includes the promotion of its members’ interests and the collection and dissemination of information. Today, Lloyd’s has its headquarters on Lime Street, in a landmark building that opened in 1986.




What is underwriting?
Underwriting refers to taking on risk in return for a fee. Part of the underwriting process is assessing the risk involved and setting the fee accordingly.




What is reinsurance?
Reinsurance is a way that insurance companies protect themselves from risk by, for example, transferring a portion of their portfolio to other insurers in exchange for a share of the premiums.




What is marine insurance?
One of the oldest forms of insurance, marine insurance can cover ships, their cargoes, and related risks. The hull of the Titanic, for example, was insured for a total of £1 million, with multiple Lloyd’s syndicates taking on portions of the policy.


   The Bottom Line  

Lloyd’s of London, commonly known as Lloyd’s, is a major marketplace for insurance and reinsurance. While not an insurer itself, it provides a venue for insurance buyers and its member sellers, known as syndicates, to do business.
What Is a Load?  

A load is a sales charge or commission charged to an investor when buying or redeeming shares in a mutual fund. Sales charge commissions can be structured in a number of ways. They are determined by the mutual fund company and charged by mutual fund intermediaries in mutual fund transactions.



Common types of sales charges include front-end loads and back-end loads. Funds with loads may be contrasted with no-load mutual funds.





Key Takeaways

A load is a sales charge paid by mutual fund investors to the brokers or agents who sell the fund to them.Front-end loads are incurred at time of purchase, and may carry lower net expense ratios as a result.Back-end loads are incurred when investors sell their fund shares, but these load amounts may taper off over time to zero after 10 years or more have passed.No-load funds are increasingly popular option that has no sales load on either end and are typically sold directly by the fund company or one of their partners.


   How Sales Loads Work  

A load is a sales charge that compensates an intermediary for distributing shares of a mutual fund. Loads vary by share class and are determined by the mutual fund company. Mutual fund companies structure sales charges by share class. They provide a sales charge schedule in the mutual fund’s prospectus.



Loads can be front-end, back-end, or level. Front-end and back-end loads are paid directly to intermediaries by the investor and are not accounted for in the fund’s net asset value (NAV) calculations.


  Front End Load  

Front-end loads are typically associated with A-share classes. This sales charge occurs when the investor buys the fund. Front-end loads can range up to approximately 5.75%. Investors may opt to pay up-front fees for several reasons. For instance, front-end loads eliminate the need to continually pay additional fees and commissions as time progresses, allowing the capital to grow unimpeded over the long-term. Mutual fund A-shares—the class that carries front-end loads—pay lower expense ratios than other shares pay. Expense ratios are the annual management and marketing fees.



Further, funds that don't carry up-front fees often charge an annual maintenance fee that increases along with the value of the client's money, meaning the investor may wind up paying more. In contrast, front-end loads are often discounted as the size of the investment grows.



On the downside, since front-end loads are taken out of your original investment, less of your money is going to work for you. Given the benefits of compounding, less money at the outset has an impact on the way your money grows. Over the long-term, it may not matter, but front-end-loaded funds are not optimal if you have a short investment horizon; you won't have a chance to recoup the sales charge through realizing earnings over time.


   Back End Load  

Back-end loads can be associated with B-shares or C-shares. The back-end load is paid when an investor sells the fund. In class B-shares, the back-end load is typically contingent deferred which means it decreases over time. A back-end load can be a flat fee or can gradually decrease over time, usually within five to 10 years. In the latter case, the fee percentage is highest in the first year and decreases yearly until the specified holding period ends, at which time it drops to zero.



A back-end load should not be confused with a redemption fee, which some mutual funds charge to discourage frequent trading that can sometimes interfere with the fund's investment objective.






Investors may automatically assume load funds are the better choice over no-load funds, but that may not be the case. Fees on load funds go to pay the investor or fund manager who does research and makes investing decisions on the client's behalf. 


   Other Fund Expenses  

Any type of payment to an intermediary for distribution services can be considered a load. Mutual fund investors pay annual operating expenses which are accounted for in the fund’s net asset value. A portion of the fund’s operating expenses may include a 12b-1 fee, also called a level-load. This fee is paid by the mutual fund to the intermediary annually and is quoted as a percent of a share classes assets.



For example, the Principal Equity Income Fund offers investors A, C, and I shares. The A-shares have a front-end sales charge of 5.50% and a back-end sales charge of 1.00%. The C-shares have no front-end sales charge and a back-end sales charge of 1.00%. Both share classes have a 12b-1 level-load included with the fund’s operating expenses. The A share class pays a smaller level-load than the C-shares at 0.25% since it offers higher front-end load compensation. The C share class charges a level-load of 1.00%.



Investors may also incur redemption fees. Redemption fees are not paid to intermediaries and therefore are not considered to be a load. These fees are charged on the back-end and help to compensate the fund for transaction costs incurred from short-term investors. Redemption fees may be charged if an investor redeems shares within 30 days to a year from their initial investment.


   Sales Load Considerations  

Sales charges are commissions agreed upon between mutual fund companies and intermediaries. They are typically charged by full service brokers and mutual fund distributors. Investors can potentially avoid sales loads by buying and selling mutual fund shares through a discount brokerage platform. Oftentimes, investors can also avoid sales loads by investing in mutual funds through a retirement plan.



Most mutual funds offer breakpoints, rights of accumulation and letter of intent options with sales load discounts. These discounts are associated with larger investments in the fund and are outlined in the fund’s prospectus.


   No-Load Funds  

A no-load fund is a mutual fund in which shares are sold without a commission or sales charge. This absence of fees occurs because the shares are distributed directly by the investment company, instead of going through a secondary party. This absence of a sales charges is the opposite of a load fund—either front-load or back-load—which charges a commission at the time of the fund's purchase or sale. Also, some mutual funds are level-load funds where fees continue for as long as the investor holds the fund.
What Is a Load Fund?  

A load fund is a mutual fund that comes with a sales charge or commission. The fund investor pays the load, which goes to compensate a sales intermediary, such as a broker, financial planner, or investment advisor, for his time and expertise in selecting an appropriate fund for the investor. The load is either paid upfront at the time of purchase (front-end load), when the shares are sold (back-end load), or as long as the fund is held by the investor (level-load). Load funds may be contrasted with no-load funds, which do not carry a sales charge.





Key Takeaways

A load fund entails mutual fund shares that carry a sales commission paid by the fund purchaser.Loads may be paid at time of purchase (front-load) or at time of sale (back-load), and are often paid to a broker or agent who sold the fund.The way the load will be paid will vary depending on the mutual fund share class involved.


   Understanding Load Funds  

If a fund limits its level load to no more than 0.25% (the maximum is 1%) it can call itself a "no-load" fund in its marketing literature. Front-end and back-end loads are not part of a mutual fund's operating expenses and are typically paid out to the selling broker and the broker-dealer as a commission. However, level-loads, called 12b-1 fees, are included as operating expenses. Funds that do not charge a load are called no-load funds, which are typically sold directly by the mutual fund company or through their partners.



Investors may automatically assume no-load funds are the better choice over load funds, but that may not be the case. Fees on load funds go to pay the investor or fund manager who does research and makes investment decisions on the client's behalf. These experts can sort through mutual funds and help investors make smart investment decisions they may not have the skill or knowledge to make on their own. Paying upfront fees can also eliminate the need to sap investment returns by paying continual expense fees on the returns the fund achieves. 



The main disadvantage, of course, is the load itself. No-load mutual funds now exist as options that carry no sales charge.



In the 1970s, mutual fund companies came under criticism for the high front-end sales loads they charged along with excessive fees and other hidden charges. As a result, they introduced multiple share classes giving investors several options for paying sales charges.



Class A Shares: Class A shares are the traditional front-end load funds that charge an upfront sales charge on the amount invested. Most class A funds offer breakpoint discounts that reduce the sales charge for purchases at higher thresholds. For investors with larger amounts of money to invest over a long period of time, class A shares can be the lowest cost option due to the breakpoint discounts.
Class B Shares: Class B shares include a back-end load or contingent deferred sales charge (CDSC), which is deducted when selling the shares. Class B share funds do not offer breakpoint discounts, although the CDSC decreases over a five- to an eight-year timeframe. At that point, the shares are converted to class A shares with no back-end load. Some class B share funds also charge annual 12b-1 fees, which can increase investment costs over time. When Class B shares are converted to Class A shares, the 12b-1 fees go away. Class B shares with a low expense ratio can be a better option when smaller investments are made with a long holding period.
Class C Shares: Class C share funds also charge a CDSC, but it is typically lower than Class B shares. Class C shares rely more heavily on 12b-1 fees, which tend to be higher than Class B shares, and they can last indefinitely. Class C share funds do not offer any breakpoint discounts. Because of higher 12b-1 fees, Class C shares can be the most expensive option over the long term.
What Is a Loan?  

The term loan refers to a type of credit vehicle in which a sum of money is lent to another party in exchange for future repayment of the value or principal amount. In many cases, the lender also adds interest or finance charges to the principal value, which the borrower must repay in addition to the principal balance.



Loans may be for a specific, one-time amount, or they may be available as an open-ended line of credit up to a specified limit. Loans come in many different forms including secured, unsecured, commercial, and personal loans.





Key Takeaways

A loan is when money is given to another party in exchange for repayment of the loan principal amount plus interest.Lenders will consider a prospective borrower's income, credit score, and debt levels before deciding to offer them a loan.A loan may be secured by collateral, such as a mortgage, or it may be unsecured, such as a credit card.Revolving loans or lines can be spent, repaid, and spent again, while term loans are fixed-rate, fixed-payment loans.Lenders may charge higher interest rates to risky borrowers.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Loans  

A loan is a form of debt incurred by an individual or other entity. The lender—usually a corporation, financial institution, or government—advances a sum of money to the borrower. In return, the borrower agrees to a certain set of terms including any finance charges, interest, repayment date, and other conditions.



In some cases, the lender may require collateral to secure the loan and ensure repayment. Loans may also take the form of bonds and certificates of deposit (CDs). It is also possible to take a loan from a 401(k) account.


   The Loan Process  

Here's how the loan process works: When someone needs money, they apply for a loan from a bank, corporation, government, or other entity. The borrower may be required to provide specific details such as the reason for the loan, their financial history, Social Security number (SSN), and other information. The lender reviews this information as well as a person's debt-to-income (DTI) ratio to determine if the loan can be paid back.



Based on the applicant's creditworthiness, the lender either denies or approves the application. The lender must provide a reason should the loan application be denied. If the application is approved, both parties sign a contract that outlines the details of the agreement. The lender advances the proceeds of the loan, after which the borrower must repay the amount including any additional charges, such as interest.



The terms of a loan are agreed to by each party before any money or property changes hands or is disbursed. If the lender requires collateral, the lender outlines this in the loan documents. Most loans also have provisions regarding the maximum amount of interest, in addition to other covenants, such as the length of time before repayment is required.


   Why Are Loans Used?  

Loans are advanced for a number of reasons, including major purchases, investing, renovations, debt consolidation, and business ventures. Loans also help existing companies expand their operations. Loans allow for growth in the overall money supply in an economy and open up competition by lending to new businesses.



The interest and fees from loans are a primary source of revenue for many banks as well as some retailers through the use of credit facilities and credit cards.


   Components of a Loan  

There are several important terms that determine the size of a loan and how quickly the borrower can pay it back:



Principal: This is the original amount of money that is being borrowed.
Loan Term: The amount of time that the borrower has to repay the loan.
Interest Rate: The rate at which the amount of money owed increases, usually expressed in terms of an annual percentage rate (APR).
Loan Payments: The amount of money that must be paid every month or week in order to satisfy the terms of the loan. Based on the principal, loan term, and interest rate, this can be determined from an amortization table.



In addition, the lender may also tack on additional fees, such as an origination fee, servicing fee, or late payment fees. For larger loans, they may also require collateral, such as real estate or a vehicle. If the borrower defaults on the loan, these assets may be seized to pay off the remaining debt.


   Tips on Getting a Loan  

In order to qualify for a loan, prospective borrowers need to show that they have the ability and financial discipline to repay the lender. There are several factors that lenders consider when deciding if a particular borrower is worth the risk:



Income: For larger loans, lenders may require a certain income threshold, thereby ensuring that the borrower will have no trouble making payments. They may also require several years of stable employment, especially in the case of home mortgages.Credit Score: A credit score is a numerical representation of a person's creditworthiness, based on their history of borrowing and repayment. Missed payments and bankruptcies can cause serious damage to a person's credit score.Debt-to-Income Ratio: In addition to one's income, lenders also check the borrower's credit history to check how many active loans they have at the same time. A high level of debt indicates that the borrower may have difficulty repaying their debts.



In order to increase the chance of qualifying for a loan, it is important to demonstrate that you can use debt responsibly. Pay off your loans and credit cards promptly and avoid taking on any unnecessary debt. This will also qualify you for lower interest rates.



It is still possible to qualify for loans if you have a lot of debt or a poor credit score, but these will likely come with a higher interest rate. Since these loans are much more expensive in the long run, you are much better off trying to improve your credit scores and debt-to-income ratio.


   Relationship Between Interest Rates and Loans  

Interest rates have a significant effect on loans and the ultimate cost to the borrower. Loans with higher interest rates have higher monthly payments—or take longer to pay off—than loans with lower interest rates. For example, if a person borrows $5,000 on a five-year installment or term loan with a 4.5% interest rate, they face a monthly payment of $93.22 for the following five years. In contrast, if the interest rate is 9%, the payments climb to $103.79.






Higher interest rates come with higher monthly payments, meaning they take longer to pay off than loans with lower rates.



Similarly, if a person owes $10,000 on a credit card with a 6% interest rate and they pay $200 each month, it will take them 58 months, or nearly five years, to pay off the balance. With a 20% interest rate, the same balance, and the same $200 monthly payments, it will take 108 months, or nine years, to pay off the card.


  Simple vs. Compound Interest  

The interest rate on loans can be set at simple or compound interest. Simple interest is interest on the principal loan. Banks almost never charge borrowers simple interest. For example, let's say an individual takes out a $300,000 mortgage from the bank, and the loan agreement stipulates that the interest rate on the loan is 15% annually. As a result, the borrower will have to pay the bank a total of $345,000 or $300,000 x 1.15.



Compound interest is interest on interest, and that means more money in interest has to be paid by the borrower. The interest is not only applied to the principal but also the accumulated interest of previous periods. The bank assumes that at the end of the first year, the borrower owes it the principal plus interest for that year. At the end of the second year, the borrower owes the bank the principal and the interest for the first year plus the interest on interest for the first year.



With compounding, the interest owed is higher than that of the simple interest method because interest is charged monthly on the principal loan amount, including accrued interest from the previous months. For shorter time frames, the calculation of interest is similar for both methods. As the lending time increases, the disparity between the two types of interest calculations grows.



If you're looking to take out a loan to pay for personal expenses, then a personal loan calculator can help you find the interest rate that best suits your needs.


   Types of Loans  

Loans come in many different forms. There are a number of factors that can differentiate the costs associated with them along with their contractual terms.


  Secured vs. Unsecured Loan  

Loans can be secured or unsecured. Mortgages and car loans are secured loans, as they are both backed or secured by collateral. In these cases, the collateral is the asset for which the loan is taken out, so the collateral for a mortgage is the home, while the vehicle secures a car loan. Borrowers may be required to put up other forms of collateral for other types of secured loans if required.



Credit cards and signature loans are unsecured loans. This means they are not backed by any collateral. Unsecured loans usually have higher interest rates than secured loans because the risk of default is higher than secured loans. That's because the lender of a secured loan can repossess the collateral if the borrower defaults. Rates tend to vary wildly on unsecured loans depending on multiple factors, such as the borrower's credit history.


  Revolving vs. Term Loan  

Loans can also be described as revolving or term. A revolving loan can be spent, repaid, and spent again, while a term loan refers to a loan paid off in equal monthly installments over a set period. A credit card is an unsecured, revolving loan, while a home equity line of credit (HELOC) is a secured, revolving loan. In contrast, a car loan is a secured, term loan, and a signature loan is an unsecured, term loan.




What Is a Loan Shark?
A loan shark is a slang term for predatory lenders who give informal loans at extremely high interest rates, often to people with little credit or collateral. Because these loan terms may not be legally enforceable, loan sharks have sometimes resorted to intimidation or violence in order to ensure repayment.




How Can You Reduce Your Total Loan Cost?
The best way to reduce your total loan cost is to pay more than the minimum payment whenever possible. This reduces the amount of interest that accumulates, eventually allowing you to pay off the loan early. Be warned, however, that some loans may have early pre-payment penalties.




How Do You Become a Loan Officer?
A loan officer is a bank employee who is responsible for approving mortgages, car loans, and other loans. Each state has different licensing requirements, but the standard is at least 20 hours of pre-licensing classes.In addition, mortgage loan officers must pass the NMLS National Test, in addition to a criminal background check and credit check. Commercial loan officers have fewer requirements, but their employers may still require additional credentials.


   The Bottom Line  

Loans are one of the basic building blocks of the financial economy. By loaning out money with interest, lenders are able to provide funding for economic activity while being compensated for their risk. From small personal loans to billion-dollar corporate debts, lending money is an essential function of the modern economy.
What Is a Loan Application Fee?  

A loan application fee is charged to a potential borrower for processing and underwriting an application for a loan, such as a mortgage or car loan. Loan application fees may be required for all types of loans and are intended to pay for the costs of the process of loan approval, but are considered by many observers to be unnecessary or overly costly.





Key Takeaways

A loan application fee is an up-front, usually nonrefundable charge for submitting a loan application such as for a mortgage.Some critics argue that application fees are unnecessary "garbage fees" that line the pockets of lenders and increase closing costs.Comparing fees can save you hundreds or even thousands of dollars, and you may even avoid paying an application fee to some lenders.


   Understanding Loan Application Fees  

A loan application fee is one type of fee borrowers may be charged for obtaining a loan. Different from other types of loan fees, the loan application fee is an up-front, usually nonrefundable, charge that borrowers are required to pay when they submit a loan application. Loan application fees will vary by lender, and many lenders will not charge a loan application fee at all.



Because most loan application fees are nonrefundable, they present a high risk for low-credit-quality borrowers. Therefore, borrowers should first do due diligence on their own credit score and the standard approval requirements for the type of loan they wish to obtain in order to ensure that the application fee will not be lost with a credit application rejection.



Borrowers should also seek to compare application fees across lenders. Loan application fees can vary significantly among different types of lenders, ranging on a mortgage loan anywhere from $0 to $500. Thus, researching loan options and application fees with various competitors can potentially result in hundreds of dollars saved. Some lenders may also be willing to waive the application fee through negotiation or comparison to other competitor market fees.


   Special Considerations  

Online lenders generally require the lowest application fee, thanks to automated processing that does not require some of the added expenses associated with traditional and in-person loan consultations. Loan application fees are typically most common in a mortgage loan, which includes many ad hoc fees in addition to the monthly interest. Working with a mortgage broker can increase the likelihood of a loan application fee because the broker works as an intermediary on behalf of both the borrower and the lender.


   Types of Loan Fees  

Loan application fees are just one type of fee lenders can charge on a loan. Other fees may include an origination fee and monthly service fees. In general, fees help a lender cover costs associated with underwriting and processing a loan.



In the credit market, mortgage loans tend to have the broadest fee requirements. Mortgage lenders may charge origination fees, appraisal fees, and administration fees. In some cases, a mortgage lender may bundle its fees by charging a closing points fee, which is a comprehensive fee calculated as a percentage of the principal balance.



The loan application fee is sometimes considered to be a garbage, or junk fee, which are often unnecessary charges and fees that are tacked onto mortgage closing costs by lenders. Lenders do this to increase their own profit on the loan. There are a number of ways that lenders manage to fold garbage fees into closing costs.
What Is a Loan Commitment?  

A loan commitment is an agreement by a commercial bank or other financial institution to lend a business or individual a specified sum of money. A loan commitment is useful for consumers looking to buy a home or a business planning to make a major purchase.



The loan can take the form of a single lump sum or—in the case of an open-end loan commitment—a line of credit that the borrower can draw upon as needed (up to a predetermined limit).





Key Takeaways

A loan commitment is an agreement by a commercial bank or other financial institution to lend a business or individual a specified sum of money.Loan commitments are useful for consumers looking to buy a home or businesses planning to make a major purchase.The loan can take the form of a single lump sum or a line of credit that the borrower can draw upon as needed (up to a predetermined limit).Loan commitments can be either secured or unsecured; a secured commitment is typically based on the borrower’s creditworthiness and has some form of collateral backing it. whereas an unsecured commitment is solely based on the borrower's creditworthiness (it has no collateral backing it).


   Understanding a Loan Commitment  

Financial institutions make loan commitments based on the borrower’s creditworthiness and—in if it's a secured commitment—on the value of some form of collateral. In the case of individual consumers, this collateral may be a home. Borrowers can then use the funds made available under the loan commitment, up to the agreed-upon limit. An open-end loan commitment works like a revolving line of credit: When the borrower pays back a portion of the loan's principal, the lender adds that amount back to the available loan limit.






Interest rates when obtaining a secured loan commitment may be lower, but this type of loan requires putting up collateral; if you can't repay the loan, you may risk losing the collateral.


   Types of Loan Commitments  

Loan commitments can be either secured or unsecured.


  Secured Loan Commitment  

A secured commitment is typically based on the borrower’s creditworthiness and it has some form of collateral backing it. Two examples of open-end secured loan commitments for consumers are a secured credit card–where money in a bank account serves as collateral–and a home equity line of credit (HELOC)–in which the equity in a home is used as collateral.



Because the credit limit is typically based on the value of the secured asset, the credit limit is often higher for a secured loan commitment than for an unsecured loan commitment. In addition, the loan’s interest rate may be lower and the payback time may be longer for a secured loan commitment than for an unsecured one. However, the approval process typically requires more paperwork and takes longer than with an unsecured loan.



The lender holds the collateral’s deed or title–or places a lien on the asset–until the loan is completely paid. Defaulting on a secured loan may result in the lender assuming ownership of and selling the secured asset, at which point they would then be responsible for using the proceeds to cover the loan.


  Unsecured Loan Commitment  

A loan that doesn't have any collateral backing it is primarily based on the borrower’s creditworthiness. An unsecured credit card is one very basic example of an unsecured open-end loan commitment. Typically, the higher the borrower’s credit score, the higher the credit limit.



However, the interest rate may be higher than on a secured loan commitment because no collateral is backing the debt. Unsecured loans typically have a fixed minimum payment schedule and interest rate. The process for acquiring this type of loan often takes less paperwork and approval time than a secured loan commitment.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Loan Commitments  

Open-end loan commitments are flexible and can be useful for paying unexpected short-term debt obligations or covering financial emergencies. In addition, HELOCs typically have low interest rates, which may make their payments more affordable. Secured credit cards can help consumers establish or rebuild their credit; paying their bill on time and keeping total credit card debt low will improve their credit scores, and in time they may be eligible for an unsecured credit card.



The downside of a secured loan commitment is that borrowers who take out too much money and are unable to repay the loan may have to forfeit their collateral. For example, this could mean losing their home. Unsecured commitments have a higher interest rate, which makes borrowing more expensive.
What Is a Loan Committee?  

A loan committee is the lending or management committee of a bank or other lending institution. It generally consists of upper-level officers with management authority. The loan committee analyzes and subsequently approves or rejects any loan that the initial loan officer does not have the authority to approve, typically those of large sizes or higher risk. The committee ensures that the loan meets the institution’s standard lending policy. If it does, the committee can agree to fund and disburse the loan with a binding commitment.





Key Takeaways

A loan committee consists of the upper management of a lending institution with the authority to approve loans that the initial loan officer does not have the authority to approve.The types of loans that a loan committee reviews are generally of a large size and/or are risky.The job of the loan committee is to ensure that the loan being reviewed meets regulatory standards, the firm's lending policies, and fits the credit risk appetite of the firm.Loan committees assess factors such as risk mitigants, the borrower's credit score, past payment history, outstanding debts, and current liquidity.The three main credit reporting agencies in the U.S. provide important credit information on borrowers that help loan committees arrive at their decision.The loan committee also determines the actions to be taken on delinquent loans.


   Understanding a Loan Committee  

A loan committee is usually responsible for regular credit reviews of the bank’s maturing loans, which are the ones whose terms are nearing completion and are up for renewal. For example, a 10-year loan in its ninth year would be a maturing loan and up for renewal if the borrower is interested in extending the loan. At times, a bank may extend the original credit facility, however, the loan committee must ensure that this is done in accordance with proper procedure. For the bank, it is important to make sure that the borrower’s creditworthiness has not deteriorated.



In addition to reviewing maturing loans, a loan committee is responsible for reviewing new loans that may be large, complex, or come with a high risk. These types of loans are usually above the authority of the initial loan officer and require the approval of upper management, such as the chief risk officer (CRO) and chief financial officer (CFO).


   Determining Loan Quality  

To determine the creditworthiness of a borrower, a loan committee will conduct a valuation that includes factors such as the borrower’s past repayment history and credit score, along with the value of assets and liabilities on the individual’s balance sheet, the purpose of the loan, the risks of the industry the individual or firm operates in, forecasting models, and other information that will paint a clear picture of the potential risks of the borrower. A loan committee analyzes and subsequently approves or rejects the loan. It may also approve the loan but with completely different terms than the borrower intended, which will mitigate any risks.



The three credit reporting agencies in the United States are Experian, Transunion, and Equifax, that report, update, and store consumers’ credit histories, which loan committees incorporate into their decision to extend credit to a single borrower. The five main factors that these agencies use when calculating a credit score are payment history, the total amount owed, length of credit history, types of credit, and new credit.


   Collecting on a Loan  

A loan committee also determines which collection action should be taken on past-due loans. Depending on the policy of the lending institution, once a borrower has missed their due date, the committee can either immediately charge a late fee or allow the borrower to enter a grace period.



To bring the account up to good standing, the borrower must make the required minimum monthly payments, including any late fees. Individuals or businesses that are 30 days behind schedule on loan payments will usually find that the delinquent account has affected their credit report.



Finally, a loan committee will also be charged with making sure that the bank is compliant with all regulations. This can include not only lending procedures but also bankruptcy and receivership issues and even extend to the review of marketing materials that are provided to potential customers.
What Is a Loan Constant?  

A loan constant is a percentage that shows the annual debt service on a loan compared to its total principal value. The calculation for a loan constant is the annual debt service divided by the total loan amount. When shopping for a loan, borrowers can compare the loan constant of various loans before making a decision. The loan with the lowest loan constant will have lower debt service requirements, meaning the borrower will pay less in interest and principal over a given period. Loan constants are only applicable to fixed interest rate loans and not loans with variable interest rates.





Key Takeaways

A loan constant is a percentage that shows the annual debt service of a loan compared to the total principal value of a loan.Principal, loan interest rate, and the length and frequency of payments are used for calculating a loan constant.Loan constant tables and calculators are popular for calculating mortgage payments.When shopping around for a loan, borrowers will often opt for the loan with the lowest loan constant as this means the debt service payments for that loan will be lower.


   How a Loan Constant Works  

A loan constant is a comparison of a loan's annual debt service to the loan's total principal value. A loan's debt service is the total cash the borrower must pay to cover the repayment of interest and principal on the loan for a given period.



The loan constant is expressed as a percentage and can be determined for all types of loans. It helps borrowers and analysts to understand better the factors involved with a loan and how much they are paying annually in comparison to the loan principal.






A mortgage constant is a loan constant that is specific to a real estate loan.


   Calculating a Loan Constant  

Calculating the loan constant often requires a borrower to obtain from the lender the multiple terms associated with the lending deal. Terms include factors such as total principal, loan interest rate, length of payments, and frequency of payments. Obtaining these loan term factors allows for the calculation of a simple present-value payment to arrive at the monthly payments. Once the monthly payments are identified, a borrower can easily calculate their loan constant using the following equation:



Loan Constant = Annual Debt Service / Total Loan Amount



For example, take a mortgage borrower who has obtained a $150,000 loan. The loan has a fixed interest rate of 6% with a 30-year duration and monthly interest payments. Using a payments calculator, the borrower would calculate monthly payments of $899.33, which results in an annual debt service of $10,791.96. With this annual debt service, the borrower’s loan constant would be 7.2% or $10,791.96 / $150,000.


   Special Considerations  

The loan constant, when multiplied by the original loan principal, gives the dollar amount of the annual periodic payments. The loan constant can be used to compare the true cost of borrowing. Loan constants are only available for loans with fixed interest rates since variable interest rates have differing annual debt service levels based on variable interest. Given the choice of two loans, a borrower will generally opt for the one with the lower loan constant, since it will have the lower debt service requirement.


   Loan Constant Tables  

Loan constant tables were widely used in the real estate industry before the advent of financial calculators since they made it relatively easy to calculate monthly mortgage payments. Loan constant tables provide prepopulated information for borrowers about their loan with a quoted loan constant level.



If the borrower from the example above were given their loan constant, they could find the interest and payment terms from a loan constant table without other inputs. The borrower would only need to identify 7.2% in the table. From there, they would find the corresponding interest rate of 6% on the horizontal axis. On the vertical axis, the number of payments in months would also be provided at 360.



The concept of loan constant is especially relevant In the area of commercial real estate, since when compared to the capitalization rate, an investor can tell if they will actually make or lose money on the part of the investment they finance. For example, if an investor is buying an apartment building with a 7% cap rate and their loan constant is 6%, then they will be earning 1% on the borrowed money and 7% on equity. However if the loan constant is 7 1/2%, then the investor would be losing 1/2 of 1% on the mortgaged part of the investment.
What Is a Loan Credit Default Swap (LCDS)?  

A loan credit default swap (LCDS) is a type of credit derivative in which the credit exposure of an underlying loan is exchanged between two parties. A loan credit default swap's structure is the same as a regular credit default swap (CDS), except that the underlying reference obligation is limited strictly to syndicated secured loans, rather than any type of corporate debt.



Loan credit default swaps can also be referred to as “loan-only credit default swaps.”





Key Takeaways

A loan credit default swap (LCDS) allows one counterparty to exchange the credit risk on a reference loan to another in return for premium payments.A loan credit default swap has the same general structure as a regular credit default swap.The difference is that in the LCDSD, the reference obligation underlying the contract can only be syndicated secured loans.


   Understanding a Loan Credit Default Swap (LCDS)  

The LCDS was introduced to the financial market in 2006. At the time, the hot market for credit default swaps showed that there was still an appetite for more credit derivatives, and the LCDS was largely seen as a CDS with the reference obligation shifting to syndicated debt instead of corporate debt. The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) helped to standardize the contracts being used at the same time as the creation of syndicated secured loans for the purpose of leveraged buyouts was also increasing. 



The LCDS comes in two types. A cancelable LCDS is often referred to as a U.S. LCDS and is generally designed to be a trading product. As the name suggests, the cancelable LCDS can be canceled at an agreed-upon date or dates in the future without penalty costs. A non-cancelable LCDS, or European LCDS, is a hedging product that incorporates prepayment risk into its makeup. The non-cancelable LCDS remains in force until the underlying syndicated loans are repaid in full (or a credit event triggers it). As a U.S. LCDS has the option to cancel, these swaps are sold at a higher rate than comparable non-cancelable swaps.






The recovery rate for LCDS is much higher than for CDS on bonds because the underlying assets for LCDS are syndicated secured loans.


   Loan Credit Default Swaps vs. Credit Default Swaps  

As with regular credit default swaps, these derivative contracts can be used to hedge against credit exposure the buyer may have or to obtain credit exposure for the seller. A LCDS can also be used to make bets on the credit quality of an underlying entity to which parties have not had previous exposure.



The biggest difference between a LCDS and a CDS is the recovery rate. The debt underlying an LCDS is secured to assets and has priority in any liquidation proceedings, whereas the debt underlying a CDS, while senior to shares, is junior to secured loans. So the higher quality reference obligation for a LCDS leads to higher recovery values if that loan defaults. As a result, a LCDS generally trades at tighter spreads than an ordinary CDS.
What Is the Loan Credit Default Swap Index (Markit LCDX)?  

The Loan Credit Default Swap Index (Markit LCDX) is a specialized index of loan-only credit default swaps (CDS) covering 100 North American companies with unsecured debt trading in broad secondary markets. The LCDX is traded over-the-counter, and several large investment banks manage it, provide liquidity, and assist in pricing individual credit default swaps. IHS Markit Ltd, headquartered in London, is the index provider.





Key Takeaways

The Loan Credit Default Swap Index (Markit LCDX) is a specialized index of loan-only credit default swaps (CDS) that cover 100 individual North American companies with unsecured debt trading in the broad secondary markets. LCDX is traded over the counter and is managed by a consortium of large investment banks, which provide liquidity and assist in pricing the individual credit default swaps. IHS Markit Ltd, headquartered in London, provides the index.The LCDX begins with a fixed coupon rate (225 basis points); trading moves the price and changes the yield, much like a standard bond.Minimum purchase amounts for the LCDX can run into millions of dollars, so most investors are large institutional firms, such as asset managers, banks, hedge funds, and insurance companies.


   Understanding the Loan Credit Default Swap Index (Markit LCDX)  

The index begins with a fixed coupon rate (225 basis points); trading moves the price and changes the yield, much like a standard bond. The index rolls every six months. Buyers of the index pay the coupon rate (and purchase the protection against credit events), while sellers receive the coupon and sell the protection. What is being protected in this instance is a "credit event" at a particular company in the index, such as its defaulting on a loan or declaring bankruptcy.



If such a credit event occurs in one of the underlying companies, the protection is paid out via physical delivery of the debt, or through a cash settlement between the two parties. The underlying company is then removed from the index, and a new one is substituted in order to return the index to an even 100 members.



Credit default swaps essentially put a price on the risk that a particular debt issuer might default. Companies with strong credit ratings have low-risk premiums, so protection can be purchased for a minimal fee, assessed as a percentage of the notional (dollar) value of the underlying debt. Companies with low credit ratings cost more to protect against, so the credit default swaps covering them may cost several additional percentage points of the notional amount.



Minimum purchase amounts for the LCDX can run into millions of dollars, so most investors are large institutional firms, such as asset managers, banks, hedge funds, and insurance companies, which invest as either a hedge or as a speculative play. The advantage of the LCDX to these investors is that they can gain access to a diversified group of companies for much less than it would cost them to purchase the credit default swaps individually.
What Is Loan Grading?  

Loan grading is a classification system that involves assigning a quality score to a loan based on a borrower's credit history, quality of the collateral, and the likelihood of repayment of the principal and interest. A score can also be applied to a portfolio of loans. Loan grading is part of a lending institution's loan review or credit risk system and is usually an aspect of the credit underwriting and approval processes.



There are many purposes for a loan review system, such as identifying loans with credit weaknesses so banks can take steps to minimize credit risk, identifying trends affecting the collectability of the loan portfolio, and for financial and regulatory reporting purposes.





Key Takeaways

Loan grading is a classification system that involves assigning a quality score to a loan based on a borrower's credit history, quality of the collateral, and the likelihood of repayment of the principal and interest.Loan grading is part of a lending institution's loan review or credit risk system and is usually an aspect of the credit underwriting and approval processes.The score takes into account not only the borrower's credit score but also a combination of several indicators of credit risk from the credit report and loan application, such as the level of guarantor support, repayment history, cash flow, projected yearly expenses, etc.


   How Loan Grading Works  

Being able to manage their lending capacity effectively is central to the success of a bank. So, banks must come up with a loan grading system that accurately evaluates credit risk, or the probability of loss due to a borrower’s failure to make payments. The processes that banks use to grade loans help examiners and management make good lending decisions. There is no one correct system for grading loans, although the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) requires that all lending institutions have a loan review system. Larger institutions may maintain separate departments specifically for loan reviewing.



Depending on the size and complexity, banks develop different approaches. Community banks often use more broad factors to judge the risk of a loan, whereas larger, more complex institutions may rely on more quantitative approaches to measure and monitor credit risk. When assigning a score to a loan, the examiner will review the loan documentation, collateral, and the borrower's financial statements. The score takes into account not only the borrower's credit score but also a combination of several indicators of credit risk from the credit report and loan application. These factors may include the level of guarantor support, repayment history, cash flow, projected yearly expenses, etc.



Smaller institutions typically use an expert judgment system. In this system, a loan officer is entrusted with assigning a grade based on their judgment and knowledge. Other banks may use quantitative scorecards, or other modeled approaches, that allow for adjustments based on qualitative judgments. Since there are no regulatory requirements that mandate how a loan grading system is structured, it is up to banks to develop a system that is suitable for their size and complexity.
What Is the Loan Life Coverage Ratio (LLCR)?  

The loan life coverage ratio (LLCR) is a financial ratio used to estimate the solvency of a firm, or the ability of a borrowing company to repay an outstanding loan. LLCR is calculated by dividing the net present value (NPV) of the money available for debt repayment by the amount of outstanding debt. 



LLCR is similar to the debt service coverage ratio (DSCR), but it is more commonly used in project financing because of its long-term nature. The DSCR captures a single point in time, whereas the LLCR addresses the entire span of the loan.


   The Formula for the Loan Life Coverage Ratio (LLCR) Is  

﻿


















∑



t


=


s




s


+


n






C



F


t







(


1


+


i


)



t





+


D


R





O


t



















where:
















C



F


t



=


Cash-flows available for debt service at year t
















t


=


The time period



(


year


)

















s


=


The number of years expected to pay the debt back
















i


=


The weighted average cost of capital



(


WACC


)

















expressed as an interest rate
















D


R


=


Cash reserve available to repay the debt

















(


the debt reserve


)


















O


t



=


The debt balance outstanding at the time of
















evaluation








\begin{aligned} &\frac{\sum_{t=s}^{s+n}\frac{CF_t}{\left(1 + i\right)^t} + DR}{O_t}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &CF_t = \text{Cash-flows available for debt service at year t}\\ &t = \text{The time period}\left(\text{year}\right)\\ &s = \text{The number of years expected to pay the debt back}\\ &i = \text{The weighted average cost of capital}\left(\text{WACC}\right)\\ &\text{expressed as an interest rate}\\ &DR = \text{Cash reserve available to repay the debt}\\ &\left(\text{the debt reserve}\right)\\ &O_t = \text{The debt balance outstanding at the time of}\\ &\text{evaluation}\\ \end{aligned}


​Ot​∑t=ss+n​(1+i)tCFt​​+DR​where:CFt​=Cash-flows available for debt service at year tt=The time period(year)s=The number of years expected to pay the debt backi=The weighted average cost of capital(WACC)expressed as an interest rateDR=Cash reserve available to repay the debt(the debt reserve)Ot​=The debt balance outstanding at the time ofevaluation​﻿


   How to Calculate the Loan Life Coverage Ratio  

The LLCR can be calculated using the above formula, or by using a shortcut: dividing the NPV of project free cash flows by the present value of the debt outstanding.



In this calculation, the weighted average cost of debt is the discount rate for the NPV calculation and the project "cash flows" are more specifically the cash flows available for debt service (CFADS).


   What Does the Loan Life Coverage Ratio Tell You?  

LLCR is a solvency ratio. The loan life coverage ratio is a measure of the number of times over the cash flows of a project can repay an outstanding debt over the life of a loan. A ratio of 1.0x means that LLCR is at a break-even level. The higher the ratio, the less potential risk there is for the lender.



Depending on the risk profile of the project, sometimes a debt service reserve account is required by the lender. In such a case, the numerator of LLCR would include the reserve account balance. Project financing agreements invariably contain covenants that stipulate LLCR levels.





Key Takeaways

The loan life coverage ratio (LLCR) is a financial ratio used to estimate the solvency of a firm, or the ability of a borrowing company to repay an outstanding loan.The loan life coverage ratio is a measure of the number of times over the cash flows of a project can repay an outstanding debt over the life of a loan. The higher the ratio, the less potential risk there is for the lender.


   The Difference Between LLCR and DSCR  

In corporate finance, the Debt-Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) is a measure of the cash flow available to pay current debt obligations. The ratio states net operating income as a multiple of debt obligations due within one year, including interest, principal, sinking-fund and lease payments. However, DSCR captures just a single point in time, while LLCR allows for several time periods, which is more suitable for understanding liquidity available for loans of medium to long time horizons.



LLCR is used by analysts to assess the viability of a given amount of debt and consequently to evaluate the risk profile and the related costs. It has a less immediate explanation compared to DSCR, but when LLCR has a value greater than one, this is usually a strong reassurance for investors.


   Limitations of LLCR  

One limitation of the LLCR is that it does not pick up weak periods because it basically represents a discounted average that can smooth out rough patches. For this reason, if a project has a steady cash flows with a history of loan repayment, a good rule of thumb is that the LLCR should be roughly equal to the average debt service coverage ratio.
What Is a Loan Lock?  

A loan lock refers to a lender’s promise to offer a borrower a specified interest rate on a mortgage and to hold that rate for an agreed-upon period of time.


   How a Loan Lock Works  

A loan lock guarantees a borrower that a mortgage lender will, upon closing, provide a loan with a specified interest rate. Typically, lenders offer quotes to prospective borrowers that reflect prevailing interest rates at the time of the offer, rather than at the time of settlement. The quoted rate will also include a lender’s margin. Rates can go up or down prior to closing, so a loan lock provides the borrower with protection against a rise in interest rates during the lock period. A lender will sometimes offer a loan lock as a specific rate plus a number of points. Points represent a fee paid at the origination of a loan to receive a lower interest rate over the loan’s life.



If rates go down during the lock period, the borrower may have the option to withdraw from the agreement. The probability of such a withdrawal is known as a fallout risk for the lender. The borrower should take great care, however, to ensure that the lock agreement allows for withdrawal.



In some cases where prevailing rates decline during the lock period, the borrower may have the option to take advantage of a float-down provision to lock in a new, lower rate. As with any feature that increases interest-rate risk to the lender, a float-down provision will only be available at an additional cost to the borrower.



Loan locks generally last 30 or 60 days. At a minimum they should cover the period necessary for the lender to process the borrower’s loan application. An example of a short lock period is one that expires shortly after completion of the loan-approval process. In some cases this lock period can be as short as a few days. A borrower can negotiate the terms of a loan lock and often extend the term of the lock for a fee or slightly higher rate.






A loan lock provides the borrower with protection against a rise in interest rates during the lock period.


   Loan Lock vs. Loan Commitment  

It is worthwhile to distinguish between a loan lock and a loan commitment. A loan commitment can refer to a commercial line of credit, but when used in reference to a mortgage agreement the term refers to a lender’s intention to lend a certain amount at an unspecified point in the future. The commitment may or may not contain a loan lock. Generally, a borrower uses a lender’s commitment to make his or her offer more attractive to the seller of a property in a competitive bidding environment.
What Is a Loan Loss Provision?  

A loan loss provision is an income statement expense set aside as an allowance for uncollected loans and loan payments. This provision is used to cover different kinds of loan losses such as non-performing loans, customer bankruptcy, and renegotiated loans that incur lower-than-previously-estimated payments. Loan loss provisions are then added to the loan loss reserves, a balance sheet item that represents the total amount of loan losses subtracted a company's loans.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A loan loss provision is an income statement expense set aside to allow for uncollected loans and loan payments.Banks are required to account for potential loan defaults and expenses to ensure they are presenting an accurate assessment of their overall financial health.Loan loss provisions are added to the loan loss reserves, a balance statement item showing total loan losses.


   How a Loan Loss Provision Works  

Banking industry lenders generate revenue from the interest and expenses they receive from lending products. Banks lend to a wide range of customers, including consumers, small businesses, and large corporations.



Lending standards and reporting requirements are constantly changing, and constraints have been rigorously tightening since the height of the 2008 financial crisis. Improved regulations for banks resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act focused on increasing the standards for lending, which have required higher credit quality borrowers and also increased the capital liquidity requirements for the bank.﻿﻿



Despite these improvements, banks still have to account for loan defaults and expenses that occur as a result of lending. Loan loss provisions are a standard accounting adjustment made to a bank’s loan loss reserves included in the financial statements of banks. Loan loss provisions are consistently made to incorporate changing projections for losses from the bank’s lending products. While standards for lending have greatly improved, banks still experience late loan payments and loan defaults.﻿﻿






Because the loan loss provision appears on the income statement as an expense, it will lower operating profits.


   Loan Loss Reserves in Accounting  

Loan loss reserves are typically accounted for on a bank’s balance sheet, which can increase by the amount of the loan loss provision or decrease by the amount of net charge-offs each quarter.



Loan loss provisions are constantly made to update estimates and calculations based on statistics for the bank’s customer defaults. These estimates are calculated based on average historical default rates by different levels of borrowers. Credit losses for late payments and collection expenses are also included in loan loss provision estimates and are calculated using a similar methodology, which takes into account the previous payment statistics of a bank’s credit clients.



Overall, by setting aside loan loss reserves and constantly updating estimates through loan loss provisions, banks can ensure they are presenting an accurate assessment of their overall financial position. This financial position is often released publicly through the bank’s quarterly financial statements.
What is Loan Modification?  

Loan modification is a change made to the terms of an existing loan by a lender. It may involve a reduction in the interest rate, an extension of the length of time for repayment, a different type of loan, or any combination of the three.



Such changes usually are made because the borrower is unable to repay the original loan. Most successful loan modification processes are negotiated with the help of an attorney or a settlement company. Some borrowers are eligible for government assistance in loan modification.


   How Loan Modification Works  

Although a loan modification may be made for any type of loan, they are most common with secured loans such as mortgages.





Key Takeaways

A loan modification is typically granted to a borrower in financial crisis who can't repay the loan under its original terms.Successful applicants typically are represented by legal or other professional counsel. Some consumers have access to government programs that help mortgage-holders.



A lender may agree to a loan modification during a settlement procedure or in the case of a potential foreclosure. In such situations, the lender has concluded that a loan modification will be less costly to the business than a foreclosure or a charge-off of the debt.



A loan modification agreement is not the same as a forbearance agreement. A forbearance agreement provides short-term relief for a borrower with a temporary financial problem. A loan modification agreement is a long-term solution.






A loan modification may involve a reduced interest rate, a longer period to repay, a different type of loan, or any combination of these.



There are two sources of professional assistance in negotiating a loan modification:



Settlement companies are for-profit entities that work on behalf of borrowers to reduce or alleviate debt by settling with their creditors.Mortgage modification lawyers specialize in negotiating for the owners of mortgages that are in default and threatened with foreclosure.



Federal government assistance also is available to some borrowers.


  Government Programs  

Mortgage loan modifications are the most common type because of the large sums of money at stake. During the housing foreclosure crisis that took place between 2007 and 2010, several government loan modification programs were established for borrowers.



Some of those programs have expired but government-sponsored loan modification assistance is still available to some borrowers. These include:



Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored mortgage company, has a program called Flex Modification.﻿﻿Mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Authority may be eligible for modification through the agency's FHA-HAMP program.﻿﻿Military veterans can get mortgage delinquency counseling through the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs.﻿﻿



Some traditional lenders have their own loan modification programs.


  Applying for a Mortgage Loan Modification  

A mortgage loan modification application will require the details of a borrower's financial information, the mortgage information, and the specifics of the hardship situation.



Each program will have its own qualifications and requirements. These are typically based on the amount the borrower owes, the property being used for collateral, and specific features of the collateral property.



If a borrower is approved, the approval will include an offer with new loan modification terms.
What Is a Loan Note?  

A loan note is an extended form of a generic I Owe You (IOU) document from one party to another. It enables a payee (borrower) to receive payments from a lender, possibly with an interest rate attached, over a set period of time, and ending on the date at which the entire loan is to be repaid. Loan notes are usually provided in lieu of cash at the payee's request.



A loan note denotes a type of contract that typically outlines the legal obligations of the lender and the borrower. A proper loan note will include a set of contractual penalties, including the right to sue or seek arbitration if either party to the contract fails to meet or otherwise defaults on financial obligations. 





Key Takeaways

A loan note is a type of promissory agreement that outlines the legal obligations of the lender and the borrower.A loan note is a legally binding agreement that includes all the terms of the loan, such as the payment schedule, due date, principal amount, interest rate, and any prepayment penalties.Lenders typically require borrowers to agree to loan notes for big-ticket purchases, such as for a home or car.Loan notes can have tax benefits to the borrower and can also be a convenient source of seed money for new entrepreneurs and startups.In many cases, a loan note is preferable to an informal IOU because a loan note holds more legal significance and is easier to uphold in court should there be a disagreement between the parties.


   How a Loan Note Works  

A loan note, a form of promissory agreement, includes all of the associated loan terms. It is considered a legally binding agreement with both parties considered committed to the terms as they are written. A loan note can be drawn up by either borrower or lender, though it is more traditionally completed by the lender. The note is considered valid until the amount listed on the document is paid in full by the borrower.






A loan note can help an individual avoid a tax hit due to a lump-sum payment from a settlement or cash-out package.


   Information Contained in a Loan Note  

The loan note contains all of the pertinent details regarding the legal agreement reached by the involved parties. This includes the names and contact information for both parties, as well as the principal balance and any interest rate being applied over the term of the loan. Additional information regarding the payment schedule, including the due date, will be included.



Penalty information may also be included. This can include repercussions for late payments or information pertaining to prepayment penalties.






While prepayment clauses serve as a protection to the lender against losing interest income over the course of the loan, the clause means the borrower will pay a penalty for paying down or paying off the loan during a specified time, usually within the first few years of the loan's start date.


   Example of a Loan Note  

Loan notes are used mostly for installment debts in which the borrower is making a purchase of a particular good or service and paying the amount back over time. A common consumer need for a loan note is a home purchase, which includes a loan note along with the mortgage or deed of trust. Loan notes are also used for vehicle financing and most other forms of installment loans.


   Benefits of Loan Notes  

A loan note can help an individual avoid an undue tax hit due to a lump-sum payment from a settlement or cash-out package from a company. In these cases, the individual is given a choice between cash or a loan note. When loan notes are used between businesses, the purchaser is able to act as a borrower and make payments over time, often at a minimal interest rate.



Loan notes can be fairly simple to draw up and convenient for both parties to implement with straightforward details. They can represent the first form of funding for young businesses. Startups and new entrepreneurs often use them to obtain seed capital from friends and family in order to establish a business.


   Special Considerations for Loan Notes  

Legally, a loan note holds more significance than an informal IOU, even when the informal IOU is notarized. Generally, a loan note will be upheld unless either party can prove the agreement was entered into while under duress, which may make the conditions within the document void, rendering them unenforceable.
What Is a Loan Officer?  

A loan officer is a representative of a bank, credit union, or other financial institution who assists borrowers in the application process. Loan officers are often called mortgage loan officers since that is the most complex and costly type of loan most consumers encounter. However, most loan officers assist consumers and small business owners with a wide variety of secured and unsecured loans.



Loan officers must have a comprehensive knowledge of lending products, banking industry rules and regulations, and the required documentation for obtaining a loan.





Key Takeaways

A loan officer assists consumers and business people in choosing a loan product and applying for it.This person is the main contact with the financial institution through the loan closing.Most loans require a pile of paperwork, and mortgages are the worst.


   How a Loan Officer Works  

The loan officer is the direct contact for most borrowers applying for a loan from a financial institution. The entire process can be handled over the internet, but most consumers probably still prefer a well-informed human on the other side of what is, after all, a costly and complex transaction. In fact, one reason why banks continue to have so many branch offices is that they need to bring loan officers face to face with potential borrowers.



Loan officers are knowledgeable about all of the various types of loans offered by the financial institutions they represent and can advise borrowers on the best options for their needs.



They also can advise the potential borrower about what type of loan they might be eligible to get. The loan officer is responsible for the initial screening process and is unlikely to proceed with an application from someone who does not meet the lender's qualifications.


  The Application Process  

Once a borrower and a loan officer agree to proceed, the loan officer helps prepare the application. The loan officer then passes the application along to the institution’s underwriter, who assesses the creditworthiness of the potential borrower.



If the loan is approved, the loan officer is responsible for preparing the appropriate documentation and the loan closing documents.






The loan officer is responsible for collecting the appropriate closing documents for a mortgage or other loan.



Some loans are more work than others. Secured loans generally require more documentation than unsecured loans. Mortgage loans require a hefty stack of documentation due to the many federal, state, and local regulations that pertain to them. Reverse mortgages and mortgage refinancings require that the borrower receive a HUD-1 settlement statement before the closing.﻿﻿



Some loan officers are compensated through commissions. This commission is a prepaid charge and is often negotiable. Commission fees are usually highest for mortgage loans.
What Is a Loan Participation Note?  

A loan participation note (LPN) is a fixed-income security that permits investors to buy portions of an outstanding loan or package of loans. LPN holders participate on a pro-rata basis in collecting interest and principal payments, and are similarly exposed to a proportional risk of default.



Banks, credit unions, or other financial institutions often enter into loan participation agreements with local businesses and may offer loan participation notes as a type of short-term investment or bridge financing.





Key Takeaways

A loan participation note (LPN) allows investors to purchase a claim to a portion of an outstanding loan issued by another lender.With an LPN, the lead bank underwrites and issues the loan, while participant investors subsequently purchase a pro-rata amount.LPNs are popular with credit unions, which use participation agreements to foster greater economic participation and community building through sharing risk & reward with local residents and businesses.


   How a Loan Participation Note Works  

To meet the needs of local borrowers and increase loan income, many community banks use loan participation agreements in which one or more banks share in the ownership of a loan. Community banks have also formed lending consortia. One example is the Community Investment Corporation of North Carolina (CICNC), an affordable housing loan consortium that provides long-term, permanent financing for the development of low- and moderate-income multifamily and elderly housing throughout North and South Carolina.



One of the purposes of loan participation notes is to help meet the needs of borrowers within a local community. Several other institutions have also sprung up for similar reasons. Credit unions are one such example. A credit union is a financial cooperative that is created, owned and operated by their participants. While some credit unions can be large and national in scale, such as the Navy Federal Credit Union (NFCU), others are smaller in scope.






Cooperative principles of credit unions include: voluntary membership, democratic organization, economic participation of all members, autonomy, education and training for members, cooperation, and community involvement.



Credit unions and banks generally offer the same services, including accepting deposits, originating loans for individuals or small businesses and offering financial products such as credit and debit cards and certificates of deposit (CDs). Key structural differences exist in terms of how a commercial bank and credit union use their profits, however. While traditional banks function to generate profits for their shareholders, many credit unions operate as not-for-profit organizations, putting excess funds into concrete projects that will better serve their community of de-facto owners (i.e. members).


   Example of an LPN  

For example, Angel V. Castro, a pioneer in the Latin American credit union movement, was recently recognized for his efforts by the National Credit Union Foundation. Castro believed that the traditional U.S. model of consumer credit-based poverty reduction would not fit the needs of the people in the communities he worked with. In Ecuador, he focused on organizing credit unions that extended access to credit for its members specifically for agriculture and other endeavors.
What Is a Loan Production Office?  

A loan production office (LPO) is an administrative division of a bank, that, as the name implies, deals solely with loan-related activities. The Federal Reserve defines an LPO as “a staffed facility, other than a branch, which is open to the public and provides lending-related services such as loan information and applications.”



Regulated by both state law and the Board of Directors of the main banking facility, the LPO itself cannot make loans, but may only carry out administrative functions regarding the processing of them. For that reason, regulations prohibit prevent the LPO facility from being called a branch of the bank—unless the state banking commissioner grants an application for it to act in a branch capacity. At this point, the loan production office may provide full loan servicing.





Key Takeaways

A loan production office, or LPO, is an administrative division of a bank that is focused solely on loan requests.An LPO deals primarily in requests for residential mortgages but also handles other types of loans.The LPO can't make loans directly but can carry out all the administrative functions that accompany the requesting and receiving of loans.The LPO can do the research necessary for considering a loan, and can even suggest whether the loan should be approved or rejected, but then must forward the application to the bank for a final decision. 


   How a Loan Production Office Works  

Located on the bank's premises or at another location, the loan production office reviews, and process loan applications, checking for underwriting standard compliance and completeness of documents. It most often deals with residential mortgages, but services other sorts of loans as well.



An LPO processor or underwriter performs these support duties: the receipt, collection, distribution, and analysis of information required for the processing or underwriting of a loan. Also, the LPO processor communicates with applicants to obtain the information necessary for these activities. Other roles in an LPO include loan production leader, loan specialist, operations supervisor, and customer service coordinator.



An LPO can provide clients with educational information about mortgages and loans, either proprietary materials from its parent bank or general ones from a government agency. However, LPO processors may not offer or negotiate loan rates or terms, nor may they counsel consumers about residential mortgage loan rates or terms.



Once it has finished gathering and analyzing all the data, the loan production office then forwards the application to the bank itself for a final decision. The senior processor of the LPO may recommend the approval of an application, but the actual decision should be from the home office or a branch.



If the loan is approved, the LPO may also be in charge of delivering the bank's check or funds to the borrower or their account.






A loan production office can only act in a branch capacity, providing full loan servicing, if the bank successfully petitions the state banking commissioner for permission.


   Special Considerations for Loan Production Office  

Because it is not a full branch of the bank, the loan production office is not required to post Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks (Regulation CC) policies or signage. However, the office should display an Equal Housing Lender poster, which is a requirement wherever deposits are received or loans made.


   LPO vs. Loan Servicer  

Although they both provide financing support services, an LPO is not the same as a loan servicer. In act, the two operate at different ends of the process. LPOs may only administer the process from application to disbursement of a loan. In contrast, from the time the proceeds of a loan are dispersed until the loan is paid off, the loan servicer administers it.



The confusion often arises because loans are often serviced nowadays by third parties separate from the institution that issued them. Traditionally loan servicing was a core function carried out by and housed within, banks. Today the duties may be done by a non-bank entity specializing in loan servicing or a sub-servicer who operates as a third-party vendor for lending institutions.
What Is Loan Servicing?  

Loan servicing refers to the administrative aspects of a loan from the time the proceeds are dispersed to the borrower until the loan is paid off. Loan servicing includes sending monthly payment statements, collecting monthly payments, maintaining records of payments and balances, collecting and paying taxes and insurance (and managing escrow funds), remitting funds to the note holder, and following up on any delinquencies.





Key Takeaways

Loan servicing is a function carried out by the bank or financial institution that issued the loan, a third-party vendor, or a company that specializes in loan servicing.Loan servicing functions include collecting monthly payments, paying taxes, and other aspects of the loan that occur from the time the proceeds are dispersed until the loan is paid off.Securitization of loans made loan servicing less profitable for banks.Loan servicing is now an industry in and of itself and companies are compensated by receiving a small percentage of loan payments.


   How Loan Servicing Works  

Loan servicing can be carried out by the bank or financial institution that issued the loans, a non-bank entity specializing in loan servicing, or a third-party vendor for the lending institution. Loan servicing may also refer to the borrower's obligation to make timely payments of principal and interest on a loan as a way to maintain creditworthiness with lenders and credit-rating agencies.



Loan servicing was traditionally seen as a core function held within banks. Banks issued the original loan, so it made sense that they would be responsible for handling the administration of the loan. That was, of course, before widespread securitization of loans changed the nature of banking and finance in general. Once loans—and mortgages in particular—were repackaged into securities and sold off a bank’s books, the servicing of the loans proved to be a less profitable business line than the origination of new loans.



So the loan servicing part of the loan life cycle was separated from origination and opened up to the market. Given the record-keeping burden of loan servicing and the changing habits and expectations of borrowers, the industry has become especially dependent on technology and software.


   Loan Servicing Example  

Loan servicing is now an industry in and of itself. Loan servicers are compensated by retaining a relatively small percentage of the outstanding balance, known as the servicing fee or servicing strip. This fee usually amounts to 0.25 to 0.5 percentage points of each periodic loan payment.



For example, if the monthly mortgage payments are $2,000 and the servicing fee is 0.25%, the servicer is entitled to retain $5—or (0.0025 x 2,000)—of each payment before passing the remaining amount to the note holder.


   Special Considerations  

Mortgages represent the bulk of the loan servicing market, which amounts to trillions of dollars worth of home loans, though student-loan servicing is also big business. As of 2018, just three companies were responsible for collecting payments on 93% of outstanding government-owned student loans amounting to $950 billion from about 30 million borrowers.



Meanwhile, the trend among big mortgage loan servicers is to slowly back away from the marketplace in response to growing regulatory concerns. In their place, smaller, regional banks, and non-bank servicers are moving into the space.






Loan servicing has traditionally been performed by lenders (big banks), but smaller, regional players, and non-bank service providers are moving into the space.



The mortgage meltdown during the 2007-2008 financial crisis brought increased scrutiny on the practice of securitization and the transfer of loan servicing obligations. As a result, the cost of loan servicing has increased compared to the levels seen before the crisis, and there is always the potential for more regulation.



Meanwhile, some loan servicers have embraced technology to try to reduce compliance costs and there has also been a refocus by some banks on servicing their own loan portfolio to keep the connection with their retail clients.
What Is a Loan Shark?  

A loan shark is a person who – or an entity that – loans money at extremely high interest rates and often uses threats of violence to collect debts. The interest rates are generally well above an established legal rate, and often loan sharks are members of organized crime groups.






Loan sharks charge borrowers interest usually far above any established legal rate; even in a serious cash crunch, there are alternatives.


   How a Loan Shark Works  

A loan shark can be a person within a personal or professional network offering to provide loans at high interest rates. They may be found in under-banked neighborhoods, on the internet, or through personal networks. Their funds are usually from unidentified sources, and they work for personal businesses or unregistered entities.



Loan sharks do not require background checks or credit reports. They will lend large sums of money with the intention of gaining high levels of interest in a short time. Loans from loan sharks charge interest rates far above any regulated rate. For example, a loan shark might lend $10,000 to a person with the provision that $20,000 be repaid within 30 days. These lenders may also often call on the debt to be repaid at any time, using violence as a means of forcing repayment.



In most cases business dealings with a loan shark are illegal; it is best to seek other alternatives.





Key Takeaways

Loan sharks lend money at extremely high interest rates and often use threats of violence to collect debts.They are often members of organized crime syndicates.Payday lenders are similar to loan sharks in many ways but operate legally.


   Loan Sharks vs. Payday and Other Alternative Lenders  

Some payday lenders may approach the level of loan sharks, offering loans at extremely high interest rates for short periods of time. However, these rates can be completely legal. Standard usury laws typically dictate the maximum interest rates a lender can charge in each state, ranging up to approximately 45%. Payday lenders are often granted exceptions, charging annual interest rates of up to 400%. They can offer such high rates because of the special provisions offered by state governments. Loan sharks typically charge rates higher than the rates charged by payday lenders.



Payday lenders are a legal form of high-interest lending offered to borrowers. They are typically registered entities that follow standard credit application procedures, requesting personal information for a credit check. Payday lenders also require proof of employment and income. Payday lenders usually base the principal offered on a borrower’s income and credit profile.



While payday lenders are not known for violent tactics in debt collection, they do offer short-term rates on payday loans with extremely high interest costs, making it difficult for a borrower to repay. Generally, payday lenders will follow standard collection procedures if delinquencies occur, reporting missed payments and defaults to credit bureaus.



Other alternative lenders have emerged in the credit market to offer individuals and businesses credit alternatives. These lenders offer alternative products comparable to traditional loans. Many of these loans will have lower borrowing standards, making credit more affordable for a greater portion of the population. Loan application procedures will generally be similar to standard conventional loans. However, loan applications are usually automated, and lenders are willing to work with borrowers if conflicts arise. These lenders can offer varying principal amounts and interest rates to a variety of borrowers.
What Is Loan Stock?  

Loan stock refers to shares of common or preferred stock that are used as collateral to secure a loan from another party. The loan earns a fixed interest rate, much like a standard loan, and can be secured or unsecured. A secured loan stock may also be called a convertible loan stock if the loan stock can be directly converted to common shares under specified conditions and with a predetermined conversion rate, as with an irredeemable convertible unsecured loan stock (ICULS).





Key Takeaways

A loan stock is an equity security used as collateral to secure a loan. This practice potentially creates the risk for the lender that the value of the collateral will fall if the stock price drops. The company that issued the stock can also be impacted in the event of a default, which can make the lender a significant stockholder overnight. The Federal Reserve’s Primary Dealer Credit Facility accepts stocks as collateral for overnight loans to major financial institutions, raising the same risks and concerns for the Fed.


   Understanding Loan Stock  

When loan stock is being used as collateral, the lender will find the highest value in shares of a business that are publicly traded and unrestricted; these shares are easier to sell if the borrower is unable to repay the loan. Lenders may maintain physical control of the shares until the borrower pays off the loan. At that time, the shares would be returned to the borrower, as they are no longer needed as collateral. This type of financing is also known as portfolio loan stock financing.


   Risks to Lenders  

Since the price of a share can fluctuate with market demand, the value of the stock used to secure a loan is not guaranteed over the long term. In situations where a stock loses value, the collateral associated with a loan may become insufficient to cover the outstanding amount. If the borrower defaults at that time, the lender may experience losses in the amount that is not covered by the current value of the shares being held. Because stock prices can even drop to zero, or the company might go bankrupt, loans collateralized in this way can theoretically result in a completely uncovered loan.


   Issuing Business Concerns Over Loan Stock  

The issuing business of a stock used to secure a loan may have concerns regarding the outcome of the agreement. If the borrower defaults on the loan, the financial institution that issued the loan becomes the owner of the collateralized shares. By becoming a shareholder, the financial institution may obtain voting rights in regards to company affairs and becomes a partial owner of the business whose shares it possesses.


   Loan Stock Businesses  

There are full-fledged businesses that function solely by providing options for loan-stock transactions, allowing a portfolio holder to obtain financing based on the value of his securities, as well as other factors such as the implied volatility of their holdings and creditworthiness. A loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is established based on the portfolio, similar to how a home's value is assessed when securing a home mortgage, and the funds are backed by the security holdings in the borrower's portfolio.


   Primary Dealer Credit Facility  

As an emergency measure the Federal Reserve expanded the range of eligible collateral on loans through its Primary Dealer Credit Facility (PDCF) to include some equities in September 2008. This was one among many unprecedented moves by the central bank in the face of the 2008 Financial Crisis, and the PDFC was later wound down in 2010 as the economy stabilized. 



In March of 2020 the Fed reopened the PDCF to address the stock market crash and liquidity problems associated with the spread of the COVID-19 virus and resulting containment measures instituted by public health officials. The reopened PDCF includes a broad range of equities as eligible collateral.



This makes the Fed a holder of loan stock collateral against the overnight loans it makes through the PDCF. This potentially exposes the Fed to substantial stock market risk, during a very volatile period, and could raise concerns that the Fed, as a government institution, might end up in the position of becoming a direct shareholder in some publicly traded companies.
What Is Loan Syndication?  

The term "loan syndication" refers to the process of involving a group of lenders that fund various portions of a loan for a single borrower. Loan syndication most often occurs when a borrower requires an amount that is too large for a single lender or when the loan is outside the scope of a lender's risk exposure levels. Multiple lenders pool together and form a syndicate to provide the borrower with the requested capital.





Key Takeaways

Loan syndication occurs when two or more lenders come together to fund one loan for a single borrower.Syndicates are created when a loan is too large for one bank or falls outside the risk tolerance of a bank.The banks in a loan syndicate share the risk and are only exposed to their portion of the loan.A loan syndicate always has a syndicate agent, which is the lead bank that organizes the loan, its terms, and other relevant information.The Loan Syndications and Trading Association provides resources on loan syndications within the corporate loan market.


   Understanding Loan Syndications  

Loan syndication is often used in corporate financing. Firms seek corporate loans for a variety of reasons, including funding for mergers, acquisitions, buyouts, and other capital expenditure projects. These capital projects often require large amounts of capital that typically exceed a single lender's resource or underwriting capacity.



There is only one loan agreement for the entire syndicate. But each lender's liability is limited to their respective share of the loan interest. With the exception of collateral requirements, most terms are generally uniform among lenders. Collateral assignments are generally assigned to different assets of the borrower for each lender. The syndicate does allow individual lenders to provide a large loan while maintaining more prudent and manageable credit exposure because the associated risks are shared with other lenders.



The agreements between lending parties and loan recipients are often managed by a corporate risk manager. This reduces any misunderstandings and helps enforce contractual obligations. The primary lender conducts most of the due diligence, but lax oversight can increase corporate costs. A company's legal counsel may also be engaged to enforce loan covenants and lender obligations.



The Loan Syndications and Trading Association is an established organization within the corporate loan market that seeks to provide resources on loan syndications. It helps to bring together loan market participants, provides market research, and is active in influencing compliance procedures and industry regulations.






Bank of America Securities, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo, and Citi are among the industry’s leading syndicators in the U.S. loan market, as of the first quarter of 2021.


   Special Considerations  

For most loan syndications, a lead financial institution is used to coordinate the transaction. This institution is often known as the syndicate agent. This agent is also often responsible for the initial transaction, fees, compliance reports, repayments throughout the duration of the loan, loan monitoring, and overall reporting for all lending parties.



A third party or additional specialists may be used throughout various points of the loan syndication or repayment process to assist with various aspects of reporting and monitoring. Loan syndications often require high fees because of the vast reporting and coordination required to complete and maintain the loan processing.


   Example of a Loan Syndication  

Let's say Company ABC wants to buy an abandoned airport and convert it into a large development with a sports stadium, multiple apartment complexes, and a mall. To do this, it needs a $1 billion loan.



The company goes to JPMorgan. The bank approves the loan. But because it's such a large amount and greater than the bank's risk tolerance, it decides to form a loan syndicate.



JPMorgan acts as the lead agent and brings together other banks to participate. It contracts Bank of America, Credit Suisse, Citi, and Wells Fargo to participate in the loan. JPMorgan contributes $300 million to the loan, and the remaining $700 million is shared between the other syndicate members. Bank of America lends out $200 million, Credit Suisse $100 million, Citi $250 million, and Wells Fargo $150 million.



As the lead bank, JPMorgan also organizes the terms, covenants, and other details needed for the loan. Once complete, Company ABC receives the $1 billion loan through the loan syndicate.




How Does Loan Syndication Work?
Loan syndication is a process that involves multiple banks and financial institutions who pool their capital together to finance a single loan for one borrower. There is only one contract and each bank is responsible for their own portion of the loan. One institution acts as the lead and is responsible for getting other banks on board, documentation, collateral assignment, and distribution of payments from the borrower.




Who Are the Parties Involved in Loan Syndication?
Loan syndication is a process that involves the borrower and two or more banks. One bank acts as the lead or the syndicate agent and is responsible for overseeing documentation and repayment. This bank then filters payments to the remaining banks.




How Does a Loan Syndication Affect the Borrower?
Loan syndication doesn't affect borrowers any differently than other types of loans. The borrower generally applies for a loan at one bank. If approved, this institution approaches others to form a syndicate, which allows them each to spread the risk. After the loan is advanced, the borrower signs a single contract, which names every member of the syndicate and their contribution to the loan. Regular payments are made to the lead bank, which divides it up among syndicate members.




What Are the Disadvantages of the Loan Syndication Process?
The main drawback to the loan syndication process is the amount of time it takes to get approved (or denied). That's because it can take a number of days (even weeks) to get approval and the syndicate together.
What Is the Loan-To-Cost Ratio (LTC)?  

The loan-to-cost (LTC) ratio is a metric used in commercial real estate construction to compare the financing of a project (as offered by a loan) with the cost of building the project. The LTC ratio allows commercial real estate lenders to determine the risk of offering a construction loan. It also allows developers to understand the amount of equity they retain during a construction project. Similar to the LTC ratio, the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio also compares the construction loan amount but with the fair-market value of the project after completion.


   The Formula for LTC Is  

﻿















Loan to Cost


=




Loan Amount




Construction Cost










\begin{aligned} &\text{Loan to Cost} = \frac{ \text{Loan Amount} }{ \text{Construction Cost} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Loan to Cost=Construction CostLoan Amount​​﻿





Key Takeaways

Loan-to-cost (LTC) compares the financing amount of a commercial real estate project to its cost. LTC is calculated as the loan amount divided by the construction cost. Meanwhile, loan-to-value (LTV) compares the loan amount to the expected market value of the completed project. A higher LTC means the project is riskier for lenders, where most lenders will only finance a project with an LTC of up to 80%. 


   What Does the Loan-To-Cost Ratio Tell You?  

The LTC ratio is used to calculate the percentage of a loan or the amount that a lender is willing to provide to finance a project based on the hard cost of the construction budget. After the construction has been completed, the entire project will have a new value. For this reason, the LTC ratio and the LTV ratios are used side by side in commercial real estate construction.



The LTC ratio helps to delineate the risk or risk level of providing financing for a construction project. Ultimately, a higher LTC ratio means that it is a riskier venture for lenders. Most lenders provide loans that finance only a certain percentage of a project. In general, most lenders finance up to 80% of a project. Some lenders finance a greater percentage, but this typically involves a significantly higher interest rate.



While the LTC ratio is a mitigating factor for lenders that are considering the provision of a loan, they must also consider other factors. Lenders will also take into account the location and value of the property on which the project is being built, the credibility and experience of builders, and the borrowers' credit record and loan history as well.


   Example of How to Use LTC  

As a hypothetical example, let's assume that the hard construction costs of a commercial real estate project are $200,000. To ensure that the borrower has some equity at stake in the project, the lender provides a $160,000 loan. This keeps the project slightly more balanced and encourages the borrower to see the project through its completion. The LTC ratio on this project would be calculated as $160,000 / $200,000 = 80%.


   The Difference Between Loan-to-Cost and Loan-to-Value Ratio  

Closely related to LTC is the loan-to-value ratio, but it is slightly different. The LTV ratio compares the total loan given for a project against the value of the project after completion (rather than to its cost of construction). Considering the above example, let us assume that the future value of the project, once completed, is double the hard construction costs, or $200,000. If the total loan given for the project, after completion, is $320,000, the LTV ratio for this project would also be 80% or $320,000 / $400,000.
What Is Loan-to-Deposit Ratio (LDR)?  

The loan-to-deposit ratio (LDR) is used to assess a bank's liquidity by comparing a bank's total loans to its total deposits for the same period. The LDR is expressed as a percentage. If the ratio is too high, it means that the bank may not have enough liquidity to cover any unforeseen fund requirements. Conversely, if the ratio is too low, the bank may not be earning as much as it could be.





Key Takeaways


The loan-to-deposit ratio is used to assess a bank's liquidity by comparing a bank's total loans to its total deposits for the same period.
To calculate the loan-to-deposit ratio, divide a bank's total amount of loans by the total amount of deposits for the same period. 
Typically, the ideal loan-to-deposit ratio is 80% to 90%. A loan-to-deposit ratio of 100 percent means a bank loaned one dollar to customers for every dollar received in deposits it received.﻿













Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Formula and Calculation for LDR  

﻿















LDR


=




Total Loans




Total Deposits










\begin{aligned} &\text{LDR} = \frac{ \text{Total Loans} }{ \text{Total Deposits} } \\ \end{aligned}


​LDR=Total DepositsTotal Loans​​﻿



To calculate the loan-to-deposit ratio, divide a bank's total amount of loans by the total amount of deposits for the same period. You can find the figures on a bank's balance sheet. Loans are listed as assets while deposits are listed as liabilities.


   What Does LDR Tell You?  

A loan-to-deposit ratio shows a bank's ability to cover loan losses and withdrawals by its customers. Investors monitor the LDR of banks to make sure there's adequate liquidity to cover loans in the event of an economic downturn resulting in loan defaults.



Also, the LDR helps to show how well a bank is attracting and retaining customers. If a bank's deposits are increasing, new money and new clients are being on-boarded. As a result, the bank will likely have more money to lend, which should increase earnings. Although it's counterintuitive, loans are an asset for a bank since banks earn interest income from lending. Deposits, on the other hand, are liabilities because banks must pay an interest rate on those deposits, albeit at a low rate.



The LDR can help investors determine if a bank is managed properly. If the bank isn't increasing its deposits or its deposits are shrinking, the bank will have less money to lend. In some cases, banks will borrow money to satisfy its loan demand in an attempt to boost interest income. However, if a bank is using debt to finance its lending operations instead of deposits, the bank will have debt servicing costs since it will need to pay interest on the debt.



As a result, a bank that borrows money to lend to its customers will typically have lower profit margins and more debt. A bank would rather use deposits to lend since the interest rates paid to depositors are far lower than the rates it would be charged for borrowing money. The LDR helps investors spot the banks that have enough deposits on hand to lend and won't need to resort to increasing their debt.



The proper LDR is a delicate balance for banks. If banks lend too much of their deposits, they might overextend themselves, particularly in an economic downturn. However, if banks lend too few of their deposits, they might have opportunity cost since their deposits would be sitting on their balance sheets earning no revenue. Banks with low LTD ratios might have lower interest income resulting in lower earnings.



Multiple factors can drive changes in the loan-to-deposit ratios. Economic conditions can impact loan demand as well as how much investors deposit. If consumers are unemployed, they're unlikely to increase their deposits. The Federal Reserve bank regulates monetary policy by raising and lowering interest rates. If rates are low, loan demand might increase depending on the economic conditions. In short, there are many outside factors that impact a bank's LDR.


   What Is an Ideal LDR?  

Typically, the ideal loan-to-deposit ratio is 80% to 90%. A loan-to-deposit ratio of 100% means a bank loaned one dollar to customers for every dollar received in deposits it received. It also means a bank will not have significant reserves available for expected or unexpected contingencies.



Regulations also factor into how banks are managed and ultimately their loan-to-deposit ratios. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation do not set minimum or maximum loan-to-deposit ratios for banks. However, these agencies monitor banks to see if their ratios are compliant with section 109 of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (Interstate Act).


   Example of LDR  

If a bank has $500 million in deposits and $400 million in loans, the bank's LDR ratio would be calculated by dividing the total loans by its total deposits.



﻿















LDR


=




$


4


0


0


 million




$


5


0


0


 million




=


.


8


=


8


0


%








\begin{aligned} &\text{LDR} = \frac{ \$400 \text{ million} }{ \$500 \text{ million} } = .8 = 80\% \\ \end{aligned}


​LDR=$500 million$400 million​=.8=80%​﻿


   LDR vs. LTV Ratio  

Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is an assessment of lending risk that financial institutions and other lenders examine before approving a mortgage. Typically, assessments with high LTV ratios are higher risk and, therefore, if the mortgage is approved, the loan costs the borrower more.



The LTV ratio measures the value of the property versus the amount of the loan while the LDR measure's a bank's ability to cover its loans with its deposits.


   Limitations of the LDR  

The LDR helps investors to assess the health of a bank's balance sheet, but there are limitations to the ratio. The LDR does not measure the quality of the loans that a bank has issued. The LDR also does not reflect the number of loans that are in default or might be delinquent in their payments.



As with all financial ratios, the LDR is most effective when compared to banks of the same size, and similar makeup. Also, it's important for investors to compare multiple financial metrics when comparing banks and making investment decisions.


   Real World Example of LDR  

As of 12/31/2018, Bank of America Corporation (BAC) reported its financial results according to its 8K statement and had the following numbers.



Total loans: $946.9 billionTotal deposits: $1,381.50 trillionBank of America's LDR is calculated as follows: $946.9 / $1,381.50LDR = 68.5%



The ratio tells us that Bank of America lent roughly 70% of its deposits by the end of 2018.
What Is the Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratio?  

The loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is an assessment of lending risk that financial institutions and other lenders examine before approving a mortgage. Typically, loan assessments with high LTV ratios are considered higher-risk loans. Therefore, if the mortgage is approved, the loan has a higher interest rate.



Additionally, a loan with a high LTV ratio may require the borrower to purchase mortgage insurance to offset the risk to the lender. This type of insurance is called private mortgage insurance (PMI).





Key Takeaways

Loan-to-value (LTV) is an often used ratio in mortgage lending to determine the amount necessary to put in a down payment and whether a lender will extend credit to a borrower.Lower LTVs are better in the eyes of lenders, but require borrowers to come up with larger down payments.Most lenders offer mortgage and home-equity applicants the lowest possible interest rate when the loan-to-value ratio is at or below 80%.Mortgages become more expensive for borrowers with higher LTVs.Fannie Mae's HomeReady and Freddie Mac's Home Possible mortgage programs for low-income borrowers allow an LTV ratio of 97% (3% down payment) but require mortgage insurance (PMI) until the ratio falls to 80%.


   How to Calculate the Loan-to-Value Ratio  

Interested homebuyers can easily calculate the LTV ratio of a home. This is the formula:


















L


T


V


r


a


t


i


o


=




M


A




A


P


V


















where:
















M


A


=


Mortgage Amount
















A


P


V


=


Appraised Property Value







\begin{aligned} &LTV ratio=\frac{MA}{APV}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &MA = \text{Mortgage Amount}\\ &APV = \text{Appraised Property Value}\\ \end{aligned}


​LTVratio=APVMA​where:MA=Mortgage AmountAPV=Appraised Property Value​



An LTV ratio is calculated by dividing the amount borrowed by the appraised value of the property, expressed as a percentage. For example, if you buy a home appraised at $100,000 for its appraised value, and make a $10,000 down payment, you will borrow $90,000. This results in an LTV ratio of 90% (i.e., 90,000/100,000).


   Understanding the Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratio  

Determining an LTV ratio is a critical component of mortgage underwriting. It may be used in the process of buying a home, refinancing a current mortgage into a new loan, or borrowing against accumulated equity within a property.



Lenders assess the LTV ratio to determine the level of exposure to risk they take on when underwriting a mortgage. When borrowers request a loan for an amount that is at or near the appraised value (and therefore has a higher LTV ratio), lenders perceive that there is a greater chance of the loan going into default. This is because there is very little equity built up within the property.



As a result, in the event of a foreclosure, the lender may find it difficult to sell the home for enough to cover the outstanding mortgage balance and still make a profit from the transaction.






The main factors that impact LTV ratios are the amount of the down payment, sales price, and the appraised value of a property. The lowest LTV ratio is achieved with a higher down payment and a lower sales price.


   How LTV Is Used by Lenders  

A LTV ratio is only one factor in determining eligibility for securing a mortgage, a home equity loan, or a line of credit. However, it can play a substantial role in the interest rate that a borrower is able to secure. Most lenders offer mortgage and home-equity applicants the lowest possible interest rate when their LTV ratio is at or below 80%.



A higher LTV ratio does not exclude borrowers from being approved for a mortgage, although the interest on the loan may rise as the LTV ratio increases. For example, a borrower with an LTV ratio of 95% may be approved for a mortgage. However, their interest rate may be a full percentage point higher than the interest rate given to a borrower with an LTV ratio of 75%.



If the LTV ratio is higher than 80%, a borrower may be required to purchase private mortgage insurance (PMI). This can add anywhere from 0.5% to 1% to the total amount of the loan on an annual basis. For example, PMI with a rate of 1% on a $100,000 loan would add an additional $1,000 to the total amount paid per year (or $83.33 per month). PMI payments are required until the LTV ratio is 80% or lower. The LTV ratio will decrease as you pay down your loan and as the value of your home increases over time.



In general, the lower the LTV ratio, the greater the chance that the loan will be approved and the lower the interest rate is likely to be. In addition, as a borrower, it's less likely that you will be required to purchase private mortgage insurance (PMI).



While it is not a law that lenders require an 80% LTV ratio in order for borrowers to avoid the additional cost of PMI, it is the practice of nearly all lenders. Exceptions to this requirement are sometimes made for borrowers who have a high income, lower debt, or have a large investment portfolio.





< 80%

As a rule of thumb, a good loan-to-value ratio should be no greater than 80%. Anything above 80% is considered to be a high LTV, which means that borrowers may face higher borrowing costs, require private mortgage insurance, or be denied a loan. LTVs above 95% are often considered unacceptable.


   Mortgage Example of LTV  

For example, suppose you buy a home that appraises for $100,000. However, the owner is willing to sell it for $90,000. If you make a $10,000 down payment, your loan is for $80,000, which results in an LTV ratio of 80% (i.e., 80,000/100,000). If you were to increase the amount of your down payment to $15,000, your mortgage loan is now $75,000. This would make your LTV ratio 75% (i.e., 75,000/100,000).


   Variations on LTV Ratio Rules  

Different loan types may have different rules when it comes to LTV ratio requirements.


  FHA Loans  

FHA loans are mortgages designed for low-to-moderate-income borrowers. They are issued by an FHA-approved lender and insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).



FHA loans require a lower minimum down payment and credit scores than many conventional loans. FHA loans allow an initial LTV ratio of up to 96.5%, but they require a mortgage insurance premium (MIP) that lasts for as long as you have that loan (no matter how low the LTV ratio eventually goes).



Many people decide to refinance their FHA loans once their LTV ratio reaches 80% in order to eliminate the MIP requirement.


  VA and USDA Loans  

VA and USDA loans—available to current and former military or those in rural areas—do not require private mortgage insurance even though the LTV ratio can be as high as 100%. However, both VA and USDA loans do have additional fees.


  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  

Fannie Mae's HomeReady and Freddie Mac's Home Possible mortgage programs for low-income borrowers allow an LTV ratio of 97%. However, they require mortgage insurance until the ratio falls to 80%.



For FHA, VA, and USDA loans, there are streamlined refinancing options available. These waive appraisal requirements so the home's LTV ratio doesn't affect the loan. For borrowers with an LTV ratio over 100%—also known as being "underwater" or "upside down"—Fannie Mae's High Loan-to-Value Refinance Option and Freddie Mac's Enhanced Relief Refinance are also available options.





Important

Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.


   LTV vs. Combined LTV (CLTV)  

While the LTV ratio looks at the impact of a single mortgage loan when purchasing a property, the combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio is the ratio of all secured loans on a property to the value of a property. This includes not only the primary mortgage used in LTV but also any second mortgages, home equity loans or lines of credit, or other liens.



Lenders use the CLTV ratio to determine a prospective home buyer's risk of default when more than one loan is used—for example, if they will have two or more mortgages, or a mortgage plus a home equity loan or line of credit (HELOC). In general, lenders are willing to lend at CLTV ratios of 80% and above and to borrowers with high credit ratings. Primary lenders tend to be more generous with CLTV requirements since it is a more thorough measure.



Let's look a little closer at the difference. The LTV ratio only considers the primary mortgage balance on a home. Therefore, if the primary mortgage balance is $100,000 and the home value is $200,000, LTV = 50%.



Consider, however, the example if it also has a second mortgage in the amount of $30,000 and a HELOC of $20,000. The combined loan to value now becomes ($100,000 + $30,000 + $20,000 / $200,000) = 75%; a much higher ratio.



These combined considerations are especially important if the mortgagee defaults and goes into foreclosure.




What Is a Good LTV?
Most lenders use 80% as the threshold for a good loan-to-value (LTV) ratio. Anything below this value is even better. Note that borrowing costs can become higher, or borrowers may be denied loans, as the LTV rises above 80%.




What Are Disadvantages of Loan-to-Value?
The main drawback of the information that a LTV provides is that it only includes the primary mortgage that a homeowner owes, and does not include in its calculations other obligations of the borrower, such as a second mortgage or home equity loan. Therefore, the CLTV is a more inclusive measure of a borrower's ability to repay a home loan.




What Does a 70% LTV Mean?
A 70% (0.70) loan-to-value (LTV) ratio indicates that the amount borrowed is equal to seventy percent of the value of the asset. In the case of a mortgage, it would mean that the borrower has come up with a 30% down payment and is financing the rest. For instance, a $500,000 property with a 70% LTV would have a $150,000 down payment and a $350,000 mortgage.




How Is LTV Calculated?
Loan-to-value (LTV) is calculated simply by taking the loan amount and dividing it by the value of the asset or collateral being borrowed against. In the case of a mortgage, this would be the mortgage amount divided by the property's value.
What Is a Lobby?  

The term lobby refers to a group of people who band together and try to influence politicians and other individuals in public office. A lobby is typically formed to influence government officials to act in a way that is beneficial to the lobby's or an industry's best interests, either through favorable legislation or by blocking unfavorable measures. The term is also used as a verb to describe the influence that a group of individuals exerts over other people.





Key Takeaways

A lobby is a group of people who band together and try to influence people in public office and politicians.The term may also allude to the action of exerting influence on public officials.Lobbies are formed to influence officials to act in a way that is beneficial to the lobby's best interests, either through favorable legislation or by blocking unfavorable measures.Lobbyists are commonly held in a negative light because they are seemingly able to circumvent the democratic process.Direct lobbying tries to influence government officials while the aim of grassroots lobbying is to influence public opinion by asking individuals to contact their elected officials about certain issues and legislation.


   How Lobbies Work  

The term lobby came into use in the American political landscape in the 1800s in U.S. statehouses in the northeast. The very first lobby in the United States Congress was the room outside the chamber, which was one of the easiest places to run into House Representatives. This was generally where people were able to meet with politicians, have their say, and try to persuade them to vote a certain way.



The term's meaning began to shift as people gave up meeting in this physical lobby. As mentioned above, a lobby is a group of individuals or companies that use their influence over public officials. It also means the action of trying to exert influence over other individuals. Lobbyists are particularly active and well-funded by certain industries, notably pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, insurance, aerospace and defense, utilities, banks, and real estate.



Lobbies and lobbyists are paid substantially by their clients to sway the decisions of lawmakers to pass legislation for the industries they serve. Lobbies are often seen negatively because of the influence they exert and the amount of power they hold. That's why they can circumvent the democratic process and conduct what most people call back-office deals.



It may not seem fair to the average citizen that an interest group can seemingly buy a vote, but that is how it works in politics. Despite anti-lobbying rhetoric spewed by many candidates on the campaign trail, the candidate, if elected into office, does little or nothing to put an end to special interest money. In fact, these politicians often expose themselves as hypocrites when they accept donations from lobbies.






Although they are generally looked down upon, some lobbies can have a positive impact on society, such as those tied to environmental groups, education, and human rights.


   Special Considerations  

Lobbyists who walk around Washington D.C. and state capitals may serve a positive role in illuminating or clarifying issues that are germane to industries or professions, but they are generally viewed pejoratively as special interest groups.



Practical-minded people should note that competing interests in a democratic process are natural. Where lines may be drawn, however, are in cases that are considered harmful to society by a majority of Americans.



For instance, there is a debate about whether guns and tobacco fit into this category. The same goes for processed foods, sugary drinks, and expensive drugs. Some do not like the lobbies that push their agendas. Also, if a lobby simply outspends a competing interest to get what it wants, the question of fairness arises.



There are lobbies, on the other hand, that are seen as positive where the public good is concerned. Some of them are even considered essential. These lobbies are tied to environmental groups, education, and human rights, to name a few. These lobbies may not be as well-funded as the industries and interest groups that oppose them, but at least they have a voice.






Many citizens liken the actions of lobbies to bribery because they may promise politicians financial support and backing during their political campaigns in exchange for votes on legislation.


   Types of Lobbying  

Lobbying can take on a few different forms. The two most common are:



Direct Lobbying: This type of lobbying involves any direct communication and/or contact with a government official and/or a member of a legislating body. The purpose of this type of lobbying is to use this contact to influence legislation. For instance, special interest groups on both sides of the abortion debate may donate funds to politicians to try to influence legislation on the issue.Grassroots Lobbying: Rather than approach government officials directly, people involved in grassroots lobbying try to influence the public with respect to specific forms of legislation. This requires educating people and urging them to contact their elected representatives by phone or mail to sway them to their side. For example, healthcare advocacy groups commonly send emails to individuals on their mailing lists asking them to contact government officials about rising healthcare costs. 


   Example of a Lobby  

The National Rifle Association is one of the most well-known lobbies in the United States. The organization was founded in 1871. The organization had roots in the promotion of shooting sports and hunting. Over time, it expanded and became an advocacy group for gun owners around the country.



The NRA calls itself a "major political force" whose effectiveness is due to several factors, including:



A dedicated membership baseAvoiding issues that may divide its baseThe support of law enforcementA commitment to crime and punishment



The organization committed about $1.59 million to its lobbying efforts in 2022.
What Is a Local Tax?  

A local tax is an assessment by a state, county, or municipality to fund public services ranging from education to garbage collection and sewer maintenance. Local taxes come in many forms, from property taxes and payroll taxes to sales taxes and licensing fees. They can vary widely from one jurisdiction to the next.



Taxes levied by cities and towns are also referred to as municipal taxes.


   Understanding Local Tax  

The U.S. Constitution gives the federal government the authority, and the states the right, to impose taxes on their residents.﻿﻿



Local taxes fund government services including police and fire services, education and health services, libraries, road maintenance, and other programs and projects which benefit the community at large. Many of these services also receive federal funds in the form of grants.



State, county, and municipal taxes may be referred to as local taxes, as opposed to federal taxes.





Key Takeaways

Most states impose an income tax, which is withheld from employee paychecks.Most states and some cities and towns impose sales taxes on goods and services.For most homeowners, the property tax bill is the biggest single local tax they pay.



Unlike federal taxes, the benefits arising from local taxes are generally apparent at the community level. Municipalities face a constant balancing act with regards to levying local taxes, since high taxes meet with resistance while low taxes lead to cutbacks in essential services.



Among the common types of taxes that many states impose are personal income tax, corporate income tax, estate tax, fuel tax, and sales tax.


   Types of Local Taxes  
  The Property Tax  

The largest single tax bill that is received by most people is the local residential property tax imposed on homeowners. This is generally based on the assessed value of the home.



Each state establishes the guidelines under which local governments can impose property taxes.


  Miscellaneous Local Taxes  

States and cities that impose a local income tax withhold the tax from employee wages. Local wage taxes are relatively rare. A total of 16 states permit them. In addition, Ohio and Pennsylvania impose local levies known as school district taxes to help fund education costs.



A sales tax is imposed on goods and services sold to residents of a state or municipality. This is known as a regressive tax rather than a progressive tax because every customer pays the same percentage regardless of income.






Education, public safety, and road maintenance are among the priorities of local governments.



All but five states have sales taxes (Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire, and Oregon). Many have complex sales tax laws that exclude some goods like food and reduce the percentage charged on others, such as cars. A number of states impose higher "sin taxes" on cigarettes and liquor.



In some states, a smaller city tax may be added to the state tax. Many states also have a use tax, which is due on major items purchased outside of the state, most notably vehicles.


  Other Government Funding Sources  

Municipal authorities typically issue bonds to fund some capital projects in the community.



Investors who purchase municipal bonds are lending money to the government which promises to repay a set amount of interest and repay the principal on a future date.



To service the debt, that is, to fulfill interest and principal repayment obligations on the bonds, a municipal government may issue a new tax or raise existing local taxes.
What Does Lock in Profits Mean?  

Locking in profits refers to the realization of previously unrealized gains accrued in a security by closing all or a portion of the holdings. When an investor holds an open position, they may accrue unrealized or paper gains or losses that aren't realized until the position is closed. An example is when an investor that's long on a security can lock in profits by selling their stake for a gain. By doing this they are no longer subject to changes in the underlying.



Also known as "realization" or "taking money off the table."





Key Takeaways

Locking in profits refers to the realization of previously unrealized gains accrued in a security by closing all or a portion of the holdings.When an investor holds an open position, they may accrue unrealized or paper gains or losses that aren't realized until the position is closed.Investors may lock in profits for many reasons, but they often do so to reduce risk. Locking in profits is also commonly known as realization or taking money off the table.


   Understanding Lock in Profits  

Traders and investors may lock in profits for many different reasons, but often times, it's to reduce risk. 



Long-term investors may lock in profits to maintain their portfolio balance. For example, an investor may have started with a portfolio divided equally among five funds. If one fund outperforms, its portfolio allocation might grow from 20% to 30%, which exposes the investor to added risk. The investor may lock in the profits for a portion of the outperforming fund and redistribute the proceeds among the other four funds to maintain an ideal portfolio allocation that minimizes risk and maximizes profits.



Short-term traders often lock in profits to generate income and reduce risk. For example, a trader may open a long position after a bullish earnings announcement with a series of price targets. After the stock reaches the first price target, the trader may lock in profits for one-third of the position and continue to hold the other two-thirds of the position until a higher price target is reached. This way, the trader is taking some money off the table and reducing their risk if the stock were to suddenly turn lower.



Traders set price targets to lock in profits using various forms of technical analysis, such as technical indicators or chart patterns, whereas long-term investors may lock in profits based on asset allocations or risk tolerance.


   Example of Locking in Profits  

Suppose that you purchase 100 shares of Acme Co. for $12 and the price went up to $36 two days later. All potential profits are unrealized because the position isn't partially or fully closed. If the stock moves lower, your profits will dwindle, and vice versa if it goes higher.



You may decide to lock in the profits by selling 50 shares because 50 x $36 = $1,800. Even if the stock ends up dropping to $1, you will have still made a profit. In other words, locking in profits made it possible to "play with house money" in the investment.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Lock-Up Agreement?  

A lock-up agreement is a contractual provision preventing insiders of a company from selling their shares for a specified period of time. They are commonly used as part of the initial public offering (IPO) process.



Although lock-up agreements are not required under federal law, underwriters will often require executives, venture capitalists (VCs), and other company insiders to sign lock-up agreements in order to prevent excessive selling pressure in the first few months of trading following an IPO.





Key Takeaways

A lock-up agreement temporarily prevents company insiders from selling shares following an IPO.It is used to protect investors against excessive selling pressure by insiders.Share prices often decline following the expiration of a lock-up agreement. Depending on the fundamentals of the company, this can present an opportunity for new investors to buy in at lower prices.


   How Lock-Up Agreements Work  

Lock-up periods typically last 180 days, but on occasion can be as brief as 90 days or as long as one year. Sometimes, all insiders will be "locked out" for the same period of time. In other cases, the agreement will have a staggered lock-up structure in which different classes of insiders are locked out for different periods of time. Although federal law does not require companies to employ lock-up periods, they may nevertheless be required under states' blue sky laws.



The details of a company's lock-up agreements are always disclosed in the prospectus documents for the company in question. These can be secured either by contacting the company's investor relations department or by using the Securities and Exchanges Commission's (SEC) Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) database.



The purpose of a lock-up agreement is to prevent company insiders from dumping their shares on new investors in the weeks and months following an IPO. Some of these insiders may be early investors such as VC firms, who bought into the company when it was worth significantly less than its IPO value. Therefore, they may have a strong incentive to sell their shares and realize a gain on their initial investment.



Similarly, company executives and certain employees may have been given stock options as part of their employment agreements. As in the case of VCs, these employees may be tempted to exercise their options and sell their shares, as the company's IPO price would almost certainly be far above the exercise price of their options.


   Special Considerations  

From a regulatory perspective, lock-up agreements are meant to help protect investors. The scenario that the lock-up agreement is meant to avoid is a group of insiders taking an overvalued company public, then dumping it on investors while running away with the proceeds. This was a real issue during several periods of market exuberance in the United States and is the reason why some blue sky laws still have lock-ups as a legal requirement.



Even when a lock-up agreement is in place, investors that are not insiders to the company can still be affected once that lock-up agreement runs past its expiration date. When lock-ups expire, company insiders are permitted to sell their stock. If many of the insiders and VCs are looking to exit, this can result in a drastic drop in the share price due to the huge increase in the supply of the stock. 



Of course, an investor can look at this in two ways, depending on their perception of the quality of the underlying company. The post-lock-up drop, if it indeed occurs, can be an opportunity to buy shares at a temporarily depressed price. On the other hand, it can be the first sign that the IPO was overpriced, signaling the start of a long-term decline.


   Example of a Lock-Up Agreement  

Studies have shown that the expiration of a lock-up agreement is generally followed by a period of abnormal returns. Unfortunately for investors, these abnormal returns are more often in the negative direction.



Interestingly enough, some of these studies found that staggered lock-up agreements can actually impact a stock more negatively than those with a single expiration date. This is surprising, as staggered lock-up agreements are often seen as a solution to the post-lock-up dip.
What is a Lock-Up Period?  

A lock-up period is a window of time when investors are not allowed to redeem or sell shares of a particular investment. There are two main uses for lock-up periods, those for hedge funds and those for start-ups/IPO’s.



For hedge funds, the lock-up period is intended to give the hedge fund manager time to exit investments that may be illiquid or otherwise unbalance their portfolio of investments too rapidly. Hedge fund lock-ups are typically 30-90 days, giving the hedge fund manager time to exit investments without driving prices against their overall portfolio.



For start-ups, or companies looking to go public through an IPO, lock-periods help show that company leadership remains intact and that the business model remains on solid footing. It also allows the IPO issuer to retain more cash for continuing growth.


   How a Lock-Up Period Works  

The lock-up period for hedge funds corresponds with the underlying investments of each fund. For example, a long/shortfund invested mostly in liquid stocks may have a one-month lock-up period. However, because event-driven or hedge funds often invest in more thinly traded securities like distressed loans or other debt, they tend to have prolonged lock-up periods. Still, other hedge funds may have no lockup period at all depending on the structure of the fund's investments.



When the lock-up period ends, investors may redeem their shares according to a set schedule, often quarterly. They normally must give a 30- to 90-day notice so that the fund manager may liquidate underlying securities that allow for payment to the investors.





Key Takeaways

Lock-up periods are when investors cannot sell particular shares or securities.Lock-up periods are used to preserve liquidity and maintain market stability.Hedge fund managers use them to maintain portfolio stability and liquidity.Start-ups/IPO’s use them to retain cash and show market resilience.



During the lock-up period, a hedge fund manager may invest in securities according to the fund’s goals without concern for share redemption. The manager has time for building strong positions in various assets and maximizing potential gains while keeping less cash on hand. In the absence of a lock-up period and scheduled redemption schedule, a hedge fund manager would need a great amount of cash or cash equivalents available at all times. Less money would be invested, and returns may be lower. Also, because each investor’s lock-up period varies by his personal investment date, massive liquidation cannot take place for any given fund at one time.






Lock-up periods can also be used to retain key employees, where stock awards are not redeemable for a certain period to keep an employee from moving to a competitor, maintain continuity, or until they have completed a key mission.


   Example of a Lock-Up Period  

As an example, a fictitious hedge fund, Epsilon & Co., invests in distressed South American debt. The interest returns are high, but the market liquidity is low. If one of Epsilon’s customers sought to sell a large portion of its portfolio in Epsilon at one time, it would likely send prices far lower than if Epsilon sold portions of its holdings over a longer period of time. But since Epsilon has a 90-day lock-up period, it gives them time to sell more gradually, allowing the market to absorb the sales more evenly and keep prices more stable, resulting in a better outcome for the investor and Epsilon than may otherwise have been the case. 


   Special Considerations  

The lock-up period for newly issued public shares of a company helps stabilize the stock price after it enters the market. When the stock’s price and demand are up, the company brings in more money. If business insiders sold their shares to the public, it would appear the business is not worth investing in, and stock prices and demand would go down.



When a privately held company begins the process of going public, key employees may received reduced cash compensation in exchange for shares of the company's stock. Many of these employees may want to cash in their shares as quickly as possible after the company goes public. The lock-up period prevents stock from being sold immediately after the IPO when share prices may be artificially high and susceptible to extreme price volatility.
What Is Lockbox Banking?  

Lockbox banking is a service provided by banks to companies for the receipt of payment from customers. Under the service, the payments made by customers are directed to a special post office box instead of going to the company. The bank goes to the box, retrieves the payments, processes them and deposits the funds directly into the company's bank account.





Key Takeaways

Lockbox banking is a service provided by banks to companies for the receipt of payment from customers.There are pros can cons when it comes to lockbox banking; while it is convenient, it can also be risky and lead to potential fraud, like counterfeiting. Utilizing advanced lockbox technology, banks have established multiple communication hubs for businesses to use to receive payments and deposits.Businesses can use lockbox banking to lower their internal processing costs, convert receivables into cash quickly, and speed up collections.


   How Lockbox Banking Works  

For businesses that receive a large volume of payments or large-denomination checks accompanied by remittance documents, a lockbox arrangement can streamline collections and payment processing. Utilizing advanced lockbox technology, banks have established multiple communication hubs for businesses to use to receive payments and deposits.



A business establishes a post office box to receive payments from customers. The bank couriers the day's deposits and communications to its processing center. The business's remittance documents are scanned, payment information is captured, and clearing updates are transmitted to its accounts receivable. Each night, the business's lockbox data is backed up for secure storage and easy access.


   Cost of Lockbox Banking  

There are a number of costs to consider when pursuing lockbox banking. Some of these costs may include but aren't limited to:



Setup Fees: When establishing the lockbox banking service for a business, banks may levie a one-time setup fee. The lockbox system's initial setup and implementation are covered by this cost.Transaction-Based Fees: Lockbox banking frequently entails transaction-based fees, which are assessed for each payment accepted. These charges may differ depending on the method of payment (such as electronic or check), the quantity of items handled, and any additional services required.Monthly Maintenance Fees: Banks may charge monthly maintenance fees to cover the cost of continuous lockbox service management and administration. These costs assure that the service will continue to be available regardless of the number of transactions.Reporting Fees: In addition to the regular reporting that is part of the lockbox service, certain banks may charge additional fees for providing detailed reports and payment details. If organizations need specialized or extensive reporting options, these fees can be necessary.Integration Fees: There might be costs involved with the creation, modification, and continuing maintenance of an integration between lockbox banking and an organization's current accounting software or systems.






Consider the implications of receiving cash sooner when evaluating costs. For example, having funds hit your bank account sooner means your deposits will begin earning interest revenue sooner.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Lockbox Banking  
  Pros of Lockbox Banking  

As with most payment processing services, there are both pros and cons to lockbox banking. It provides companies with a very efficient way of depositing customer payments. This is especially beneficial if a company is unable to deposit checks on a timely basis or if it is constantly receiving customer payments through the mail.



Lockbox banking also enhances payment security by minimizing the handling of physical checks and reducing the risk of loss or theft during the payment collection process. Banks have robust security measures in place to protect payment information and funds. Therefore, using lockbox banking may reduce lost, stole, or misappropriated funds.



Lockbox banking services often provide businesses with detailed reports and information about each payment received. This consolidated view of payment data simplifies reconciliation and provides businesses with valuable insights into their receivables. Plus, many lockbox banking services offer integration with accounting software, allowing for seamless reconciliation and automatic import of transaction data. Regarding both of these two points, lockbox banking may simplify the accounting process.


  Cons of Lockbox Banking  

On the other hand, lockbox banking can also be very risky. Bank employees who have access to lockboxes are rarely supervised, which opens up the situation to possible fraud. The fraud primarily occurs in the form of check counterfeiting, because the checks that are in the lockboxes provide all the information needed to make duplicates.



Lockbox banking is not usually not free, as the service typically come with fees charged by the bank. These fees can vary based on factors such as transaction volume, processing requirements, and additional services. Businesses should carefully assess these costs to determine if the benefits outweigh the expenses.



There are several risks relating to the specific bank in which the lockbox is being held at. The efficiency and accuracy of lockbox banking rely on the bank's performance. If there are delays, errors, or disruptions in the bank's processing, it can impact the speed of fund availability or create complications in reconciliation. Therefore, the lockbox banking process is only as good as the functionality of the bank's staff.



Last, while lockbox banking can handle traditional paper checks and electronic payments, it may not cover all payment methods or channels. Businesses that receive payments through alternative methods such as online platforms or mobile apps may need additional processes to integrate those payments with lockbox services. Therefore, a company's financials may still need in-house financial recordkeeping solutions even if part of the revenue channels are streamlined.





Pros

Often improves cashflow management and receivable turnover
Enhances financial security
May simplify the accounting process in certain manners
May integrate with many transactions types



Cons

Often comes at a fee based on transaction volume or processing requirements
Relinquishes some control over funds
Relies on the bank and its staff for smooth operations
Often will not cover all transaction types





   Lockbox Banking vs. Safety Deposit Box  

A safety deposit box and lockbox banking are two separate financial services with different uses. By offering a specific address for clients to send payments to, lockbox banking primarily focuses on expediting the accounts receivable process for businesses. A safety deposit box, on the other hand, is a secure storage space offered by banks for people to protect valuable objects, papers, or assets.



Though both are meant to provide consumer protection, they are vastly different that don't necessary overlap in functionality. Lockbox banking focuses on facilitating payment processing and improving cash flow for businesses, while a safety deposit box serves as a secure storage solution. Lockbox banking is transaction-oriented and aimed at optimizing financial operations. Meanwhile, a safety deposit box is primarily for physical storage purposes and not necessarily meant for daily operations.


   Lockbox Banking and Accounting  

Businesses using lockbox banking can substantially lower their internal processing costs, speed up collections and convert their receivables into cash more quickly. There is no need for businesses to prepare their own bank deposits or maintain accounting records because that is done automatically through lockbox banking. In this manner, companies often turn to lockbox banking to reduce their days receivables outstanding to ensure checks are deposited as fast as possible.



Part of the lockbox processing is done on a daily basis, so businesses can also increase their internal control and efficiency in receivables management while improving audit controls and data security. Businesses benefit from enhanced reporting capabilities with daily access to deposit amounts, fund availability and payment information, including electronic images of processed payments and coupons. In addition, physical checks may not linger undeposited for as long.




Is Lockbox Banking Suitable for Small Businesses?
Lockbox banking can be beneficial for businesses of all sizes, including small businesses. It helps small businesses improve their cash flow by accelerating the collection and processing of payments, allowing them to focus on core operations rather than manual payment handling.




Are There Different Types of Lockbox Banking Services?
Yes, there are different types of lockbox banking services available to meet varying business needs. Some common types include wholesale lockbox for high-value payments, retail lockbox for lower-value payments, and electronic lockbox for digital payment processing.




How Can Businesses Reconcile Lockbox Transactions?
To reconcile lockbox transactions, businesses can use the information provided by the bank in the form of reports. These reports typically include details about each payment received, such as the payer's name, amount, and invoice number. By comparing this information with their own records, businesses can easily reconcile their accounts.




Can Lockbox Banking Be Integrated with Accounting Software?
Yes, many lockbox banking services offer integration with popular accounting software. This integration allows businesses to streamline their payment reconciliation process by automatically importing lockbox transaction data into their accounting system.


   The Bottom Line  

Lockbox banking is a service provided by banks to help businesses streamline their accounts receivable process. It involves directing customers to send their payments to a designated lockbox address where the bank collects and processes the payments on behalf of the business. Lockbox banking offers benefits such as faster access to funds, improved cash flow management, and reduced administrative tasks.
What Is Locked In?  

Locked in describes a situation wherein an investor is unwilling or unable to trade a security because of regulations, taxes, or penalties associated with doing so. This may occur in an investment vehicle, such as a retirement plan that an employee may not access before a specified retirement date.





Key Takeaways

An investor is "locked in" when they are unwilling or unable to trade a security because of regulations, taxes, or penalties that prevent it from being profitable or make it illegal to do so.Stocks, options and warrants offered under employee incentive programs, which usually come with a mandatory vesting period, can all become locked in.Shares issued in initial public offerings are often locked in by rules that aim to prevent company insiders from gaining an unfair trading advantage.


   Understanding Locked In  

If there is an increase in the value of stocks held by an individual, the shareholder will be subject to a capital-gains tax, with some exceptions. To reduce the tax burden, an investor could shelter these gains in a retirement account. The individual is considered locked in because if a portion of this investment is withdrawn prior to maturity, the owner will be taxed at a higher rate than if they had waited.



Locked-in securities can describe stock, options, and warrants offered to employees under incentive programs that promote company loyalty and encourage strong performance. Many of these programs come with mandatory vesting periods during which the employee has been granted the securities but may not yet exercise them (meaning converted to cash or stock).



Typically, such shares or warrants must be held for several years before they can be exercised. There may be phases of the locked-in period when, at stipulated intervals, the shares change ownership or tax status.



Even after options or warrants have been converted into stock and granted to an employee, there may be another holding period before they can sell those shares. In such instances, the employees usually receive the options at the market price at the time they were granted, which may represent a deep discount to the market price when they are exercised. Depending on when the stock is sold, the proceeds might be taxed at a lower rate than initially imposed.


   Reasons for Locked-In Shares  

When a company launches an initial public offering (IPO), or a first-time issue of its stock to the general public, there may be lock-in stipulations on shares held by founders, promoters, and other early backers of the company. This is to prohibit these people, as company insiders, from selling or transferring shares during the IPO period, when they might have advantageous company information that outside investors don't.



This period might last 90 days or even several years after the IPO. A lock-in period mitigates the possibility of such manipulation by restricting insider trades.



Executives and senior management might also be compensated with locked-in shares that are not released for a period of time after they are initially granted in order to encourage superior performance.
What Is a Locked-in Retirement Account (LIRA)?  

A Locked-in Retirement Account (LIRA) is a type of registered pension account in Canada that does not permit withdrawals before retirement except in exceptional circumstances. Locked-in Retirement Accounts are designed to hold pension funds for former employer-sponsored plan participants and certain others until they reach retirement age.





Key Takeaways

A Locked-in Retirement Account (LIRA) is a Canadian pension savings account funded by money transferred over from an employer-sponsored pension plan by the account’s beneficiary.The funds are tax-sheltered and cannot be withdrawn until retirement.At retirement, the money in an LIRA can be transferred to another retirement fund or used to purchase a life annuity.Locked-in Retirement Accounts are governed by provincial pension laws.Federal pension laws govern a similar type of account known as a locked-in Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP).


   Understanding the LIRA  

An LIRA is a tax-deferred retirement account used to shelter money transferred in from an employer-sponsored pension plan, much like a 401(k)-to-individual-retirement-account (IRA) rollover in the United States. An LIRA can only be funded in that way, and you cannot make additional contributions to it.



Transferring money from an employer pension into an LIRA is allowed only under certain circumstances. For example, the beneficiary may have left the employer, the pension funds may have been divided up with a former spouse as a result of a divorce settlement, or the beneficiary may have died, leaving the money in their pension to an heir.



Cash withdrawals are not permitted while the funds are locked in, although the account may be unlocked under certain emergency circumstances. Pension funds that are transferred to an LIRA can later be used to purchase a life annuity or can be transferred to a life income fund (LIF) or a locked-in retirement income fund (LRIF) or some combination of those.



Once the account’s beneficiary reaches retirement age, the life annuity, LIF, or LRIF will provide them with a pension for life.



A Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) (except for the locked-in kind) can be cashed in at the owner’s discretion. An LIRA does not have such an option.





Note

If the employer pension plan is under federal, rather than provincial, jurisdiction, then the participant’s money would be transferred into a locked-in Registered Retirement Savings Plan (also known as a locked-in RRSP), rather than an LIRA. The two are very similar in the way they work.


   Government Requirements for LIRAs  

LIRA plans are governed by provincial pension laws. Every locked-in pension must comply with the laws of a specific province.



According to the Québec government website, for example:



Unlike an RRSP, the funds in an LIRA are locked-in and can only be used to provide a retirement income. Thus, the amounts cannot be withdrawn, except under certain circumstances in which a refund from your LIRA is permitted. Like an RRSP, you can hold an LIRA until Dec. 31 of the year in which you reach age 71. Before that date, you can transfer your LIRA to another LIRA, for example, if you change financial institutions. You can also transfer your life income fund (LIF) to an LIRA, in particular when you want to postpone payment of a retirement income. Consult the list of financial institutions offering LIRAs or LIFs to find out what transfer instruments are available.



Depending on the province in which the plan owner lives, there can be different rules on how to unlock locked-in pension funds. The allowable reasons for unlocking an LIRA may include low income, potential foreclosure, eviction from a rental, first month’s rent and security deposit, high medical or disability costs, shortened life expectancy, and permanent departure from Canada.



Unlocking 50% of an LIRA can be done one time if you are 55 or older in some provinces. Small balance unlocking is allowed if the balance is under a certain amount.



If you need to take money from an LIRA before it would normally be allowed, it’s best to consult a financial advisor who knows the rules that apply in your province, especially if the amount involved is substantial.




How Are Locked-in Retirement Accounts (LIRAs) Taxed?
The money in a locked-in retirement account (LIRA) continues to grow tax-deferred until it is withdrawn.




Where Can You Buy a Life Income Fund (LIF) or a Locked-in Retirement Income Fund (LRIF)?
Life income funds (LIFs) and/or locked-in retirement income funds (LRIFs) are available from banks, credit unions, trust companies, and insurance companies. The financial institution must be on the province’s approved list of institutions to accept transfers of locked-in funds.




What Is a Life Annuity?
A life annuity is an insurance contract that provides a guaranteed income for life, typically in return for a lump-sum payment.


   The Bottom Line  

A Locked-in Retirement Account (LIRA) can be used to hold money transferred out of an employer-sponsored retirement plan without losing its tax-deferred status. LIRAs are governed by provincial law and may be opened only under certain circumstances. At retirement, the account beneficiary can transfer the money to any of several types of accounts that will provide them with a regular income for life.
Definition of Log-Normal Distribution  

A log-normal distribution is a statistical distribution of logarithmic values from a related normal distribution. A log-normal distribution can be translated to a normal distribution and vice versa using associated logarithmic calculations.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Understanding Normal and Lognormal  

A normal distribution is a probability distribution of outcomes that are symmetrical or form a bell curve. In a normal distribution, 68% of the results fall within one standard deviation, and 95% fall within two standard deviations.



While most people are familiar with a normal distribution, they may not be as familiar with a log-normal distribution. A normal distribution can be converted to a log-normal distribution using logarithmic mathematics. That is primarily the basis as log-normal distributions can only come from a normally distributed set of random variables.



There can be a few reasons for using log-normal distributions in conjunction with normal distributions. In general, most log-normal distributions are the result of taking the natural log where the base is equal to e=2.718. However, the log-normal distribution can be scaled using a different base which affects the shape of the lognormal distribution.



Overall the log-normal distribution plots the log of random variables from a normal distribution curve. In general, the log is known as the exponent to which a base number must be raised in order to produce the random variable (x) that is found along a normally distributed curve.


   Applications and Uses of Log-Normal Distribution in Finance  

Normal distributions may present a few problems that log-normal distributions can solve. Mainly, normal distributions can allow for negative random variables while log-normal distributions include all positive variables.



One of the most common applications where log-normal distributions are used in finance is in the analysis of stock prices. The potential returns of a stock can be graphed in a normal distribution. The prices of the stock, however, can be graphed in a log-normal distribution. The log-normal distribution curve can therefore be used to help better identify the compound return that the stock can expect to achieve over a period of time.



Note that log-normal distributions are positively skewed with long right tails due to low mean values and high variances in the random variables.



Lognormal Distribution in Excel



Lognormal distribution can be done in Excel. It is found in the statistical functions as LOGNORM.DIST.



Excel defines it as the following:



LOGNORM.DIST (x,mean,standard_dev,cumulative)



Returns the lognormal distribution of x, where ln(x) is normally distributed with parameters mean and standard_dev.



To calculate LOGNORM.DIST in Excel you will need the following:



x = value at which to evaluate the function



Mean = the mean of ln(x)



Standard Deviation = the standard deviation of ln(x) which must be positive
What Is a Logarithmic Price Scale?  

A logarithmic price scale, also referred to as a "log scale", is a type of scale used on a chart that is plotted such that two equivalent price changes are represented by the same vertical distance on the scale.





Key Takeaways

Logarithmic price scales are a type of scale used on a chart, plotted such that two equivalent price changes are represented by the same vertical changes on the scale.They are generally used for the long-term perspective analysis of price changes.They differ from linear price scales because they display percentage points and not dollar price increases for a stock.


   Understanding Logarithmic Price Scales  

The distance between the numbers on the logarithmic price scale decreases as the price of the asset increases. After all, a $1.00 increase in price becomes less influential as the price moves higher since it corresponds to less of a percentage change. The alternative to a logarithmic price scale is known as a linear price scale.



Logarithmic price scales are generally accepted as the default setting for most charting services, and they're used by the majority of technical analysts and traders. Common percent changes are represented by an equal spacing between the numbers in the scale. For example, the distance between $10 and $20 is equal to the distance between $20 and $40 because both scenarios represent a 100% increase in price.



These charts differ from those using linear price scales, which look at dollars instead of percentage points. On those charts, the prices on the y-axis are equally spaced rather than becoming increasingly condensed as the asset price moves higher.



Logarithmic price scales tend to show less severe price increases or decreases than linear price scales. For example, if an asset price has collapsed from $100.00 to $10.00, the distance between each dollar would be very small on a linear price scale, making it impossible to see a big move from $15.00 to $10.00. Logarithmic price scales solve these problems by adjusting the prices based on the percent change. In other words, a significant percentage move will always correspond with a significant visual move on logarithmic price scales.



Linear price scales can be helpful when you're analyzing assets that aren't as volatile, since they can help you visualize how far the price must move to reach a buy or sell target. However, it's usually a good idea to view linear charts on a large screen to ensure that all of the prices are viewable.


   Logarithmic Price Scale Example  

The following chart shows an example of a logarithmic price scale for the NVIDIA Corp. (NVDA):












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In the above chart, you can see that the space between $20.00 and $40.00 is much wider than the space between $100.00 and $120.00, despite the absolute difference being $20.00 in both cases. This is because the difference between $20.00 and $40.00 is 100%, while the difference between $100.00 and $120.00 is just 20%.
What Are Logistics?  

Logistics refers to the overall process of managing how resources are acquired, stored, and transported to their final destination. Logistics management involves identifying prospective distributors and suppliers and determining their effectiveness and accessibility. Logistics managers are referred to as logisticians.



"Logistics" was initially a military-based term used in reference to how military personnel obtained, stored, and moved equipment and supplies. The term is now used widely in the business sector, particularly by companies in the manufacturing sectors, to refer to how resources are handled and moved along the supply chain.





Key Takeaways

Logistics is the overall process of managing how resources are acquired, stored, and transported to their final destination. Poor logistics in a business can impact its bottom line. Logistics is now used widely in the business sector, particularly by companies in the manufacturing sectors, to refer to how resources are handled and moved along the supply chain.


   Understanding Logistics in Management and Business  

In simple terms, the goal of logistics management is to have the right amount of a resource or input at the right time, getting it to the appropriate location in proper condition, and delivering it to the correct internal or external customer.



For example, in the natural gas industry, logistics involves managing the pipelines, trucks, storage facilities, and distribution centers that handle oil as it is transformed along the supply chain. An efficient supply chain and effective logistical procedures are essential to reduce costs and to maintain and increase efficiency. Poor logistics lead to untimely deliveries, failure to meet the needs of clientele, and ultimately cause the business to suffer.



The concept of business logistics has been transformed since the 1960s. The increasing intricacy of supplying companies with the materials and resources they need, along with the global expansion of supply chains, has led to a need for specialists known as supply chain logisticians.



In the modern era, the technology boom and the complexity of logistics processes have spawned logistics management software and specialized logistics-focused firms that expedite the movement of resources along the supply chain.






One reason large online retailers like Amazon have come to dominate the retail landscape is the overall innovation and efficiency of their logistics along every link of the supply chain.



Manufacturing companies may choose to outsource the management of their logistics to specialists or manage logistics internally if it is cost-effective to do so.


   Special Considerations  

The tasks for which a logistician is responsible vary depending on the business. Primary responsibilities include overseeing and managing inventory by arranging for appropriate transportation and adequate storage for the inventory.



A qualified logistician plans out the logistics process and coordinates the steps as inventory and resources move along the supply chain.



Specialized training in supply chain management and logistics often includes core or elective courses, or even discrete programs of study, in business education. A business degree that emphasizes these skills—or in some cases, a technical degree in systems analysis or database management—is usually necessary to begin what is often a well-paid career as a logistician.




What Is Logistics in Business?
In business, logistics is the process of transporting and storing raw materials, finished goods, inventory, and other resources. Logistics in a business is typically made up of many components, including customer service, demand forecasting, warehousing, material handling, inventory control, order processing, and transportation.




Why Is Logistics Important?
Logistics is critical to a company's bottom line. It enables the movement of materials or goods, the satisfaction of contracts, and the fulfillment of services. Effective logistics management ensures smooth movement along the supply chain and can provide a competitive advantage.




What Jobs Are Available in the Logistics Industry?
Careers in logistics can include truck driver, customer service representative, dispatcher, freight agent, supply chain manager, transportation analyst, procurement manager, logistician, and operations manager, among others. A degree in logistics or business administration will be helpful for many roles in logistics, including logistician, a career that is expected to grow much faster than average.


   The Bottom Line  

When a company optimizes its logistics, it improves efficiency along all points of the supply chain. Understanding how to get the right resource to the right place at the right time can be a differentiator for a business, adding value to the customer while at the same time cutting costs and boosting the bottom line.
What Was the London Interbank Bid Rate (LIBID)?  

The London Interbank Bid Rate (LIBID) was the average interest rate at which major London banks bid for eurocurrency deposits from other banks in the interbank market. It was the bid rate that banks were willing to pay for eurocurrency deposits and other banks' unsecured funds in the London interbank market, while the more popular LIBOR was the offered rate.



Eurocurrency deposits refer to money in the form of bank deposits of a currency outside that currency's issuing country. They may be of any currency in any country.



As a result of the LIBOR rate fixing scandals, LIBID was phased out along with LIBOR beginning in 2021.





Key Takeaways

LIBID was the London Interbank Bid Rate, the "bid" rate at which banks were willing to borrow eurocurrency deposits.The "offer" rate at which banks were willing to lend to each other was the more popular LIBOR.The most common currency deposited as eurocurrency was the U.S. dollar.Both LIBOR and LIBID were phased out beginning in 2021 due to rate-fixing scandals.


   Understanding the London Interbank Bid Rate (LIBID)  

The London Interbank Bid Rate (LIBID) was the other side of the more famous London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Whereas LIBOR was the "ask" rate at which a bank is willing to lend eurocurrency deposits to another bank, LIBID was the "bid" rate at which banks are willing to borrow.



The difference between the two is the bid-ask spread on these transactions. When LIBID was high, it meant that borrowers were seeking to borrow funds with increasing demand.



While LIBOR was a popular benchmark interest rate that was calculated and published by Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), LIBID was not standardized or publicly available. It was not used outside of the interbank lending market. The most common currency deposited as eurocurrency is the U.S. dollar. For example, if U.S. dollars are deposited in any bank outside the U.S.—for example, in Europe or the U.K.—then the deposit is referred to as a eurocurrency (eurodollars in this case).


   The Difference Between LIBID and LIBOR  

Both LIBID and LIBOR were reference rates set by banks in the London interbank market. The London interbank market is a wholesale money market in London where banks exchange currencies either directly or through electronic trading platforms.



Starting in the 1970s, LIBOR was the benchmark rate for interbank lending and is calculated for seven maturities for five currencies: the Swiss franc, the euro, the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the Japanese yen. Before LIBOR fell out of use, there were 35 different LIBOR rates released to the market every day.






LIBOR was phased out due to scandals and questions around its validity as a benchmark rate. Most LIBOR rates ceased publication on June 30, 2023, and were replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). As part of this phase-out, LIBOR one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates ceased publication on Dec. 31, 2021.


   How the LIBID Rate Was Used  

Until the rate-fixing scandal, both of these rates (especially LIBOR) were considered the foremost global reference rates for short-term interest rates of a variety of global financial instruments such as short-term interest futures contracts, forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, and currency options.



LIBOR was also a key driver in the eurodollar market and is the basis for retail products like mortgages and student loans. They were derived from a filtered average of the world's most creditworthy banks' interbank bid/ask rates for institutional loans with maturities that range between overnight and one year.



The London Interbank Mean Rate (LIMEAN) is the calculated average between LIBOR and LIBID and could be used to identify the spread between the two rates. LIMEAN was also used by institutions borrowing and lending money in the interbank market (rather than using LIBOR or LIBID) and it was a reliable reference to the mid-market rate of the interbank market.




Are LIBID and LIBOR Still Used?
The last LIBOR rate was published on June 30, 2023. After that date, contracts that referenced LIBOR switched to a different reference rate, such as SOFR. However, U.K. regulators required the continued publication of synthetic U.S. Dollar LIBOR for at least 15 months after that date.




Why Were LIBID and LIBOR Phased Out?
The London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) and Bid Rate (LIBID) were reference rates that were used to measure the cost of lending and borrowing money between British banks. However, the validity of LIBOR was questioned in the 2012 rate-fixing scandal, when it was discovered that some bankers were colluding to manipulate the reference rate. The two rates were slowly phased out starting in 2021; the final LIBOR was published in 2023.




What Is Replacing LIBOR and LIBID?
As a reference rate, LIBOR was replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). However, a synthetic U.S. Dollar LIBOR is still being published in order to aid the transition.


   The Bottom Line  

LIBID was an interbank reference rate used to measure the cost of borrowing money between different banks. Along with LIBOR, it was frequently used in variable-rate mortgages and contracts to measure the changing costs of borrowing money. LIBID and LIBOR were phased out in 2021 and replaced by the Secure Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR).
What Is the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)?  

The London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was a benchmark interest rate at which major global banks lent to one another in the international interbank market for short-term loans.



LIBOR served as a globally accepted key benchmark interest rate that indicated borrowing costs between banks. The rate was calculated and published each day by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), but scandals and questions around its validity as a benchmark rate resulted in it being phased out.



According to the Federal Reserve and regulators in the U.K., LIBOR was phased out on June 30, 2023, and replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). LIBOR one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates stopped publishing as of Dec. 31, 2021 as a part of the phase out.





Key Takeaways

LIBOR was the benchmark interest rate at which major global banks lend to one another.LIBOR was administered by the Intercontinental Exchange, which asks major global banks how much they would charge other banks for short-term loans.The rate was calculated using the Waterfall Methodology, a standardized, transaction-based, data-driven, layered method.LIBOR has been subject to manipulation, scandal, and methodological critique, making it less credible today as a benchmark rate.LIBOR has been replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) on June 30, 2023.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding LIBOR  

LIBOR was the average interest rate at which major global banks borrow from one another. It was based on five currencies including the U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, and the Swiss franc, and served seven different maturities—overnight/spot next, one week, and one, two, three, six, and 12 months. Currently, only the overnight, one-, three-, six-, and 12-month USD LIBOR rates and the three-month GBP LIBOR rate are published.



The combination of five currencies and seven maturities led to a total of 35 different LIBOR rates calculated and reported each business day. The most commonly quoted rate is the three-month U.S. dollar rate, usually referred to as the current LIBOR rate.



Each day, ICE asks major global banks how much they would charge other banks for short-term loans. The association takes out the highest and lowest figures, then calculates the average from the remaining numbers. This is known as the trimmed average. This rate was posted each morning as the daily rate, so it's not a static figure. Once the rates for each maturity and currency are calculated and finalized, they are announced and published once a day at around 11:55 a.m. London time by the ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA).



LIBOR was also the basis for consumer loans in countries around the world, so it impacts consumers just as much as it does financial institutions. The interest rates on various credit products such as credit cards, car loans, and adjustable-rate mortgages fluctuate based on the interbank rate. This change in rate helps determine the ease of borrowing between banks and consumers.



But there was a downside to using the LIBOR rate. Even though lower borrowing costs may be attractive to consumers, it does also affect the returns on certain securities. Some mutual funds may be attached to LIBOR, so their yields may drop as LIBOR fluctuates.


   How Is LIBOR Calculated?  

The IBA has constituted a designated panel of global banks for each currency and tenor pair. For example, 16 major banks, including Bank of America, Barclays, Citibank, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase, and UBS constitute the panel for U.S. dollar LIBOR. Only those banks that have a significant role in the London market are considered eligible for membership on the ICE LIBOR panel, and the selection process is held annually.



In April 2018, the IBA submitted a new proposal to strengthen the LIBOR calculation methodology. It suggested using a standardized, transaction-based, data-driven, layered method called the Waterfall Methodology for determining LIBOR.



The first transaction-based level involves taking a volume-weighted average price (VWAP) of all eligible transactions a panel bank may have assigned a higher weighting for transactions booked closer to 11:00 a.m. London time.
The second transaction-derived level involved taking submissions based on transaction-derived data from a panel bank if it does not have a sufficient number of eligible transactions to make a Level 1 submission.
The third level—expert judgment—comes into play when a panel bank fails to make a Level 1 or a Level 2 submission. It submits the rate at which it could finance itself at 11:00 a.m. London time, with reference to the unsecured, wholesale funding market.






The Waterfall Methodology retains the trimmed average calculation.



The IBA calculates the LIBOR rate using a trimmed mean approach applied to all the responses received. Trimmed mean is a method of averaging, which eliminates a small specified percentage of the largest and smallest values before calculating the mean. For LIBOR, figures in the highest and lowest quartile are thrown out, and averaging is performed on the remaining numbers.


   Uses of LIBOR  

LIBOR is used worldwide in a wide variety of financial products. They include the following:



Standard interbank products like forward rate agreements (FRA), interest rate swaps, interest rate futures, options, and swaptions, whereby options provide buyers with the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a security or interest rate product
Commercial products like floating rate certificates of deposit and notes, variable rate mortgages, and syndicated loans, which are loans offered by a group of lenders
Hybrid products like collateralized debt obligations (CDO), collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO), and a wide variety of accrual notes, callable notes, and perpetual notes
Consumer loan-related products like individual mortgages and student loans



LIBOR is also used as a standard gauge of market expectations for interest rates finalized by central banks. It accounts for the liquidity premiums for various instruments traded in the money markets, as well as an indicator of the health of the overall banking system.



A lot of derivative products are created, launched, and traded in reference to LIBOR. LIBOR is also used as a reference rate for other standard processes like clearing, price discovery, and product valuation.


   A Brief History of LIBOR  

The need for a uniform measure of interest rates across financial institutions became necessary as the market for interest rate-based products began evolving during the 1980s. The British Bankers’ Association (BBA)—which represented the banking and financial services industry—set up BBA interest-settlement rates in 1984.



Further streamlining led to the evolution of BBA LIBOR in 1986, which became the default standard interest rate for transacting in the interest rate- and currency-based financial dealings between financial institutions at the local and international levels.



Since then, LIBOR has undergone many changes. The major one is when BBA LIBOR changed to ICE LIBOR in Feb. 2014 after the Intercontinental Exchange took over the administration.



Currencies involved in calculating LIBOR have also changed. While new currency rates have been added, many have been removed or integrated following the introduction of the euro rates. The 2008 financial crisis saw a significant decline in the number of tenors for which LIBOR was calculated.


   Alternatives to LIBOR  

Though LIBOR was once accepted globally, there are several other interest rates that are popularly followed across the globe.



For instance, Europe has the European Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), Japan has the Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR), China has Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate (SHIBOR), and India has the Mumbai Interbank Offered Rate (MIBOR).


   LIBOR Scandal of Rate Rigging  

While LIBOR has been a long-established global benchmark standard for interest rates, it has had its fair share of controversies including a major scandal of rate rigging.



Major banks allegedly colluded to manipulate the LIBOR rates. They took traders' requests into account and submitted artificially low LIBOR rates to keep them at their preferred levels. The intention behind the alleged malpractice was to bump up traders’ profits who were holding positions in LIBOR-based financial securities.



Following reporting by the Wall Street Journal in 2008, major global banks, which were on the panels and contributed to the LIBOR determination process, faced regulatory scrutiny. It involved investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice. Similar investigations were launched in other parts of the globe including in the U.K. and Europe.



Major banks and financial institutions including Barclays, ICAP, Rabobank, Royal Bank of Scotland, UBS, and Deutsche Bank faced heavy fines. Punitive actions were also taken against their employees who were found to be involved in the malpractice. The scandal was also one of the primary reasons why LIBOR shifted from BBA administration to ICE.


   Benefits of Watching LIBOR Rates  

Despite the rate-setting scandals, LIBOR rates provide a useful benchmark for the level of activity in the global economy. A falling LIBOR indicates that it is becoming easier to borrow money, possibly forecasting an increase in economic activity. A rising LIBOR means that it is getting harder to borrow money, meaning business activity is likely to slow down.



These rates are particularly significant to a prospective borrower. When you borrow money from a bank, LIBOR rates may account for part of your interest rate. A high LIBOR means that you may have to pay a higher interest rate on your mortgage or personal loan, while a low LIBOR means a more favorable rate.


   Special Considerations: Phasing Out LIBOR  

Although LIBOR has been used since the 1980s, regulatory reforms have begun in recent years to reform benchmark rates and ultimately replace LIBOR as the interbank borrowing rate. U.K. banks are no longer required to publish LIBOR rates after 2021.



The new system is designed to replace the conjecture surrounding interest rates that was predominant under LIBOR and instead use actual transaction rates. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) will replace LIBOR in 2023.



The SOFR is also a benchmark interest rate used for dollar-denominated loans and derivative contracts. SOFR is different from LIBOR in that it's based on actual observed transactions in the U.S. Treasury market while LIBOR used estimations of borrowing rates.



However, SOFR is likely to be used in the U.S. and the U.K. but other countries are exploring using their own version of a benchmark rate for when LIBOR is phased out.


   Examples of LIBOR-Based Products and Transactions  

The most straightforward example of a LIBOR-based transaction is a floating rate bond, which pays an annual interest based on LIBOR, say at LIBOR + 0.5%. As the value of LIBOR changes, the interest payment will change.



LIBOR also applies to interest rate swaps—contractual agreements between two parties to exchange interest payments at a specified time. Assume Paul owns a $1 million investment that pays him a variable LIBOR-based interest rate equal to LIBOR + 1% each quarter. Since his earnings are subject to LIBOR values and are variable in nature, he wants to switch to fixed-rate interest payments.



Then there is Peter, who has a similar $1 million investment, which pays him a fixed interest of 1.5% per quarter. He wishes to get a variable earning, as it may occasionally give him higher payments.



Both Paul and Peter can enter into a swap agreement, exchanging their respective interest receipts. Paul will receive the fixed 1.5% interest over his $1 million investment from Peter, which equals $15,000 while Peter receives LIBOR + 1% variable interest from Paul.



If LIBOR is 1%, then Peter will receive 2% or $20,000 from Paul. Since this figure is higher than what he owes to Paul, in net terms, Peter will get $5,000 ($20,000 - $15,000) from Paul. By next quarter, if LIBOR comes down to 0.25%, Peter will be eligible to receive 1.25% or $12,500 from Paul. In net terms, Paul will get $2,500 ($15,000 - $12,500) from Peter.



Such swaps essentially fulfill the requirement of both the transacting parties who wanted to change the type of interest receipts (fixed and floating).




Is LIBOR Reliable?
While LIBOR was once a trusted benchmark for global interest rates, the 2012 rate-rigging scandal raised many questions about its objectivity. Many financial institutions are phasing out LIBOR in favor of other benchmarks, such as SOFR.




What Is Replacing LIBOR?
There are several alternative indexes that have been proposed to replace the USD LIBOR. One of them, Ameribor, reflects the average borrowing costs for thousands of banks and financial institutions in the United States. Another is the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), based on the Treasury repo rate. In 2022, the U.S. Congress passed legislation to make SOFR the official replacement for LIBOR in the United States.




What Is the Difference Between LIBOR and SOFR?
The primary difference between LIBOR and SOFR is the method by which the rates are generated. LIBOR uses the panel bank calculation, which are inputs from panel banks to come up with the average rate. SOFR is the measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight that is collateralized by U.S. Treasuries in the repo market.


   The Bottom Line  

LIBOR, or the London Interbank Offered Rate, was a global benchmark that represented the interest rates on short-term loans from one bank to another; however, the index fell under suspicion in 2012, when some bankers were discovered manipulating the index for their own benefit. Most countries have since phased out LIBOR, and the United States is soon to follow suit.
What Is the London Metal Exchange (LME)?  

The London Metal Exchange (LME) is a commodities exchange that deals in metals futures and options. It is the largest exchange for options and futures contracts for base metals, which include aluminum, zinc, lead, copper, and nickel. The exchange also facilitates trading of precious metals like gold and silver.



The LME is located in London, England, but has been owned by Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing since 2012. The prices discovered on the LME are considered the standard global prices for base metals.





Key Takeaways

The London Metal Exchange (LME) is one of the largest commodities exchanges in the world.Futures and options contracts on metals such as gold, silver, zinc, and copper are listed for trading on the LME.Hedgers and speculators are active on the metals exchange, with hedgers turning to futures and options to mitigate risk and speculators seeking to make short-term profits by taking on risk.The LME is the only remaining physical commodities trading market in Europe, as the trend has been moving steadily to electronic trading and away from open outcry.


   Understanding the London Metal Exchange (LME)  

The LME is one of the main commodities markets in the world and allows for the trading of metals options and futures contracts. It also lists futures contracts on its London Metal Exchange Index (LMEX), which is an index that tracks the prices of the metals that trade on the exchange.



Options and futures contracts on the LME are standardized with respect to expiration dates and size. Expiration dates are structured so that traders can choose from daily, weekly, and monthly contracts. Meanwhile, contracts are traded in sizes called lots, which vary from 1 to 65 metric tons in weight. Lot size will vary depending on the metal.



Market participants on the LME are typically looking to hedge risk or seeking to take on risk. A hedger might be a producer or consumer and seek a position in a future or options contract to protect from future price moves in the metals market. On the other hand, traders and speculators buy or sell metals futures or options to profit from short-term price moves.


   History of the LME  

The London Metal Exchange can be traced back as far as the opening of the Royal Exchange in London in 1571, where traders in metal and a range of other commodities began to meet. As Britain became a major exporter of metals, European merchants began to arrive to join in these activities.



According to the LME's website, the origin of the "ring" tradition began in the early 18th century in the Jerusalem Coffee House. Here, a merchant with metal to sell would draw a circle in the sawdust on the floor and call out "change!" All those wishing to trade would assemble around the circle and make their bids and offers.



In 2012, the LME was acquired by the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing. Consolidation has become a common trend among the world's exchanges as they battle to reduce costs and boost their survival prospects in a highly competitive sector. For example, the CME Group acquired the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) in 2008. NYMEX, in turn, had merged with the Comex commodities exchange in 1994, creating the largest physical commodity exchange at the time.


   Trading Metals on the LME  

The LME has three methods of trading metals: open outcry, through the LME Select electronic trading platform, or by telephone systems. The nature of commodity exchanges is changing rapidly. The trend is moving in the direction of electronic trading and away from traditional open outcry trading, where traders meet face-to-face or in trading pits.



In 2016, CME Group closed the NYMEX commodities trading floor. NYMEX was the last of its kind, but the bulk of its energy and metals volumes had shifted to computers. In a similar move a year earlier, the CME shut down a commodity trading floor in Chicago and ended a 167-year-old tradition of face-to-face trading in favor of electronic trading.



It is unclear how long the LME will be able to maintain its physical open outcry trading model. It is the only physical commodity exchange in Europe remaining. However, the rapid advancement and acceptance of electronic trading are not working in favor of the open outcry model.


   LME and Ring Trading  

"Ring trading" is the method by which certain types of investment business are conducted.



On the LME, trading activity occurs in five-minute intervals known as "rings" within a six-meter diameter circle (a particular type of trading pit). The pit contains two large display boards that show current prices. Each of the ring-dealing members has a fixed seat within the ring, behind which an assistant is permitted to stand to pass orders to the ring dealing member and to liaise with customers regarding market conditions.



Ring sessions are divided by trading instruments. For example, steel trading takes place during the first session from 11:40 am to 11:45 am and in the second session 1:10 pm to 1:15 pm GMT. Trading occurs in five-minute intervals in the following order: steel, aluminum alloy, tin, premium aluminum, copper, lead, zinc, nickel, and cobalt.



Ring trading at the LME occurs between 11:40 am and 5:00 pm, however, inter-office telephone trading is available 24 hours a day. Check the LME's website for a detailed schedule.


   Example of LME  

An investor looking to trade on the LME has three options: via the LME's electronic portal, LMEselect, the Ring, or on the 24-hour telephone market. Investors must conduct their trading through an LME member. Information on how to become a member as well as a list of LME-certified members is available on the exchange's website.



Once you have selected a method and member through which you will conduct your trading, the next step is deciding which type of contract and for what metal you're looking to purchase. The LME offers six contracts for its fourteen underlying metals: futures, options, TAPOs, Monthly Average Futures, LMEminis, and the exchange's index product, LMEX. 



Once you have decided what and how you want to trade, simply log into your brokerage account and you're ready to go.




What Are LME Warehouse and Stock Reports?
The LME regularly publishes a number of reports on its website which include opening and closing stocks, stock movements, wait times, and canceled and live warrants across locations and metals. Check the LME's website for the latest warehouse and stock reports.




How Do LME Warrants Work?
LME warrants are documents that represent an entitlement to a specific lot of LME-approved metal. These documents also serve as a form of insurance for owners. On March 1, 2021, the LME switched to digital-only warrants.




What Is the LME Official Settlement Price?
The LME Official Settlement Price is the last cash offer price at which all LME futures are settled. The daily official settlement price is published between 12:30 and 1:25 GMT.


   The Bottom Line  

While the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) Group and the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) are two of the best-known commodity exchanges in the U.S., the LME is the only remaining physical commodity exchange left in Europe. Like many other industries, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused the LME some difficulties. However, with a history dating back to 1571, commodity traders can rest assured that the exchange will adapt as necessary to provide investors with its services.
What Is the London Stock Exchange (LSE)?  

The London Stock Exchange (LSE) is the primary stock exchange in the United Kingdom and its largest. Originating more than 300 years ago, the regional exchanges were merged in 1973 to form the Stock Exchange of Great Britain and Ireland, later renamed the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 100 Share Index, or "Footsie", is the dominant index, containing 100 of the top blue-chip stocks on the LSE.



The stock exchange is physically located in the city of London. In 2007, the London Stock Exchange merged with the Milan Stock Exchange, the Borsa Italiana, to form the London Stock Exchange Group.





Key Takeaways

The London Stock Exchange (LSE) is one of the oldest stock exchanges in the world, the largest in Europe, and the primary stock exchange of the United Kingdom.The London Stock Exchange (LSE) rivals the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in terms of market capitalization, trade volume, access to capital, and trade liquidity.The "Big Bang" refers to the government's deregulation of the London stock market on Oct. 27, 1986, an event that led to a modernized electronic trading system and opened up the LSE to capital markets worldwide.


   Understanding the London Stock Exchange (LSE)  

London has long been one of the world's leading financial cities, well-known as a hub for international trade, banking, and insurance. The history of the London Stock Exchange (LSE) goes back to 1698 when broker John Castaing began posting the prices of stocks and commodities at Jonathan's Coffee House, which was a popular meeting place for businessmen to conduct trades. Castaing called his price list "The Course of the Exchange and Other Things."



By 1801 it became clear that a formal system was needed to deter fraud and unscrupulous traders. Brokers agreed to a set of rules and paid a membership fee to belong to the exchange, thus paving the way for the first regulated stock exchange in London.



Through its primary markets, the London Stock Exchange (LSE) provides cost-efficient access to some of the world’s deepest and most liquid pools of capital. It is home to a wide range of companies and provides electronic equities trading for listed companies.



The LSE is the most international of all stock exchanges with thousands of companies from more than 60 countries, and it is the premier source of equity-market liquidity, benchmark prices, and market data in Europe. Linked by partnerships to international exchanges in Asia and Africa, the LSE intends to remove cost and regulatory barriers from capital markets worldwide.


   The LSE and the Big Bang  

On Oct. 27, 1986, the U.K. government deregulated the London stock market. Known as the "Big Bang" because of the massive changes that immediately ensued, deregulation introduced electronic trading to the London Stock Exchange, which replaced traditional open outcry trading. The new system was efficient and faster, allowing trading volumes to increase and enabling the LSE to successfully rival other global exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).



The Big Bang was part of the government's reform program to eliminate overregulation and encourage free-market competition. It introduced other significant changes to the structure of the financial markets. These include the elimination of minimum fixed commissions on trades and the removal of the separation between companies that traded stocks and those that advised investors.



These changes increased competition among brokerage companies and led to a series of mergers and acquisitions. Another Big Bang change allowed foreign ownership of U.K. brokers, which opened London's market to international banks.


   The Main Market  

The Main Market of the London Stock Exchange is one of the world's most diverse stock markets with companies making up 40 different sectors. A listing on the LSE's Main Market gives companies access to real-time pricing; deep pools of capital; benchmarking through the FTSE UK Index Series; and significant levels of media coverage, research, and announcements.



There are a number of different ways for companies to join the Main Market, including the following:


  Premium  

The Premium segment applies only to equity shares issued by commercial trading companies. Premium listing issuers are required to meet the UK’s super-equivalent rules. These companies may have access to a lower cost of capital and to investors who seek out companies that adhere to the highest standards. A company with a Premium listing also has the possibility of being included in one of the FTSE indices.


  Standard  

The Standard segment is open to the issuing of equity shares, Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs), debt securities, and derivatives that must comply with minimum requirements. The overall compliance burden is lighter for companies with a Standard listing. A Standard listing helps companies from emerging markets attract investments from London's large pool of available capital.


  Specialist  

The Specialist Fund Segment is designed specifically for high growth, revenue-generating businesses, and highly specialized investment entities that target institutional investors or professionally advised investors, respectively. This segment is for companies that are not eligible for a Premium or Standard listing but are seeking funding to grow their companies.




What Companies Does the London Stock Exchange Group Own?
Apart from the London Stock Exchange (LSE) itself, the LSEG also owns FTSE Russell, Refinitiv, and LCH Clearing.




When Was the London Stock Exchange Established?
The LSE was formed in 1801 as London's first regulated exchange.




What Are the Top Companies on the London Exchange?
The largest companies by market cap listed on the LSE as of June 21, 2023, are:AstraZeneca PLCShell PLCHSBC Holding PLCUnilever PLCBP PLC


   The Bottom Line  

The London Stock Exchange (LSE) is the main stock exchange in the United Kingdom and one of the largest stock exchanges in the world. It has a long history dating back to the 1600s and has evolved over the course of its existence. The exchange lists many of the largest companies in the world, such as Shell, HSBC, and BP.
What Is a Long Hedge?  

A long hedge refers to a futures position that is entered into for the purpose of price stability on a purchase. Long hedges are often used by manufacturers and processors to remove price volatility from the purchase of required inputs. These input-dependent companies know they will require materials several times a year, so they enter futures positions to stabilize the purchase price throughout the year.



For this reason, a long hedge may also be referred to as an input hedge, a buyers hedge, a buy hedge, a purchasers hedge, or a purchasing hedge.


   Understanding Long Hedges  

A long hedge represents a smart cost control strategy for a company that knows it needs to purchase a commodity in the future and wants to lock in the purchase price. The hedge itself is quite simple, with the purchaser of a commodity simply entering a long futures position. A long position means the buyer of the commodity is making a bet that the price of the commodity will rise in the future. If the good rises in price, the profit from the futures position helps to offset the greater cost of the commodity.


   Example of a Long Hedge  

In a simplified example, we might assume that it is January, and an aluminum manufacturer needs 25,000 pounds of copper to manufacture aluminum and fulfill a contract in May. The current spot price is $2.50 per pound, but the May futures price is $2.40 per pound. In January the aluminum manufacturer would take a long position in a May futures contract on copper.



This futures contract can be sized to cover part or all of the expected order. Sizing the position sets the hedge ratio. For example, if the purchaser hedges half the purchase order size, then the hedge ratio is 50%. If the May spot price of copper is over $2.40 per pound, then the manufacturer has benefited from taking a long position. This is because the overall profit from the futures contract helps offset the higher purchasing cost paid for copper in May.



If the May spot price of copper is below $2.40 per pound, the manufacturer takes a small loss on the futures position while saving overall, thanks to a lower-than-anticipated purchasing price.


   Long Hedges vs. Short Hedges  

Basis risk makes it very difficult to offset all pricing risk, but a high hedge ratio on a long hedge will remove a lot of it. The opposite of a long hedge is a short hedge, which protects the seller of a commodity or asset by locking in the sale price.



Hedges, both long and short, can be thought of as a form of insurance. There is a cost to setting them up, but they can save a company a large amount in an adverse situation.
What Is a Long Jelly Roll?  

A long jelly roll is an option strategy that aims to profit from a form of arbitrage based on option pricing. It looks for a difference between the pricing of a horizontal spread (also called a calendar spread) composed of call options at a given strike price and the same horizontal spread with the same strike price composed of put options.





Key Takeaways

A long jelly roll is an option spread-trading strategy that exploits price differences in horizontal spreads.Long jelly rolls include buying a long calendar call spread and selling a short calendar put spread.The two spreads in a long jelly roll are usually priced so close together that there is not enough profit to be made to justify implementing it.


   Understanding Long Jelly Rolls  

A long jelly roll is a complex spread strategy that positions the spread as neutral, fully hedged, in relation to the directional movement of the share price so that the trade can instead profit from the difference in the purchase price of those spreads.



This is possible because horizontal spreads made up of call options should be priced the same as a horizontal spread made up of put options, with the exception that the put option should have the dividend payout and interest cost subtracted from the price. So the price of the call spread should typically be a bit higher than the price of the put spread—how much higher depends on whether a dividend payout will occur before expiration.



A jelly roll is created from the combination of two horizontal spreads. The spread can be constructed as a long spread, meaning the call spread was bought and the put spread was sold, or as a short spread, where the put spread is bought and the call spread is sold. The strategy calls for buying the cheaper spread and selling the longer spread. In theory, the profit comes when the trader gets to keep the difference between the two spreads.



Variations of this strategy can be approached by implementing a variety of modifications including increasing the number of long positions on one or both of the horizontal spreads. The strike prices can also be varied for each of the two spreads, but any such modification creates additional risks to the trade.



For retail traders, the transaction costs would likely make this trade unprofitable, since the price difference is rarely more than a few cents. But occasionally a few exceptions may occur making an easy profit possible for the astute trader.


   Long Jelly Roll Construction  

Consider the following example of when a trader would want to construct a long jelly roll spread. Suppose that on Jan. 8 during normal market hours, Amazon stock shares (AMZN) were trading around $1,700.00 per share. Suppose also the following Jan. 15-Jan. 22 call and put spreads (with weekly expiration dates) were available to retail buyers for the $1700 strike price:



Spread 1: Jan. 15 call (short) / Jan. 22 call (long); price = 9.75



Spread 2: Jan. 15 put (short) / Jan. 22 put (long); price = 10.75



If a trader is able to buy Spread 1 and Spread 2 at these prices, then they can lock in a profit because they have effectively purchased a long position in the stock at 9.75 and a short position in the stock at 10.75. This happens because the long call and the short put position create a synthetic stock position that acts very much like holding shares. Conversely, the remaining short call position and long put position create a synthetic short stock position.



Now the net effect becomes clear because it can be shown that the trader initiated a calendar trade with the ability to enter the stock at $1,700 and exit the stock at $1,700. The positions cancel each other out leaving the only difference between the option spread prices to be a concern that matters.



If the call horizontal spread can actually be acquired for one dollar less than the put option, then the trader can lock in $1 per share per contract. So a 10 contract position would net $1,000.


   Short Jelly Roll Construction  

In the short jelly roll, the trader uses a short call horizontal spread with a long put horizontal spread—the opposite of the long construction. The spreads are constructed with the same horizontal spread methodology but the trader is looking for the call spread pricing to be much lower than the put spread. If such a price mismatch were to occur that is not explained by upcoming dividend payments or interest costs, then the trade would be desirable.
What Is a Long Position?  

The term long position describes what an investor has purchased when they buy a security or derivative with the expectation that it will rise in value.





Key Takeaways

A long—or a long position—refers to the purchase of an asset with the expectation it will increase in value—a bullish attitude.A long position in options contracts indicates the holder owns the underlying asset.A long position is the opposite of a short position.In options, being long can refer either to outright ownership of an asset or being the holder of an option on the asset.Being long on a stock or bond investment is a measurement of time.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding a Long Position  

Investors can establish long positions in securities such as stocks, mutual funds, or currencies, or even in derivatives such as options and futures. Holding a long position is a bullish view. A long position is the opposite of a short position (also known simply as "short").



The term long position is often used In the context of buying an options contract. The trader can hold either a long call or a long put option, depending on the outlook for the underlying asset of the option contract.



For example, an investor who hopes to benefit from an upward price movement in an asset will "go long" on a call option. The call gives the holder the option to buy the underlying asset at a certain price. Conversely, an investor who expects an asset’s price to fall will be long on a put option—and maintain the right to sell the asset at a certain price.


   Types of Long Positions  

In reality, long is an investing term that can have multiple meanings depending on in what context it is used. The most common meaning of long refers to the length of time an investment is held. However, the term long has a different meaning when used in options and futures contracts.


  Long Position Holding an Investment  

Going long on a stock or bond is the more conventional investing practice in the capital markets, especially for retail investors. With a long-position investment, the investor purchases an asset and owns it with the expectation that the price is going to rise. This investor normally has no plan to sell the security in the near future. In reference to holding equities, which have an inherent bias to rise, long can refer to a measurement of time as well as bullish intent.



An expectation that assets will appreciate in value in the long run—the buy and hold strategy—spares the investor the need for constant market-watching or market-timing, and allows time to weather the inevitable ups and downs. Plus, history is on one's side, as the stock market inevitably appreciates over time.



Of course, that doesn't mean there can't be sharp, portfolio-decimating drops along the way which can be disastrous if one occurs right before an investor was planning to retire—or needed to liquidate holdings for some reason. A prolonged bear market can also be troublesome, as it often favors short-sellers and those betting on declines.



Finally, going long in the outright-ownership sense means a good amount of capital is tied up, which could result in missing out on other opportunities.


  Long Position Options Contracts  

In terms of options contracts, a long position is one that benefits from a rise in the price of the underlying security. These include being long calls or short puts.



When a trader buys or holds a call options contract from an options writer, they are long, due to the power they hold in being able to buy the asset. An investor who is long a call option is one who buys a call with the expectation that the underlying security will increase in value. The long position call holder believes the asset's value is rising and may decide to exercise their option to buy it by the expiration date.



But not every trader who holds a long position believes the asset's value will increase. The trader who owns the underlying asset in their portfolio and believes the value will fall can buy a put option contract. They still have a long position because they have the ability to sell the underlying asset they hold in their portfolio. The holder of a long put option believes the price of an asset will fall. They hold the option with the hope that they will be able to sell the underlying asset at an advantageous price by the expiry.



So, as you can see, the long position on an options contract can express either a bullish or bearish sentiment depending on whether the long contract is a put or a call.



In contrast, the short position on an options contract does not own the stock or other underlying asset but borrows it with the expectation of selling it and then repurchasing it at a lower price.






  Long Futures Contracts  

Investors and businesses can also enter into a long forward or futures contract to hedge against adverse price movements. A company can employ a long hedge to lock in a purchase price for a commodity that is needed in the future. Futures differ from options in that the holder is obligated to buy or sell the underlying asset. They do not get to choose but must complete these actions.



Suppose a jewelry manufacturer believes the price of gold is poised to turn upwards in the short term. The firm can enter into a long futures contract with its gold supplier to purchase gold in three months from the supplier at $1,300. In three months, whether the price is above or below $1,300, the business that has a long position on gold futures is obligated to purchase the gold from the supplier at the agreed contract price of $1,300. The supplier, in turn, is obligated to deliver the physical commodity when the contract expires.



Speculators also go long on futures when they believe the prices will go up. They don’t necessarily want the physical commodity, as they are only interested in capitalizing on the price movement. Before expiry, a speculator holding a long futures contract can sell the contract in the market.


   Pros and Cons of a Long Position  



Pros

Locks in a price
Limits losses
Dovetails with historic market performance



Cons

Suffers in abrupt price changes/short-term moves
May expire before advantage is realized





   Example of a Long Position  

For example, let's say Jim expects Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) to increase in price and purchases 100 shares of it for his portfolio. Jim is therefore said to "be long" 100 shares of MSFT.



Now, let's consider a Nov. 17 call option on Microsoft (MSFT) with a $75 strike price and $1.30 premium. If Jim is still bullish on the stock, he may decide to purchase or go long one MSFT call option—one option equates to 100 shares—instead of purchasing the shares outright as he did in the previous example.



At expiry, if MSFT is trading above the strike price plus the premium paid ($75 + $1.30), Jim will exercise his right to buy on his long option to purchase 100 shares of MSFT at $75. The writer of the options contract—the short position—that Jim bought must sell him the 100 shares at the $75 price.



Taking a long position does not always mean that an investor expects to gain from an upward movement in the price of the asset or security. In the case of a put option, a downward trajectory in the price of the security is profitable for the investor.



Let's say another investor, Jane currently has a long position in MSFT for 100 shares in her portfolio but is now bearish on it. She takes a long position on one put option. The put option is trading for $2.15 and has a strike price of $75 set to expire on Nov. 17.



At the time of expiry, if MSFT drops below the strike price minus the premium paid ($75 - $2.15), Jane will exercise the long put option to sell her 100 MSFT shares for the strike price of $75. In this case, the option writer must buy Jane's shares at the agreed-upon $75 price, even if the shares are trading at less on the open market.




Where Can a Long Position Be Used?
Investors can establish long positions in securities such as stocks, mutual funds, or any other asset or security. In reality, long is an investing term that can have multiple meanings depending on in what context it is used. Holding a long position is a bullish view in most instances with the exception of put options.




How is a Long Different from a Short?
A short position is the opposite of a long position, in that it profits when the prices of securities go down.
What Is a Long Put?  

A long put refers to buying a put option, typically in anticipation of a decline in the underlying asset. The term "long" here has nothing to do with the length of time before expiration but rather refers to the trader's action of having bought the option with the hope of selling it at a higher price at a later point in time.



A trader could buy a put for speculative reasons, betting that the underlying asset will fall which increases the value of the long put option. A long put could also be used to hedge a long position in the underlying asset. If the underlying asset falls, the put option increases in value helping to offset the loss in the underlying.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019





Key Takeaways

A long put is a position when somebody buys a put option. It is in and of itself, however, a bearish position in the market.Investors go long put options if they think a security's price will fall.Investors may go long put options to speculate on price drops or to hedge a portfolio against downside losses.Downside risk is thus limited using a long put options strategy.


   Understanding a Long Put  

A long put has a strike price, which is the price at which the put buyer has the right to sell the underlying asset. Assume the underlying asset is a stock and the option’s strike price is $50. That means the put option entitles that trader to sell the stock at $50, even if the stock drops to $20, for example. On the other hand, if the stock rises and remains above $50, the option is worthless because it is not useful to sell at $50 when the stock is trading at $60 and can be sold there (without the use of an option).



If a trader wishes to utilize their right to sell the underlying at the strike price, they will exercise the option. Exercising is not required. Instead, the trader can simply exit the option at any time prior to expiration by selling it.



A long put option may be exercised before the expiration if it’s an American option whereas European options can only be exercised at the expiration date. If the option is exercised early or expires in the money, the option holder would be short the underlying asset. 


   Long Put Strategy vs. Shorting Stock  

A long put may be a favorable strategy for bearish investors, rather than shorting shares. A short stock position theoretically has unlimited risk since the stock price has no capped upside. A short stock position also has limited profit potential, since a stock cannot fall below $0 per share. A long put option is similar to a short stock position because the profit potentials are limited. A put option will only increase in value up to the underlying stock reaching zero. The benefit of the put option is that risk is limited to the premium paid for the option.



The drawback to the put option is that the price of the underlying must fall before the expiration date of the option, otherwise, the amount paid for the option is lost.



To profit from a short stock trade a trader sells a stock at a certain price hoping to be able to buy it back at a lower price. Put options are similar in that if the underlying stock falls then the put option will increase in value and can be sold for a profit. If the option is exercised, it will put the trader short in the underlying stock, and the trader will then need to buy the underlying stock to realize the profit from the trade. 


   Long Put Options to Hedge  

A long put option could also be used to hedge against unfavorable moves in a long stock position. This hedging strategy is known as a protective put or married put.



For example, assume an investor is long 100 shares of Bank of America Corporation (BAC) at $25 per share. The investor is long-term bullish on the stock, but fears that the stock may fall over the next month. Therefore, the investor purchases one put option with a strike price of $20 for $0.10 (multiplied by 100 shares since each put option represents 100 shares), which expires in one month.



The investor's hedge caps the loss to $500, or 100 shares x ($25 - $20), less the premium ($10 total) paid for the put option. In other words, even if Bank of America falls to $0 over the next month, the most this trader can lose is $510, because all losses in the stock below $20 are covered by the long put option.


   Example of Using a Long Put  

Let’s assume Apple Inc. (AAPL) is trading at $170 per share and you think it’s going to decrease in value by about 10% ahead of a new product launch. You decide to go long 10 put options with a strike price of $155 and pay $0.45. Your total long put options position outlay cost is $450 + fees and commissions (1,000 shares x $0.45 = $450). 



If the share price of Apple falls to $154 before expiry, your put options are now worth $1.00 since you could exercise them and be short 1,000 shares of the stock at $155 and immediately buy it back to cover at $154.



Your total long put options position is now worth $1,000 (less any fees and commissions), or (1,000 shares x $1.00 = $1,000). Your profit on the position is 122% = ($1,000-450)/450. Going long put options allowed you to realize a much greater gain than the 9.4% fall in the underlying stock price.



Alternatively, if Apple shares rose to $200, the 10 option contracts would expire worthless, resulting in you losing your initial outlay cost of $450.
What Is the Long Run?  

The long run is a situation in economics wherein all factors of production and costs are variable. The long run allows firms to operate and adjust all costs. There are also a variable number of producers in the market, which means firms are able to enter and leave the market during times of profitability and loss. In the long run, profits are ordinary, so there are no economic profits. While a firm may be a monopoly in the short term, it may expect competition in the long run.





Key Takeaways

The long run refers to a period of time where all factors of production and costs are variable.Over the long run, a firm will search for the production technology that allows it to produce the desired level of output at the lowest cost.The long run is associated with the LRAC curve along which a firm would minimize its cost per unit for each respective long run quantity of output.When the LRAC curve is declining, internal economies of scale are being exploited—and vice versa.


   How the Long Run Works  

The term long run is used to describe an economic situation in which a manufacturer or producer is flexible in its production decisions. This situation is characterized by variable inputs, including capital, labor, materials, and equipment, among others.



Businesses can either expand or reduce production capacity when there is a long run. There is also the chance to enter or exit an industry based on expected profits. Firms understand that they cannot change their levels of production in order to reach an equilibrium between supply and demand.



In macroeconomics, the long run is the period when the general price level, contractual wage rates, and expectations adjust fully to the state of the economy. This stands in contrast to the short run, when these variables may not fully adjust. Long-run models may also shift away from short-run equilibrium, in which supply and demand react to price levels with more flexibility.



Firms can change production levels in response to expected economic profits. For example, a firm may implement change by increasing (or decreasing) the scale of production in response to profits (or losses), which may entail building a new plant or adding a production line.






The long run doesn't refer to a specific period of time. Rather, it is specific to the firm, industry, or economic factor studied.


   Long Run and the Long-Run Average Cost (LRAC)   

Over the long run, a firm will search for the production technology that allows it to produce the desired level of output at the lowest cost. If a company is not producing at its lowest cost possible, it may lose market share to competitors that are able to produce and sell at minimum cost.



The long run is associated with the long-run average cost (LRAC), the average cost of output feasible when all factors of production are variable. The LRAC curve is the curve along which a firm would minimize its cost per unit for each respective quantity of output in the long run.



The LRAC curve is comprised of a group of short-run average cost (SRAC) curves, each of which represents one specific level of fixed costs. The LRAC curve will, therefore, be the least expensive average cost curve for any level of output. As long as the LRAC curve is declining, then internal economies of scale are being exploited.






The long-run average cost can also be called the long-run average total cost.


  Economies of Scale  

Economies of scale refer to the situation wherein, as the quantity of output goes up, the cost per unit goes down. In effect, economies of scale are the cost advantages that are achieved when there is an expansion of the size of production.



The cost advantages translate to improved efficiency in production, which can give a business a competitive advantage in its industry of operations, which, in turn, could translate to lower costs and higher profits for the business.



If LRAC is falling when output is increasing, then the firm is experiencing economies of scale. When LRAC eventually starts to rise then the firm experiences diseconomies of scale, and if LRAC is constant then the firm is experiencing constant returns to scale.


   Long Run vs. Short Run  

The long run is the opposite of the short run. This is an economic situation wherein firms want to meet a goal or target within a short period of time when demand for a product or service increases.



Unlike the long run, the short run involves at least one factor of production that is fixed while all the others are variable while the costs are fixed so there is no equilibrium between these factors. This means there is no flexibility when it comes to the inputs or outputs since the costs are fixed.



While ordinary profits are typical of the long run, the short run allows firms to realize economic or exceptional profits.










Differences Between Long-Run and Short-Run




 
Long Run 
Short Run 


Firms
Variable 
Fixed  


Labor
Variable 
Fixed or variable 


Capital/Costs
Variable
Fixed or variable


Flexibility
Time to adjust
No time to adjust


Profits
Ordinary profits
Exceptional profits





   Example of a Long Run  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how the long run works. Suppose a business has a one-year lease. This firm's long run is defined as any period longer than a year since it’s not bound by the lease agreement after that period of time. In the long run, the amount of labor, size of the factory, and production processes can be altered if needed to suit the needs of the business or lease issuer.




Why Is the Long Run Important in Economics?
The long run is an economic situation where all factors of production and costs are variable. It demonstrates how well-run and efficient firms can be when all of these factors change.




What Eliminates Economic Profits in the Long Run?
There is perfect competition in the long run. This means that firms can easily enter the market. Since there is the possibility of having an infinite number of competing firms in the same space, profits can easily be eliminated. Keep in mind, though, that companies can also easily leave the market, wiping out losses, too.




What Are Some of the Benefits of the Long Run?
Since the costs are variable in the long run, firms have the option to make adjustments to the way it operates. So when the need arises, it can increase or decrease operations. Furthermore, they can decide how best to shape their factors of production in order to reduce costs.


   The Bottom Line  

The long run is a situation where companies can operate under variable production factors. Because these inputs aren't fixed, costs are also variable. This allows a greater degree of flexibility because companies can make adjustments to their production levels and how they operate to keep costs down. But there is a downfall. There is usually perfect competition, which means there is no chance for exceptional profits.
What Is Long Straddle?  

A long straddle is an options strategy where the trader purchases both a long call and a long put on the same underlying asset with the same expiration date and strike price.





Key Takeaways

A long straddle is an options strategy that involves purchasing both a long call and a long put on the same underlying asset with the same expiration date and strike price.The goal of a long straddle is to profit from a very strong move, usually triggered by a newsworthy event, in either direction by the underlying asset.The risk of a long straddle strategy is that the market may not react strongly enough to the event or the news it generates.An alternative use of the long straddle strategy might be to capture the anticipated rise in implied volatility which would increase if the demand for these options increases.


   Understanding Long Straddle  

The long straddle option strategy is a bet that the underlying asset will move significantly in price, either higher or lower. The profit profile is the same no matter which way the asset moves. Typically, the trader thinks the underlying asset will move from a low volatility state to a high volatility state based on the imminent release of new information.



The strike price is at-the-money or as close to it as possible. Since calls benefit from an upward move, and puts benefit from a downward move in the underlying security, both of these components cancel out small moves in either direction. Therefore, the goal of a long straddle is to profit from a very strong move, usually triggered by a newsworthy event, in either direction by the underlying asset.



Traders may use a long straddle ahead of a news report, such as an earnings release, Fed action, the passage of a law, or the result of an election. They assume that the market is waiting for such an event, so trading is uncertain and in small ranges. When the event occurs, all that pent-up bullishness or bearishness is unleashed, sending the underlying asset moving quickly. Of course, since the actual event's result is unknown, the trader does not know whether to be bullish or bearish. Therefore, a long straddle is a logical strategy to profit from either outcome. But like any investment strategy, a long straddle also has its challenges.



The risk inherent in the long straddle strategy is that the market may not react strongly enough to the event or the news it generates. This is compounded by the fact that option sellers know the event is imminent which increases the prices of put and call options in anticipation of the event. This means that the cost of attempting the strategy is much higher than simply betting on one direction alone, and also more expensive than betting on both directions if no newsworthy event were approaching.



Because option sellers recognize that there is increased risk built into a scheduled, news-making event, they raise prices sufficient to cover what they expect to be approximately 70% of the anticipated event. This makes it much more difficult for traders to profit from the move because the price of the straddle will already include mild moves in either direction. If the anticipated event does not generate a strong move in either direction for the underlying security, then options purchased likely will expire worthless, creating a loss for the trader.


   Long Straddle Construction  

Long straddle positions have unlimited profit and limited risk. If the price of the underlying asset continues to increase, the potential advantage is unlimited. If the price of the underlying asset goes to zero, the profit would be the strike price less the premiums paid for the options. In either case, the maximum risk is the total cost to enter the position, which is the price of the call option plus the price of the put option.



The profit when the price of the underlying asset is increasing is given by:



Profit (up) = Price of the underlying asset - the strike price of the call option - net premium paid



The profit when the price of the underlying asset is decreasing is given by:



Profit (down) = Strike price of put option - the price of the underlying asset - net premium paid



The maximum loss is the total net premium paid plus any trade commissions. This loss occurs when the price of the underlying asset equals the strike price of the options at expiration.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



For example, a stock has a $50 per share price. A call option with a strike price of $50 is at $3, and the cost of a put option with the same strike is also $3. An investor enters into a straddle by purchasing one of each option. This implies that the option sellers expect a 70% probability that the move in the stock will be $6 or less in either direction. However, the position will profit at expiration if the stock is priced above $56 or below $44, regardless of how it was initially priced.



The maximum loss of $6 per share ($600 for one call and one put contract) occurs only if the stock is priced precisely at $50 on the close of the expiration day. The trader will experience a smaller loss than this if the price is anywhere between $56 and $44 per share. The trader will experience gain if the stock is higher than $56 or lower than $44. For example, If the stock moves to $65 at expiration, the position profit is (Profit = $65 - $50 - $6 = $9).


   Alternate Use of Long Straddle  

Many traders suggest an alternative method for using the long straddle might be to capture the anticipated rise in implied volatility. They would do so by initiating this strategy in the time period leading up to the event—say three weeks or more—but closing it (if profitable) just prior to the occurrence of the event. This method attempts to profit from the increasing demand for the options themselves, which increases the implied volatility component of the options themselves.



Because implied volatility is the most influential variable in the price of an option over time, increasing implied volatility increases the price of all options (puts and calls) at all strike prices. Owning both the put and the call removes the directional risk from the strategy, leaving only the implied volatility component. So if the trade is initiated before implied volatility increases, and is removed while implied volatility is at its peak, then the trade should be profitable.



Of course, the limitation of this second method is the natural tendency for options to lose value because of time decay. Overcoming this natural decrease in prices must be done by selecting options with expiration dates that are unlikely to be significantly affected by time decay (also known to option traders as theta).



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Synthetic Put?  

A synthetic put is an options strategy that combines a short stock position with a long call option on that same stock to mimic a long put option. It's also called a synthetic long put. Essentially, an investor who has a short position in a stock purchases an at-the-money call option on that same stock. This action is taken to protect against appreciation in the stock's price. A synthetic put is also known as a married call or protective call. 





Key Takeaways

A synthetic put is an options strategy that combines a short stock position with a long call option on that same stock to mimic a long put option.Synthetic puts are utilized when investors have a bearish bet on a stock and are concerned about potential near-term strength in that stock.A synthetic put's goal is to profit from the anticipated decline in the underlying stock's price, which is why it is often called a synthetic long put.


   Understanding Synthetic Puts  

The synthetic put is a strategy that investors can utilize when they have a bearish bet on a stock and are concerned about potential near-term strength in that stock. It is similar to an insurance policy except that the investor wants the price of the underlying stock to fall, not rise. The strategy combines the short sale of a security with a long-call position on the same security.



A synthetic put mitigates the risk that the underlying price will increase. It does not, however, deal with other dangers, which may leave the investor exposed. Because it involves a short position in the underlying stock, it carries with it all those associated risks—fees, margin interest, and the possibility of having to pay dividends to the investor from whom the shares were borrowed to sell short. 



Institutional investors can use synthetic puts to disguise their trading bias—be it bullish or bearish—on specific securities. However, for most investors, synthetic puts are best suited for use as an insurance policy. An increase in volatility would be beneficial to this strategy while time decay would impact it negatively.



The maximum profit for both a simple short position and a synthetic put is if the stock's value falls to zero. Note that any benefit from a synthetic put must be weighted against the options' premium.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



A synthetic put strategy helps protect against an increase in the stock's price, effectively putting a cap on the stock price. The cap limits upside risk for the investor (i.e. the risk that the short position's stock price rises).



The risk of a synthetic put strategy is limited to the difference between the price at which the underlying stock was shorted and the option's strike price (as well as any commissions). Put another way, at the time of the purchase of the option, if the price at which the investor shorted the stock was equal to the strike price, the loss for the strategy would be the premiums paid for the option.



Maximum Gain = Short sale price - Lowest stock price (ZERO) - PremiumsMaximum Loss = Short sale price - Long call strike price - PremiumsBreakeven Point = Short sale price - Premiums


   When to Use a Synthetic Put  

Rather than a profit-making strategy, a synthetic put is a capital-preserving strategy. With that, the cost of the call portion (the option premium) becomes a built-in cost. The option's price reduces the profitability of the method—assuming the underlying stock moves in the desired direction, lower.



Thus, synthetic puts are often used as insurance policies against short-term spikes in stock prices (in an otherwise bearish stock), or as a protection against an unforeseen move upward in the stock price.



Newer investors may benefit from knowing that their losses in the stock market are limited. This safety net can give them confidence as they learn more about different investing strategies. Of course, any protection will come at a cost, which includes the price of the option, commissions, and other possible fees.
What Is the Long Tail?  

The long tail is a business strategy that allows companies to realize significant profits by selling low volumes of hard-to-find items to many customers, instead of only selling large volumes of a reduced number of popular items. The term was first coined in 2004 by Chris Anderson, who argued that products in low demand or with low sales volume can collectively make up market share that rivals or exceeds the relatively few current bestsellers and blockbusters but only if the store or distribution channel is large enough.



Long-tail may also refer to a type of liability in the insurance industry or to tail risk found in investment portfolios. This definition deals with the business strategy use of the term.


   Understanding the Long Tail Strategy  

Chris Anderson is a British-American writer and editor most notably known for his work at Wired Magazine. In 2004, Anderson coined the phrase "long tail" after writing about the concept in Wired Magazine where he was editor-in-chief. In 2006, Anderson also wrote a book titled “The Long Tail: Why the Future of Business Is Selling Less of More.”



The long tail concept considers less popular goods that are in lower demand. Anderson argues that these goods could actually increase in profitability because consumers are navigating away from mainstream markets. This theory is supported by the growing number of online marketplaces that alleviate the competition for shelf space and allow an unmeasurable number of products to be sold, specifically through the Internet.



Anderson’s research shows the demand overall for these less popular goods as a comprehensive whole could rival the demand for mainstream goods. While mainstream products achieve a greater number of hits through leading distribution channels and shelf space, their initial costs are high, which drags on their profitability. In comparison, long tail goods have remained in the market over long periods of time and are still sold through off-market channels. These goods have low distribution and production costs, yet are readily available for sale.





Key Takeaways

The long tail is a business strategy that allows companies to realize significant profits by selling low volumes of hard-to-find items to many customers, instead of only selling large volumes of a reduced number of popular items.The term was first coined in 2004 by researcher Chris Anderson.Anderson argues that these goods could actually increase in profitability because consumers are navigating away from mainstream markets.The strategy theorizes that consumers are shifting from mass-market buying to more niche or artisan buying.


   Long Tail Probability and Profitability  

The long tail of distribution represents a period in time when sales for less common products can return a profit due to reduced marketing and distribution costs. Overall, long tail occurs when sales are made for goods not commonly sold. These goods can return a profit through reduced marketing and distribution costs.



The long tail also serves as a statistical property that states a larger share of population rests within the long tail of a probability distribution as opposed to the concentrated tail that represents a high level of hits from the traditional mainstream products highly stocked by mainstream retail stores.



The head and long tail graph depicted by Anderson in his research represents this complete buying pattern. The concept overall suggests the U.S. economy is likely to shift from one of mass-market buying to an economy of niche buying all through the 21st century.
What Is Long Term?  

"Long term" refers to the extended period of time that an asset is held. Depending on the type of security, a long-term asset can be held for as little as one year or for as long as 30 years or more. Generally speaking, long-term investing for individuals is often thought to be in the range of at least seven to 10 years of holding time, although there is no absolute rule.  





Key Takeaways

"Long term" refers to the extended period of time that an asset is held.The length of time that designates a long-term asset is usually a security being held for at least a year."Long term" is a subjective term that depends on the investor; however, selling an asset that is held for less than a year will have different tax consequences than selling it after holding it for a year or more.Long-term investments are recorded on the asset side of a company's balance sheet as investments.Short-term investments are marked-to-market, and any declines in their value are recognized as a loss, where increases are not recognized until sold.


   Understanding Long Term  

"Long term" is one of those phrases that is so ubiquitous in finance that it has become difficult to pin down a specific meaning. The media frequently advises people to "invest for the long term," but determining whether or not an investment is long-term is very subjective.



A day trader, for example, would define "long term" much differently than a buy-and-hold investor. For the day trader, a position held overnight would be a long-term commitment. For the buy-and-hold investor, anything less than several years may be considered short-term.


   Long-Term Investing for Companies  

A long-term investment is found on the asset side of a company's balance sheet, representing the company's investments, including stocks, bonds, real estate, and cash, that it intends to hold for more than a year.



When a firm purchases shares of stock or another company's debt as investments, determining whether to classify it as short-term or long-term affects the way those assets are valued on the balance sheet.



Short-term investments are marked-to-market, and any declines in their value are recognized as a loss; however, increases in value are not recognized until the item is sold. This means that classifying an investment as long- or short-term has a direct impact on the reported net income of the company holding the investment.



Analysts look for changes in long-term assets as a sign that a company may be liquidating to cover current expenses; generally, a problem if it continues.


   Long-Term Investing for Individuals  

For many individuals, saving and investing for retirement represents their main long-term project. While it is true that there are other expenses that require a multi-year effort, such as buying a car or buying and paying off a house, retirement is the main reason most people have a portfolio. In this case, we are encouraged to start early and invest often.



Real estate is often considered to be a long-term investment. Individuals that buy a house usually sell it many years after they have bought it or they own it until the mortgage is fully paid off.






Profitable securities sold after a year are subject to capital gains tax as opposed to ordinary income tax for securities sold under a year.



Stocks, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) can either be long-term or short-term investments, depending on how long they are held for. An individual can buy a stock and sell it if it appreciates in a few weeks or months. Conversely, the same stock can be held for years and sold until it has appreciated even more.



Using both a long-term outlook and the power of compounding, individual investors can use the years they have between themselves and retirement to take prudent risks. When your time horizon is measured in decades, market downturns and other risks can be taken for the long-term rewards of a higher overall return.




What Is Considered a Long-Term Investment?
Long-term investments are any securities that are held for more than a year, generally. These can include stocks, bonds, real estate, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).




What Are the Characteristics of a Long-Term Investment Strategy?
A long-term investment strategy aims to hold an investment security for a year or more. Long-term investment strategies come with a higher amount of risk due to the unpredictability of future outcomes. Furthermore, the goal is price appreciation over a long period, rather than immediately, which means riding out dips in a security's price. Long-term investments should also be part of a diversified portfolio to reduce long-term volatility.




Is Gold a Good Long-Term Investment?
Gold has long been considered a good investment to hedge against inflation as well as a store of value; however, data has shown that both stocks and bonds have outperformed gold in the long term, on average. Depending on the specific period, however, gold can outperform stocks and bonds.




What Are Long-Term Marketable Securities?
Marketable securities can be most investments, including stocks, bonds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Marketable securities are considered current assets and are expected to be sold in less than a year, usually a few months. These types of securities are typically liquid securities that can be sold easily as there is a large number of buyers.




Why Are Long-Term Securities Less Liquid?
Long-term securities are less liquid because they need to be held for a longer time to realize a profit. In many cases, they are also not easily sold. For example, a house is considered a long-term investment; one that takes time to appreciate and that cannot be sold quickly. Bonds with longer maturities also have higher payouts over time but need to be held longer for a higher yield.
What Is the Long-Legged Doji?  

The long-legged doji is a candlestick that consists of long upper and lower shadows and has approximately the same opening and closing price, resulting in a small real body.





Key Takeaways

The long-legged doji is a candlestick that consists of long upper and lower shadows and has approximately the same opening and closing price.The pattern shows indecision and is most significant when it occurs after a strong advance or decline.While some traders may act on the one-candle pattern, others want to see what the price does after the long-legged doji.The pattern is not always significant, and won't always mark the end of a trend—it could mark the start of a consolidation period, or it may just end up being an insignificant blip in the current trend.


   Understanding the Long-Legged Doji  

A long-legged doji signals indecision about the future direction of the underlying security's price. Long-legged dojis may also mark the start of a consolidation period, where the price forms one or more long-legged dojis before moving into a tighter pattern or breaking out to form a new trend.



Long-legged doji candles are deemed to be most significant when they occur during a strong uptrend or downtrend. The long-legged doji suggests that the forces of supply and demand are nearing equilibrium and that a trend reversal may occur. This is because equilibrium or indecision means that the price is no longer pushing in the direction it once was. Sentiment may be changing.



For example, during an uptrend, the price is getting pushed higher and the close of most periods is above the open. The long-legged doji shows there was a battle between the buyers and sellers but ultimately they ended up about even. This is different than the prior periods where the buyers were in control.



The pattern can be found across any time frame but has greater significance on longer-term charts as more participants contribute to its formation. It is part of the broader doji family that consists of the standard doji, dragonfly doji, and gravestone doji.


   Long-Legged Doji Trading Considerations  

There are multiple ways to trade a long-legged doji, although trading based on the pattern is not required. The pattern is only one candle, which some traders feel is not significant enough, especially since the price didn't move much on a closing basis, to warrant a trade decision.



Some traders will want to see more confirmation—the price movements that occur after the long-legged doji—before acting. This is because long-legged dojis can sometimes occur in clusters, or as part of a larger consolidation. These consolidations may result in reversals of the prior trend, or a continuation of it, depending on which way the price breaks out of the consolidation.



If looking to trade the pattern, here are some general trade ideas:



Entry: Since the pattern is viewed as an indecision period, a trader could wait for the price to move above the high or low of the long-legged doji. If the price moves above, enter a long position. If the price moves below the pattern, enter a short position. Alternatively, wait and see if a consolidation forms around the long-legged doji, and then enter long or short when the price moves above or below the consolidation, respectively.
Risk Management: If entering long as the price moves above the long-legged doji or consolidation, place a stop loss below the pattern or consolidation. Conversely, if entering short as the price moves below the long-legged doji or consolidation, place a stop loss above the pattern or consolidation.
Market Structure: The long-legged doji is more likely to give a valid signal if it appears near a major support or resistance level. For example, if the price is rising and then forms a long-legged doji near a major resistance level, this may increase the chances of the price experiencing a decline if the price drops below the long-legged doji low.
Taking Profit: Long-legged dojis don't have profit targets attached to them, so traders will need to come up with a way to take profits if any should develop. Traders could utilize technical indicators, or exit when the price crosses a moving average, for example. Some traders may utilize a fixed risk/reward ratio. For instance, if risking a $200 trade, they exit the trade when they are up $400 or $600.



Anyone interested in learning more about the long-legged doji may want to consider enrolling in one of the best technical analysis courses.


   Long-Legged Doji Example  

The following chart shows a few examples of long-legged dojis in Tesla Inc. The examples show that the pattern isn't always significant on its own. The overall context, or market structure, is though.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



On the left, the price is falling and then forms a long-legged doji. The price consolidates and then moves up. Ultimately the price can't gain traction, though, and the price falls once again.



As the price continues falling it forms another long-legged doji. This is once again the start of a consolidation period. The price breaks above the consolidation and moves higher overall. The long-legged doji didn't cause the reversal, but it did foreshadow the consolidation or indecision present in the market before the reversal higher.



On the right, the price falls and consolidates. The long-legged doji forms after the consolidation, dropping slightly below the consolidation low but then rallying to close within the consolidation. The price then broke higher. This doji had a slightly larger real body.
What Is Long-Run Average Total Cost (LRATC)?  

Long-run average total cost (LRATC) is a business metric that represents the average cost per unit of output over the long run, where all inputs are considered to be variable and the scale of production is changeable. The long-run average cost curve shows the lowest total cost to produce a given level of output in the long run.



Long-term unit costs are almost always less than short-term unit costs because, in a long-term time frame, companies have the flexibility to change big components of their operations, such as factories, to achieve optimal efficiency. A goal of both company management and investors is to determine the lower bounds of LRATC.


   Understanding Long-Run Average Total Cost  

For instance, if a manufacturing company builds a new, larger plant for production, it is assumed that the LRATC per unit would eventually become lower than at the old plant as the company takes advantage of certain economies of scale or the cost advantages that come from expanding the scale of production. When the scale of production is expanded, average costs are reduced, production becomes more efficient, and a company can become more competitive in the market. This can lead to both lower prices and larger profits, which can be beneficial for both consumers and producers—this is known as a positive-sum game.





Key Takeaways

LRATC measures the average cost per unit of output over the long run.In long-term time frames, companies have more flexibility to change their operations.


   How to Visualize Long-Run Average Total Cost  

The calculation of the LRATC may be represented as a curve showing the lowest costs that a company will be able to reach for any degree of output over time. The shape of that curve can closely resemble the curve calculated for short-run average total costs. The LRATC can be seen as made up of a series of short-run curves as a company improves its efficiency. The curve itself can be divided into three segments or phases. During the economies of scale at the beginning of the curve, costs are reduced as the company grows more efficient and its production costs diminish.



The first iterations of product development and assembly carry costs that will largely be greater at the onset. As more factories and production lines are introduced, the nature of costs shifts more towards the ongoing manufacturing of the product. The burden of those expenditures diminishes as it becomes easier for the company to repeat and replicate its operations.



Eventually, the company will experience constant returns to scale as it pushes closer to peak efficiency. Cost of acquisition for raw materials can be reduced by making such purchases in increasingly growing quantities. Furthermore, the processes the company uses to make its product can become more stable and streamlined as it develops a rhythm and pace for its production flow.



If the company continues to scale up production, it will reach the part of the curve where diseconomies of scale become a factor and costs rise. Though a company might streamline operations, it might see new layers of bureaucracy and management introduced, which can slow overall production and decision making. The more the operation grows at this stage, the costs will rise as the operation loses efficiency.


   Example of Long-Run Average Total Cost  

For example, in the video game industry, the costs to produce a game are high. However, the cost of making copies of a game, once produced, is marginal. So, once a company can establish itself, expand the customer base for a specific game, and raise demand for that game, the extra output required to meet that demand lowers overall cost in the long run.
What Is Long-Short Equity?  

Long-short equity is an investing strategy that takes long positions in stocks that are expected to appreciate and short positions in stocks that are expected to decline. A long-short equity strategy seeks to minimize market exposure while profiting from stock gains in the long positions, along with price declines in the short positions. Although this may not always be the case, the strategy should be profitable on a net basis.



The long-short equity strategy is popular with hedge funds, many of which employ a market-neutral strategy, in which dollar amounts of both long and short positions are equal.





Key Takeaways

Long-short equity is an investment strategy that seeks to take a long position in underpriced stocks while selling short overpriced shares.Long-short seeks to augment traditional long-only investing by taking advantage of profit opportunities from securities identified as both under-valued and over-valued.Long-short equity is commonly used by hedge funds, which often take a relative long bias—for instance, a 130/30 strategy where long exposure is 130% of AUM and 30% is short exposure.


   How Long-Short Equity Works  

Long-short equity works by exploiting profit opportunities in both potential upside and downside expected price moves. This strategy identifies and takes long positions in stocks identified as being relatively underpriced while selling short stocks that are deemed to be overpriced.



While many hedge funds also employ a long-short equity strategy with a long bias (such as 130/30, where long exposure is 130% and short exposure is 30%), comparatively fewer hedge funds employ a short bias to their long-short strategy. It is historically more difficult to uncover profitable short ideas than long ideas.



Long-short equity strategies can be differentiated from one another in a number of ways—by market geography (advanced economies, emerging markets, Europe, etc.), sector (energy, technology, etc.), investment philosophy (value or growth), and so on.



An example of a long-short equity strategy with a broad mandate would be a global equity growth fund, while an example of a relatively narrow mandate would be an emerging markets healthcare fund.






   Long-Short Equity vs. Equity Market Neutral  

A long-short equity fund differs from an equity market neutral (EMN) fund in that the latter attempts to exploit differences in stock prices by being long and short in closely related stocks that have similar characteristics.



An EMN strategy attempts to keep the total value of their long and short holdings roughly equal, as this helps to lower the overall risk. To maintain this equivalency between long and short, equity market neutral funds must rebalance as market trends establish and strengthen.



So as other long-short hedge funds let profits run on market trends and even leverage up to amplify them, equity market neutral funds are actively staunching returns and increasing the size of the opposite position. When the market inevitably turns again, equity market neutral funds again whittle down the position that should profit to move more into the portfolio that is suffering.



A hedge fund with an equity market neutral strategy is generally aiming itself at institutional investors who are shopping for a hedge fund that can outperform bonds without carrying the high risk and high reward profile of more aggressive funds.


   Long-Short Equity Example: The Pair Trade  

A popular variation of the long-short model is that of the “pair trade," which involves offsetting a long position on a stock with a short position on another stock in the same sector.



For example, an investor in the technology space may take a long position in Microsoft and offset that with a short position in Intel. If the investor buys 1,000 shares of Microsoft at $33 each, and Intel is trading at $22, the short leg of this paired trade would involve purchasing 1,500 Intel shares so that the dollar amounts of the long and short positions are equal.



The ideal situation for this long-short strategy would be for Microsoft to appreciate and for Intel to decline. If Microsoft rises to $35 and Intel falls to $21, the overall profit on this strategy would be $3,500. Even if Intel advances to $23—since the same factors typically drive stocks up or down in a specific sector—the strategy would still be profitable at $500, although much less so.



To get around the fact that stocks within a sector generally tend to move up or down in unison, long-short strategies frequently tend to use different sectors for the long and short legs. For example, if interest rates are rising, a hedge fund may short interest-sensitive sectors such as utilities, and go long on defensive sectors, such as healthcare.
What Is a Long/Short Fund?  

A long/short fund is a type of mutual fund or hedge fund that takes both long and short positions in investments typically from a specific market segment. These funds often use several alternative investing techniques such as leverage, derivatives, and short positions to purchases relatively undervalued securities and sell overvalued ones. Long/short funds may also be referred to as enhanced funds or 130/30 funds.





Key Takeaways

Long/short funds use an investment strategy that seeks to take a long position in underpriced stocks while selling short overpriced shares.Long/short seeks to augment traditional long-only investing by taking advantage of profit opportunities from securities identified as both under-valued and over-valued.Long/short equity is commonly used by hedge funds, which often take a relative long bias—for instance, a 130/30 strategy where long exposure is 130% of AUM and 30% is short exposure.


   Understanding Long/Short Funds  

Long/short funds typically seek to enhance the returns from investing in a specific market segment by actively taking both long and short positions in securities. Long/short funds use varying active management techniques to determine portfolio holdings. They may also use leverage, derivatives, and short positions which can increase the risks of the fund as well as the fund’s potential total return.



Long/short funds represent some similarities to hedge funds. They seek to offer investment strategies with greater risk and greater return potential over standard benchmarks. Most long/short funds feature higher liquidity than hedge funds, no lock-in periods, and lower fees. However, they still have higher fees and less liquidity than most mutual funds. Long/short funds also may require higher minimum investments than other mutual funds. Long/short funds are more closely regulated than hedge funds therefore they have limitations on the use of leverage and derivatives where hedge funds do not.



Long/short funds can be a good investment for investors seeking targeted index exposure with some active management. Long/short funds also offer the advantage of hedging against changing market environments and other trends that active management can account for.



The most common long/short strategy is to be long 130% and short 30% (130 - 30 = 100%) of assets under management. To engage in a 130-30 strategy, an investment manager might rank the stocks used in the S&P 500 from best to worse on expected return, as signaled by past performance. A manager will use a number of data sources and rules for ranking individual stocks. Typically stocks are ranked according to selection criteria (for example, total returns, risk-adjusted performance, or relative strength) over a designated look-back period of six months or one year. The stocks are then ranked best to worst.



The manager would invest 100% in the top-ranked stocks and short sell the bottom-ranking stocks, up to 30% of the portfolio's value. The cash earned from the short sales would be reinvested into top-ranking stocks, allowing for greater exposure to the higher-ranking stocks.


   Examples of Long/Short Funds  

The performance of long/short funds, like any hedge fund, will vary from year to year, and the best funds in one year may lag in another. ICON and RiverPark are two of the top-performing long/short funds in 2017, but they lagged behind their peers in 2020. Still, they provide a good insight into what long/short funds do.



ICON Long/Short Fund: The ICON Long/Short fund had a year-to-date performance of 25.96% as of Dec. 1, 2017. The fund’s investable universe includes all equity securities traded in the U.S. market. It uses the S&P 1500 Index as its benchmark. The fund uses quantitative analysis to identify undervalued and overvalued securities in the investment universe. It then takes long positions in stocks it believes to be undervalued and short positions in stocks it believes to be overvalued.
RiverPark Long/Short Opportunity Fund: The RiverPark Long/Short Opportunity Fund is another top-performing fund in the category. Year to date as of Dec. 1, 2017, the Fund had a return of 24.07%. The Fund uses a proprietary investment process for identifying undervalued and overvalued securities. It also has a transparent framework for its portfolio holdings. The Fund invests in U.S. equities across all market capitalizations and may also invest in foreign equities. It seeks to buy undervalued companies and take short positions on overvalued companies. It generally holds 40 to 60 long positions and 40 to 75 short positions.
What Is a Long-Tail Liability?  

A long-tail liability is a type of liability that carries a long settlement period. Long-tail liabilities are likely to result in high incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, because it may take a long period of time for the claims to be settled.





Key Takeaways

A long-tail liability is a type of liability that carries a long settlement period.Liability insurance claims often involve large sums of money and can result in a settlement as well as a lengthy court case.Examples of long-tail liabilities include medical malpractice, employment discrimination, and cases of child abuse. 


   Understanding a Long-Tail Liability  

Whether a settlement period for an insurance claim is considered a long-tail liability or short term varies according to the type of risk being covered. Property insurance claims tend to be settled relatively quickly, while liability insurance claims are often classified as long-tail liabilities. 



Liability insurance providers often see new claims being filed a long time after the claim event occurred. The long settlement period or long-tail liability can occur for a variety of reasons, including:



Liability insurance claims often involve large sums of money relative to other types of insurance claims.Liability insurance claims can also result in a settlement as well as a lengthy court case.The insurance company often wants to investigate the claim thoroughly to ensure that it is being made in good faith and is not fraudulent.


   Financial Impact of Long-Tail Liabilities  

Insurance companies that offer coverage for risks that are considered long-tail may have higher investment income ratios (net investment income / earned premiums) than companies that offer coverage for short-term liabilities. The investment income ratio is used to determine an insurance company’s profitability. Insurance companies typically invest the premiums they receive from their customers. Policies that cover long-tail risks have a larger gap between the time premiums are collected versus when claims are paid. As a result, long-tail insurance providers have more time to invest their premiums, allowing them more time to earn a higher rate of return.



However, policies covering long-tail liabilities tend to have higher loss ratios (losses incurred divided by earned premiums) and higher combined ratios (losses and loss adjustment expenses divided by earned premium). The combined ratio also helps to determine the profitability of an insurer. The ratio includes the premiums collected, claims paid, and any claim-related expenses. A combined ratio below 100% indicates that the insurer is making a profit while a ratio above 100% means the company is paying out more in claims than its collecting in premiums.


   Special Considerations  

Since it can be years, or even decades, before a claim is made and makes its way through courts, proper record keeping is imperative. Companies that face the potential of long-tail liability claims should be careful with old records and keep them until an effort has been made to determine if insurance policies, or evidence of insurance policies, is among them.



If a company is unable to locate an old liability policy, it must rely instead on secondary evidence to show that a policy existed and that it was lost or destroyed without intent to defraud the insurer. Such evidence could include corporate minutes, accounting ledgers, annual reports, internal memoranda, transactional records, and even personal appointment calendars–but nothing is more important than locating the policy number itself.


   Examples of Long-Tail Liability Claims  

Although the type of claim and the length of the settlement process can vary, below are some of the most common long-tail liability claims.



Occupational disease claims, such as asbestos and environmental claims that involve air pollution exposure over many yearsMedical malpractice, such as a patient sues a doctor for medical malpractice months after a surgery or procedureCyber liabilities covered under cyber insurance policies, which help to recover monetary damages for an individual or company following a cyber breachEmployment discriminationChild abuse
What Are Long-Term Assets?  

Long-term assets are assets, whether tangible or non-tangible, that will benefit the company for more that one year. Also known as non-current assets, long-term assets can include fixed assets such as a company's property, plant, and equipment, but can also include other assets such as long term investments, patents, copyright, franchises, goodwill, trademarks, and trade names, as well as software.



Long-term assets are reported on the balance sheet and are usually recorded at the price at which they were purchased, and so do not always reflect the current value of the asset. Long-term assets can be contrasted with current assets, which can be conveniently sold, consumed, used, or exhausted through standard business operations with one year.





Key Takeaways

Long-term assets are investments in a company that will benefit the company for many years.Long-term assets can include fixed assets such as a company's property, plant, and equipment, but can also include intangible assets, which can't be physically touched such as long-term investments or a company's trademark.Changes in long-term assets can be a sign of capital investment or liquidation.


   Understanding Long-Term assets  

Long-term assets are those held on a company's balance sheet for many years. Long-term assets can include tangible assets, which are physical and also intangible assets that cannot be touched such as a company's trademark or patent.



There is no standardized accounting formula that identifies an asset as being a long-term asset, but it is commonly assumed that such an asset must have a useful life of more than one year.



Some examples of long-term assets include:



Fixed assets like property, plant, and equipment, which can include land, machinery, buildings, fixtures, and vehicles
Long-term investments such as stocks and bonds or real estate, or investments made in other companies.
Trademarks, client lists, patents
The goodwill acquired in a merger or acquisition, which is considered an intangible long-term asset



Changes observed in long-term assets on a companies balance sheet can be a sign of capital investment or liquidation. If a company is investing in its long-term growth, it will use revenues to make more asset purchases designed to drive earnings in the long-run. However, investors must be aware that some companies will sell their long-term assets in order to raise cash to meet short-term operational costs, or pay the debt, which can be a warning sign that a company is in financial difficulty.


   Current vs. Long-Term Assets  

The two main types of assets appearing on the balance sheet are current and non-current assets. Current assets on the balance sheet contain all of the assets and holdings that are likely to be converted into cash within one year. Companies rely on their current assets to fund ongoing operations and pay current expenses such as accounts payable. Current assets will include items such as cash, inventories, and accounts receivables.



Non-current assets are long-term assets that have a useful life of more than one year and usually last for several years. Long-term assets are considered to be less liquid, meaning they can't be easily liquidated into cash.


   Depreciation of Long-Term Assets  

Depreciation is an accounting convention that allows companies to expense a portion of long-term operating assets used in the current year. It is a non-cash expense that increases net income but also helps to match revenues with expenses in the period in which they are incurred.



Capital assets, such as plant, and equipment (PP&E), are included in long-term assets, except for the portion designated to be depreciated (expensed) in the current year. Long-term assets can be depreciated based on a linear or accelerated schedule, and can provide a tax deduction for the company. Analysts will often consider a company's earnings before the depreciation of assets (e.g. EBITDA) as a key factor in understanding their financial situation, since depreciation can obscure the true value of long-term assets on their affect on a company's profitability.


   Limitations of Long-Term Assets  

Long-term assets can be expensive and require large amounts of capital that can drain a company's cash or increase its debt. A limitation with analyzing a company's long-term assets is that investors often will not see their benefits for a long time, perhaps years to come. Investors are left to trust the management team's ability to map out the future of the company and allocate capital effectively.






Not all long-term assets drive earnings. Drug companies invest billions of dollars in R&D researching new drugs, but only a few come to market and are profitable.



As with analyzing any financial metric, investors should take a holistic view of a company with respect to its long-term assets. It's best to utilize multiple financial ratios and metrics when performing a financial analysis of a company.


   Real World Example  

Below is a portion of Exxon Mobil Corporation's (XOM) balance sheet as of September 30, 2018. 



Exxon's long-term assets are highlighted in green on the company's balance sheet.The long-term assets are below the total of current assets, which is highlighted in blue.Exxon's long-term assets include investments, and long-term receivables totaling $40.427 billion for the period.Property, plant, and equipment totaled $249.153 billion, which includes the company's oil rigs and drilling machinery.Other assets including the company's intangible assets totaled $11.073 billion.Exxon's total long-term assets for the period equaled $300.653 billion or ($40.427 + $249.153 + $11.073).﻿﻿















Example of Long-Term Assets Exxon.
Investopedia
What Is a Long-Term Capital Gain or Loss?  

A long-term capital gain or loss is the gain or loss stemming from the sale of a qualifying investment that has been owned for longer than 12 months at the time of sale. This may be contrasted with short-term gains or losses on investments that are disposed of in less than 12 months. Long-term capital gains are often given more favorable tax treatment than short-term gains.





Key Takeaways

Long-term capital gains or losses apply to the sale of an investment made after owning it for 12 months or longer.Long-term capital gains are often taxed at a more favorable tax rate than short-term gains.Long-term losses can be used to offset future long-term gains.As of 2023, the long-term capital gains tax stands at 0%–20% depending on one's tax bracket.


   Understanding Long-Term Capital Gain or Loss  

The long-term capital gain or loss amount is determined by the difference in value between the sale price and the purchase price. This figure is either the net profit or loss the investor experienced when selling the asset. Short-term capital gains or losses are determined by the net profit or loss an investor experiences when selling an asset owned for less than 12 months. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) assigns a lower tax rate to long-term capital gains than to short-term capital gains.



A taxpayer will need to report the total of their capital gains earned for the year when they file their annual tax returns. The IRS will treat any short-term capital gains earnings as taxable income, while long-term capital gains are taxed at a lower rate. As of 2023, this rate ranges from 0 to 20%, depending on the tax bracket that the taxpayer is in.



When it comes to capital losses, both short-term and long-term losses are treated the same. For example, imagine you have two stocks you've held for more than one year and two for less than one year.






It can take several years to fully deduct a csignificant capital loss, so it pays to ensure you're only selling an investment at a loss if you're certain you can make it up.



In each case, you sold one stock for a gain and one for a greater loss. The sum of the gain and loss of the two stocks you've held for more than one year is your net long-term capital loss. You also sum the gains and losses from the two stocks you held for less than one year for your net short-term capital loss. In both cases, you can add the losses together and deduct or carry over up to $3,000 yearly on your tax returns.


   Examples of Long-Term Capital Gains and Losses  

Imagine Mellie Grant is filing her taxes, and she has a long-term capital gain from the sale of her shares of stock for TechNet Limited. Mellie purchased these shares a few years ago during the initial offering period for $175,000 and sells them now for $220,000. She experiences a long-term capital gain of $45,000, which will then be subject to the capital gains tax.






The sale of your primary home is taxed differently, even if you made gains on the sale. If you meet the eligibility requirements, you can exclude up to $500,000 of the home's sale from gains.



Now assume she is also selling the vacation home she purchased less than one year ago for $80,000. She has not owned the property for very long, so she has not gathered much equity in it. When she sells it only a few months later, she receives $82,000. This presents her with a short-term capital gain of $2,000. Unlike the sale of her long-held shares of stock, this profit will be taxed as income, adding $2,000 to her annual income calculation.



If Mellie had instead sold her vacation home for $78,000, experiencing a short-term loss, she could have used that $2,000 to offset some of her tax liability for the $45,000 long-term capital gains she had experienced.




Can You Deduct a Long-Term Capital Loss?
The Internal Revenue Service lets you deduct and carry over to the next tax year any capital losses. However, you can only claim the lessor of $3,000 ($1,500 if you're married filing separately) or your total net loss.




Is There a Limit on Long-Term Capital Losses?
There is no limit on how much you can lose, but there is a limit on what you can claim as a capital loss deduction in one year. If you have a capital loss of more than $3,000, you can deduct $3,000 and carry over the rest to the next tax year.




Does the IRS Track Capital Loss Carryover?
You're allowed to deduct up to $3,000 in capital losses per year, carrying over any remaining losses into the following year. So, if you've experienced $9,000 in capital losses, each year for three years you can deduct $3,000 from your income to offset the loss.


   The Bottom Line  

Long-term capital gains and losses result from selling an investment you've held for more than one year. The IRS gives you a tax break for holding investments by reducing taxes on any gains you make from a sale. You can also deduct or carry over to the next tax year up to $3,000 in capital losses, then $3,000 again the following year, and so on, until you've claimed all the losses.
What Was Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM)?  

Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) was a large hedge fund, led by Nobel Prize-winning economists and renowned Wall Street traders, that blew up in 1998, forcing the U.S. government to intervene to prevent financial markets from collapsing.





Key Takeaways

Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) was a large hedge fund led by Nobel Prize-winning economists and renowned Wall Street traders.LTCM was profitable in its heyday in the 1990s, drawing over $1 billion of investor capital by promising that its arbitrage strategy would yield huge returns for investors.LTCM’s highly leveraged trading strategies failed to pan out and, with losses mounting due to Russia's debt default, the U.S. government had to step in and arrange a bailout to stave off global financial contagion.Ultimately, a loan fund, comprised of a consortium of Wall Street banks, was created to bail out LTCM in September 1998, enabling it to liquidate in an orderly manner.


   Understanding Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM)  

LTCM was wildly successful from 1994-1998, attracting more than $1 billion of investor capital with the promise of an arbitrage strategy that could take advantage of temporary changes in market behavior and, theoretically, reduce the risk level to zero.



However, LTCM's highly leveraged trading strategies failed to pan out and it suffered monumental losses. The reverberations were felt across the financial landscape and nearly collapsed the global financial system in 1998. Ultimately, the U.S. government had to step in and arrange a bailout of LTCM by a consortium of Wall Street banks in order to prevent systemic contagion.


  LTCM's Business Model  

LTCM started with just over $1 billion in initial assets and focused on bond trading. The trading strategy of the fund was to make convergence trades, which involve taking advantage of arbitrage opportunities between securities. To be successful, these securities must be incorrectly priced, relative to one another, at the time of the trade.



An example of an arbitrage trade would be a change in interest rates not yet adequately reflected in securities prices. This could open opportunities to trade such securities at values different from what they will soon become—once the new rates have been priced in.






LTCM was formed in 1993 and was founded by renowned Salomon Brothers bond trader John Meriwether, along with Nobel-prize winning Myron Scholes of the Black-Scholes model.



LTCM also dealt in interest rate swaps, which involve the exchange of one series of future interest payments for another, based on a specified principal among two counterparties. Often interest rate swaps consist of changing a fixed rate for a floating rate or vice versa, in order to minimize exposure to general interest rate fluctuations.



Due to the small spread in arbitrage opportunities, LTCM had to leverage itself highly to make money. At the fund’s height in 1998, LTCM had approximately $5 billion in assets, controlled over $100 billion, and had positions whose total worth was over $1 trillion. At the time, LTCM also had borrowed more than $120 billion in assets.


   Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) Demise  

When Russia defaulted on its debt in August 1998, LTCM was holding a significant position in Russian government bonds, known by the acronym GKO. Despite the loss of hundreds of millions of dollars per day, LTCM's computer models recommended that it hold its positions.



LTCM's highly leveraged nature, coupled with a financial crisis in Russia, led the hedge fund to sustain massive losses and be in danger of defaulting on its own loans. This made it difficult for LTCM to cut its losses in its positions. LTCM held huge positions, totaling roughly 5% of the total global fixed-income market, and had borrowed massive amounts of money to finance these leveraged trades.






If LTCM had gone into default, it would have triggered a global financial crisis due to the massive write-offs its creditors would have had to make.



When the losses approached $4 billion, the federal government of the United States feared that the imminent collapse of LTCM would precipitate a larger financial crisis and orchestrated a bailout to calm the markets. A $3.65-billion loan fund was created, which enabled LTCM to survive the market volatility and liquidate in an orderly manner in early 2000.
What Is Long-Term Care (LTC) Insurance?  

Long-term care (LTC) insurance is coverage that provides nursing-home care, home-health care, and personal or adult daycare for individuals age 65 or older or with a chronic or disabling condition that needs constant supervision. LTC insurance offers more flexibility and options than many public assistance programs, such as Medicaid.





Key Takeaways

Long-term care insurance usually covers all or part of assisted living facilities and in-home care for people 65 or older or with a chronic condition that needs constant care.It is private insurance available to anyone who can afford to pay for it.Long-term care insurance offers more flexibility and options than Medicaid.


   Understanding Long-Term Care (LTC) Insurance  

Many people are unable to rely on children or family members for support and buy long-term care insurance to help cover out-of-pocket expenses. Otherwise, long-term care expenses would quickly deplete the savings of an individual and/or their family.



While the costs of long-term care differ by region, it is usually very expensive. In 2021, for example, the average cost of a private room in a skilled nursing facility or nursing home was $108,405 a year, according to a report on long-term care by Genworth. A home health aide costs an average of $61,776 annually.



In the United States, Medicaid provides for low-income individuals or those who spend down savings and investments because of care and exhaust their assets. Each state has its own guidelines and eligibility requirements. In most states, you can keep up to $2,000 as an individual and $3,000 for a married couple outside of your countable assets, which include checking and savings account balances, CDs, stocks, and bonds. Your home, car, personal belongings, or savings for funeral expenses don't count as assets.



Long-term care insurance usually covers all or part of assisted living facilities and in-home care. Medicaid rarely does. Full home care coverage is an option with long-term care insurance. It will cover expenses for a visiting or live-in caregiver, companion, housekeeper, therapist or private-duty nurse up to seven days a week, 24 hours per day, up to the policy benefit maximum.






Most long-term care policies will cover only a specific dollar amount for each day you spend in a nursing facility or for each home-care visit. So when considering a policy, read the fine print carefully and compare the benefits to determine which policy will best meet your own needs.


   Special Considerations  

Many experts suggest shopping for long-term care insurance between the ages of 45 and 55, as part of an overall retirement plan to protect assets from the high costs and burdens of extended healthcare. Long-term care insurance is also cheaper if you buy it younger. In 2021, the average annual premium for a couple, both 55 years old, was $2,080, according to the American Association for Long-Term Care Insurance.



Long-term care insurance premiums can be tax deductible if the policy is tax-qualified and the policyholder itemizes tax deductions, among other factors. Usually, companies that pay long-term care premiums for an employee can deduct them as a business expense.






While premiums can cost less if you buy a policy at a younger age, you will be paying for coverage many years before you are likely to need it. So weigh your options carefully.



Due to the high cost of this product, a number of alternative ways of paying for health needs in later years have come on the market. They include critical illness insurance and annuities with long-term care riders. Think through what would make the most sense for you and your family—especially if you're a couple with a significant age or health difference that could affect your lives going forward.



If you don't have a financial advisor, this could be a reason to hire one who specializes in eldercare issues to work through these issues with you. If you can bear to face them, it makes sense to do your best to shape your own future, instead of leaving it to family members in the flurry of a health emergency.
What Is Long-Term Debt?  

Long-term debt is debt that matures in more than one year. Long-term debt can be viewed from two perspectives: financial statement reporting by the issuer and financial investing. In financial statement reporting, companies must record long-term debt issuance and all of its associated payment obligations on its financial statements. On the flip side, investing in long-term debt includes putting money into debt investments with maturities of more than one year.





Key Takeaways

Long-term debt is debt that matures in more than one year and is often treated differently from short-term debt.For an issuer, long-term debt is a liability that must be repaid while owners of debt (e.g., bonds) account for them as assets.Long-term debt liabilities are a key component of business solvency ratios, which are analyzed by stakeholders and rating agencies when assessing solvency risk.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Long-Term Debt  

Long-term debt is debt that matures in more than one year. Entities choose to issue long-term debt with various considerations, primarily focusing on the timeframe for repayment and interest to be paid. Investors invest in long-term debt for the benefits of interest payments and consider the time to maturity a liquidity risk. Overall, the lifetime obligations and valuations of long-term debt will be heavily dependent on market rate changes and whether or not a long-term debt issuance has fixed or floating rate interest terms.


   Why Companies Use Long-Term Debt Instruments  

A company takes on debt to obtain immediate capital. For example, startup ventures require substantial funds to get off the ground. This debt can take the form of promissory notes and serve to pay for startup costs such as payroll, development, IP legal fees, equipment, and marketing.



Mature businesses also use debt to fund their regular capital expenditures as well as new and expansion capital projects. Overall, most businesses need external sources of capital, and debt is one of these sources



Long-term debt issuance has a few advantages over short-term debt. Interest from all types of debt obligations, short and long, are considered a business expense that can be deducted before paying taxes. Longer-term debt usually requires a slightly higher interest rate than shorter-term debt. However, a company has a longer amount of time to repay the principal with interest.


   Financial Accounting for Long-Term Debt  

A company has a variety of debt instruments it can utilize to raise capital. Credit lines, bank loans, and bonds with obligations and maturities greater than one year are some of the most common forms of long-term debt instruments used by companies.



All debt instruments provide a company with cash that serves as a current asset. The debt is considered a liability on the balance sheet, of which the portion due within a year is a short term liability and the remainder is considered a long term liability.



Companies use amortization schedules and other expense tracking mechanisms to account for each of the debt instrument obligations they must repay over time with interest. If a company issues debt with a maturity of one year or less, this debt is considered short-term debt and a short-term liability, which is fully accounted for in the short-term liabilities section of the balance sheet.



When a company issues debt with a maturity of more than one year, the accounting becomes more complex. At issuance, a company debits assets and credits long-term debt. As a company pays back its long-term debt, some of its obligations will be due within one year, and some will be due in more than a year. Close tracking of these debt payments is required to ensure that short-term debt liabilities and long-term debt liabilities on a single long-term debt instrument are separated and accounted for properly. To account for these debts, companies simply notate the payment obligations within one year for a long-term debt instrument as short-term liabilities and the remaining payments as long-term liabilities.



In general, on the balance sheet, any cash inflows related to a long-term debt instrument will be reported as a debit to cash assets and a credit to the debt instrument. When a company receives the full principal for a long-term debt instrument, it is reported as a debit to cash and a credit to a long-term debt instrument. As a company pays back the debt, its short-term obligations will be notated each year with a debit to liabilities and a credit to assets. After a company has repaid all of its long-term debt instrument obligations, the balance sheet will reflect a canceling of the principal, and liability expenses for the total amount of interest required.


   Business Debt Efficiency  

Interest payments on debt capital carry over to the income statement in the interest and tax section. Interest is a third expense component that affects a company’s bottom line net income. It is reported on the income statement after accounting for direct costs and indirect costs. Debt expenses differ from depreciation expenses, which are usually scheduled with consideration for the matching principle. The third section of the income statement, including interest and tax deductions, can be an important view for analyzing the debt capital efficiency of a business. Interest on debt is a business expense that lowers a company’s net taxable income but also reduces the income achieved on the bottom line and can reduce a company’s ability to pay its liabilities overall. Debt capital expense efficiency on the income statement is often analyzed by comparing gross profit margin, operating profit margin, and net profit margin.



In addition to income statement expense analysis, debt expense efficiency is also analyzed by observing several solvency ratios. These ratios can include the debt ratio, debt to assets, debt to equity, and more. Companies typically strive to maintain average solvency ratio levels equal to or below industry standards. High solvency ratios can mean a company is funding too much of its business with debt and therefore is at risk of cash flow or insolvency problems.






Issuer solvency is an important factor in analyzing long-term debt default risks.


   Investing in Long-Term Debt  

Companies and investors have a variety of considerations when both issuing and investing in long-term debt. For investors, long-term debt is classified as simply debt that matures in more than one year. There are a variety of long-term investments an investor can choose from. Three of the most basic are U.S. Treasuries, municipal bonds, and corporate bonds.


  U.S. Treasuries  

Governments, including the U.S. Treasury, issue several short-term and long-term debt securities. The U.S. Treasury issues long-term Treasury securities with maturities of two-years, three-years, five-years, seven-years, 10-years, 20-years, and 30-years. 


  Municipal Bonds  

Municipal bonds are debt security instruments issued by government agencies to fund infrastructure projects. Municipal bonds are typically considered to be one of the debt market's lowest risk bond investments with just slightly higher risk than Treasuries. Government agencies can issue short-term or long-term debt for public investment.


  Corporate Bonds  

Corporate bonds have higher default risks than Treasuries and municipals. Like governments and municipalities, corporations receive ratings from rating agencies that provide transparency about their risks. Rating agencies focus heavily on solvency ratios when analyzing and providing entity ratings. Corporate bonds are a common type of long-term debt investment. Corporations can issue debt with varying maturities. All corporate bonds with maturities greater than one year are considered long-term debt investments.
What Is the Long-Term Debt to Capitalization Ratio?  

The long-term debt to capitalization ratio, a variation of the traditional debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio, shows the financial leverage of a firm. It is calculated by dividing long-term debt by total available capital (long-term debt, preferred stock, and common stock). Investors compare the financial leverage of firms to analyze the associated investment risk. High ratios indicate riskier investments, as debt is the primary source of financing and introduces a greater risk of insolvency.





Key Takeaways

Long-term debt to capitalization ratio is a solvency measure that shows the degree of financial leverage a firm takes on.It calculates the proportion of long-term debt a company uses to finance its assets, relative to the amount of equity used for the same purpose.A higher ratio result means that a company is more highly leveraged, which carries a higher risk of insolvency.


   Understanding Long-Term Debt to Capitalization Ratio  

To achieve a balanced capital structure, firms must analyze whether using debt, equity (stock), or both is feasible and suitable for their business. Financial leverage is a metric that shows how much a company uses debt to finance its operations. A company with a high level of leverage needs profits and revenue that are high enough to compensate for the additional debt they show on their balance sheet.



Long-term debt can be beneficial if a company anticipates strong growth and ample profits permitting on-time debt repayments. Lenders collect only their due interest and do not participate in profit sharing among equity holders, making debt financing sometimes a preferred funding source. On the other hand, long-term debt can impose great financial strain on struggling companies and possibly lead to insolvency.


   Long-Term Debt and Cost of Capital  

Contrary to intuitive understanding, using long-term debt can help lower a company's total cost of capital. Lenders establish terms that are not predicated on the borrower's financial performance; therefore, they are only entitled to what is due according to the agreement (e.g., principal and interest). When a company finances with equity, it must share profits proportionately with equity holders, commonly referred to as shareholders. Financing with equity appears attractive and may be the best solution for many companies; however, it is quite an expensive endeavor.


   Financing Risk  

When the amount of long-term debt relative to the sum of all capital has become a dominant funding source, it may increase financing risk. Long-term debt is often compared with debt service coverage to see how many times total debt payments have exceeded a company's operating income or earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Uncertainty increases that future debts will be covered when total debt payments frequently exceed operating income. A balanced capital structure takes advantage of low-cost debt financing.
What Is the Long-Term Debt-to-Total-Assets Ratio?  

The long-term debt-to-total-assets ratio is a measurement representing the percentage of a corporation's assets financed with long-term debt, which encompasses loans or other debt obligations lasting more than one year. This ratio provides a general measure of the long-term financial position of a company, including its ability to meet its financial obligations for outstanding loans.


   The Formula for the Long-Term Debt-to-Total-Assets Ratio  

﻿




L


T


D


/


T


A


=




Long-Term Debt




Total Assets





LTD/TA = \dfrac{ \textit{Long-Term Debt}}{\textit{Total Assets}}


LTD/TA=Total AssetsLong-Term Debt​﻿












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   What Does the Long-Term Debt-to-Total-Assets Ratio Tell You?  

A year-over-year decrease in a company's long-term debt-to-total-assets ratio may suggest that it is becoming progressively less dependent on debt to grow its business. Although a ratio result that is considered indicative of a "healthy" company varies by industry, generally speaking, a ratio result of less than 0.5 is considered good.





Key Takeaways

The long-term debt-to-total-assets ratio is a coverage or solvency ratio used to calculate the amount of a company's leverage.The ratio result shows the percentage of a company's assets it would have to liquidate to repay its long-term debt.Recalculating the ratio over several time periods can reveal trends in a company's choice to finance assets with debt instead of equity and its ability to repay its debt over time.


   Example of Long-Term Debt to Assets Ratio  

If a company has $100,000 in total assets with $40,000 in long-term debt, its long-term debt-to-total-assets ratio is $40,000/$100,000 = 0.4, or 40%. This ratio indicates that the company has 40 cents of long-term debt for each dollar it has in assets. In order to compare the overall leverage position of the company, investors look at the same ratio for comparable firms, the industry as a whole, and the company's own historical changes in this ratio.



If a business has a high long-term debt-to-assets ratio, it suggests the business has a relatively high degree of risk, and eventually, it may not be able to repay its debts. This makes lenders more skeptical about loaning the business money and investors more leery about buying shares.



In contrast, if a business has a low long-term debt-to-assets ratio, it can signify the relative strength of the business. However, the assertions an analyst can make based on this ratio vary based on the company's industry as well as other factors, and for this reason, analysts tend to compare these numbers between companies from the same industry.


   The Difference Between Long-Term Debt-to-Asset and Total Debt-to-Asset Ratios  

While the long-term debt to assets ratio only takes into account long-term debts, the total-debt-to-total-assets ratio includes all debts. This measure takes into account both long-term debts, such as mortgages and securities, and current or short-term debts such as rent, utilities, and loans maturing in less than 12 months.



Both ratios, however, encompass all of a business's assets, including tangible assets such as equipment and inventory and intangible assets such as accounts receivables. Because the total debt-to-assets ratio includes more of a company's liabilities, this number is almost always higher than a company's long-term debt to assets ratio.
What Are Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities (LEAPS)?  

The term long-term equity anticipation securities (LEAPS) refers to publicly traded options contracts with expiration dates that are longer than one year, and typically up to three years from issue. They are functionally identical to most other listed options, except with longer times until expiration.



A LEAPS contract grants a buyer the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell (depending on if the option is a call or a put, respectively) the underlying asset at the predetermined price on or before its expiration date.





Key Takeaways

Long-term equity anticipation securities are listed options contracts that expire in more than a year.These contracts are ideal for options traders looking to trade a prolonged trend.LEAPS can be listed on a particular stock or an index as a whole.They are often used in hedging strategies and can be particularly effective for protecting retirement portfolios.The premiums for LEAPS are higher than those for standard options in the same stock, but lower than the cost of shares of the underlying stock.


   Understanding Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities (LEAPS)  

LEAPS are no different from short-term options, except for the later expiration dates. Lengthier times until maturity allow long-term investors to gain exposure to prolonged price movements. As with many short-term options contracts, investors pay a premium or upfront fee for the ability to buy or sell above or below the option's strike price. The strike is the decided-upon price for the underlying asset at which it converts at expiry.



For example, a $25 strike price for a GE call option would mean an investor could buy 100 shares of GE at $25 at expiry. The investor will exercise the $25 option if the market price is higher than the strike price. Should it be less, the investor will allow the option to expire and will lose the price paid for the premium. Also, remember each put or call options contract equates to 100 shares of the underlying asset.



Investors must understand that they will be tying funds up in these long-term contracts. Changes in the market interest rate and market or asset volatility may make these options more or less valuable, depending on the holding and the direction of movement.


   Index LEAPS  

A market index is a theoretical portfolio made up of several underlying assets that represent a market segment, industry, or other groups of securities. There are LEAPS available for equity indexes. Similar to the single stock LEAPS, index LEAPS allow investors to hedge and invest in indices such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500).



Index LEAPS give the holder the ability to track the entire stock market or specific industry sectors and take a bullish stance using call options or a bearish stance using put options. Investors could also hedge their portfolios against adverse market moves with index LEAPS puts.


   LEAPS Premiums  

Premiums are the non-refundable cost associated with an options contract. The premiums for LEAPS are higher than those for standard options in the same stock because the further out expiration date gives the underlying asset more time to make a substantial move and for the investor to make a healthy profit. Known as the time value, option marketplaces use this lengthy timeframe and the intrinsic value of the contract to determine the value of the option.



Intrinsic value is the calculated or estimated value of how likely the option is to make a profit based on the difference between the asset's market and strike price. This value may include profit that already exists in the contract before purchase. The contract writer will use fundamental analysis of the underlying asset or business to help place the intrinsic value.



As mentioned earlier, the option contract has a basis of 100 shares of the asset. So, if the premium for Meta (META), formerly Facebook, is $6.25, the option buyer will pay $625 total premium ($6.25 x 100 = $625).



Other factors that can affect the premium price include the volatility of the stock, the market interest rate, and if the asset returns dividends. Finally, throughout the life of the contract, the option will have a theoretical value derived from the use of various pricing models. This fluctuating price indicates what the holder may receive if they sell their contract to another investor before expiration.






LEAPS were first introduced by the Cboe in 1990, and are now ubiquitous.


   Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities vs. Shorter-Term Contracts  

LEAPS also allow investors to gain access to the long-term options market without needing to use a combination of shorter-term option contracts. Short-term options have a maximum expiration date of one year. Without LEAPS, investors who wanted a two-year option would have to buy a one-year option, let it expire, and simultaneously purchase a new one-year options contract.



This process, which is called rolling contracts over, would expose the investor to market changes in the prices of the underlying asset as well as additional option premiums. LEAPS provide the longer-term trader with exposure to a prolonged trend in a particular security with one trade.


   Types of LEAPS  
  Calls  

Equity LEAPS call options allow investors to benefit from potential rises in a specific stock while using less capital than purchasing shares with cash upfront. In other words, the cost of the premium for an option is lower than the cash needed to buy 100 shares outright. Similar to short-term call options, LEAPS calls allow investors to exercise their options by purchasing the shares of the underlying stock at the strike price.



Another advantage of LEAPS calls is that they let the holder sell the contract at any time before the expiration. The difference in premiums between the purchase and sale prices can lead to a profit or loss. Investors must also include any fees or commissions charged by their broker to buy or sell the contract.


  Puts  

LEAPS puts provide investors with a long-term hedge if they own the underlying stock. Put options gain in value as an underlying stock's price declines, potentially offsetting the losses incurred for owning shares of the stock. In essence, the put can help cushion the blow of falling asset prices.



For example, an investor who owns shares of Company XYZ and wishes to hold them for the long term might be fearful that the stock price could fall. To allay these concerns, the investor could purchase LEAPS puts on XYZ to hedge against unfavorable moves in the long stock position. LEAPS puts help investors benefit from price declines without the need to short sell shares of the underlying stock.



Short selling involves borrowing shares from a broker and selling them with the expectation that the stock will continue to depreciate by expiry. At expiry, the shares are purchased—hopefully at a lower price—and the position is netted out for a gain or loss. However, short selling can be extremely risky if the stock price rises instead of falling, leading to significant losses.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of LEAPS  

There are several key benefits and drawbacks of investing in long-term equity anticipation securities. We've listed some of the main ones below.


  Advantages  

The long timeframe of a LEAPS contract allows you to sell the option.You can use a LEAPS contract to hedge your bets against fluctuations in your overall long-term portfolio.There are plenty of LEAPS options available for investors who want to invest in equity indices, which means that you can hedge your bets against any drastic moves in the market. And by doing so, you can also take a bearish or bullish stance on the market as a whole rather than individual equities.The prices for LEAPS are not as sensitive to the movement of the underlying asset. If the underlying asset's price changes, the price for the contract won't necessarily make a big move itself.


  Disadvantages  

The premiums for LEAPS are much costlier than other types of investments.Because you're investing your money for the long term, your money is tied and locked up for the duration of the contract. This means that if you find another great investment opportunity, you may not be able to take advantage of it.You may be susceptible to adverse movements in the market or individual companies, which can affect your overall position.The prices for LEAPS are highly sensitive and subject to market volatility and interest rate fluctuations.





Pros

Long time frame allows selling of the option
Used to hedge a long-term holding or portfolio
Available for equity indices
Prices less sensitive to the movement of the underlying



Cons

Costlier premiums
Long time frame ties up the investment dollars
Markets or company movements may be adverse
Prices more sensitive to changes in volatility and interest rates





   Real-World Example of LEAPS  

Let's say an investor holds a portfolio of securities, which primarily includes the S&P 500 constituents. The investor believes there may be a market correction within the next two years and, as a result, purchases index LEAPS puts on the S&P 500 Index to hedge against adverse moves.



The investor buys a December 2021 LEAPS put option with a strike price of 3,000 for the S&P 500 and pays $300 upfront for the right to sell the index shares at 3,000 on the option's expiration date.



If the index falls below 3,000 by expiry, the stock holdings in the portfolio will likely fall, but the LEAPS put will increase in value, helping to offset the loss in the portfolio. However, if the S&P 500 rises, the LEAPS put option will expire worthless, and the investor would be out the $300 premium.




Are LEAPS a Good Investment?
LEAPS are simply long-date call or put options listed on stocks or indexes. As such, they will have higher initial premiums than shorter-dated options and lose value over time, all else equal. Like any investment, LEAPS will change in value - in the case of a call, it will rise and fall along with the underlying security (and for a put, inversely). For some investors, LEAPS may provide a more affordable way to take a long position than purchasing the actual stock.




When Should You Buy LEAPS?
If you have a medium-term time horizon, then a LEAPS call may be a good speculative bet on a stock that you think will rise. You can also buy LEAPS puts as a medium-term downside hedge against existing positions.




Can You Lose Money With LEAPS?
Yes, LEAPS involve risk and you can lose up to your full investment when purchasing one if it ultimately expires worthless. Selling LEAPS is also risky as you are exposed to theoretically unlimited losses if the underlying security moves against you.




Do You Pay Taxes on LEAPS?
Yes, when LEAPS are sold at a profit, the gain is taxable. If the LEAP contract was held for at least one year and one day, the taxpayer will be taxed at the long-term capital gain rate. If the contract was held for shorter, the taxpayer will be taxed at a short-term capital gain rate.




What Is the Downside of LEAPS?
There are several specific downsides to LEAPS. Most often, investors that buy LEAPS must put up more capital upfront at the beginning of the contract to pay for the initial premium. In addition, because they have more time until expiration, LEAPS often cost more than traditional options.


   The Bottom Line  

Launched in 1990 by the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) to meet investor demand, LEAPS are now a mainstay of options trading. LEAPS, which stand for Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities, are simply listed equity call and put options that have initial expiration dates that are greater than one year, and up to 39 months into the future. As with all options, LEAPS come with unique risks and investors should understand the potential risks and rewards of trading in them.
What Is Long-Term Growth (LTG)?  

Long-term growth (LTG) is an investment strategy that aims to increase the value of a portfolio over a multi-year time frame.





Key Takeaways

Long-term growth (LTG) is an investment strategy that aims to increase the value of a portfolio over a multi-year time frame.Although long-term is relative to an investors’ time horizons and individual style, generally long-term growth is meant to create above-market returns over a period of ten years or more. LTG portfolios can be more aggressive and might have a ratio of 80% stocks to 20% bonds.


   Understanding Long-Term Growth (LTG)  

Although long-term is relative to an investors’ time horizons and individual style, generally LTG is meant to create above-market returns over a period of ten years or more.



Because of the longer time frame, LTG portfolios can be more aggressive, holding a larger percentage of stocks versus fixed-income products such as bonds. Whereas an intermediate-term balanced fund might have 60% stocks to 40% bonds, a LTG fund might have 80% stocks and 20% bonds.



LTG is meant to do exactly what it says—deliver portfolio growth over time. The catch is that the growth can be uneven. A LTG portfolio may underperform the market in the first years and then outperform later, or vice versa.



This is a problem for investors in a LTG fund. Even if a fund delivers good average growth over a decade, for example, the performance year to year will vary. Therefore, investors can have very different outcomes depending on when they buy into the fund and how long they hold. Timing investments is, of course, a problem facing every market participant and not just LTG fund investors.


   Long-Term Growth (LTG) and Value Investing  

The core advantage to LTG is that short-term price fluctuations are not of major concern. Similarly, many value investors focus on stocks with LTG potential, searching for companies that are relatively inexpensive with strong fundamentals. Then they simply wait until they increase in value as the market catches on to their fundamental strength before selling.



Individual investors often benefit from a LTG focus, and that may lead them toward value investing as a strategy. However, LTG simply refers to the longer period over which returns are sought, not a particular investment style such as value investing.



Long-term funds are just as likely to buy the market through various indexing products as they are to seek out undervalued stocks. Value investing, in particular, can be difficult for fund managers to stick to for the long term.



Although investors in LTG funds are told to expect a decent average return over multiple years, less patient investors are free to pull out unless the fund has a lock-up period—something that is usually found in hedge or private funds. If a typical LTG fund has too many mediocre years, then capital will start to leave as investors seek better market returns. This can force a fund to prematurely trim holdings before the market value catches up with the intrinsic value of the stocks.
What Is a Long-Term Incentive Plan?  

A long-term incentive plan (LTIP) is a company policy that rewards employees for reaching specific goals that lead to increased shareholder value. 



In a typical LTIP, the employee, usually an executive, must fulfill various conditions or requirements. In some forms of LTIPs, recipients receive special capped options in addition to stock awards.


   Understanding Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)  

A long-term incentive plan (LTIP), while geared toward employees, is really a function of the business itself striving for long-term growth. When objectives in a company's growth plan match those of the company's LTIP, key employees know which performance factors to focus on for improving the business and earning more personal compensation.



The incentive plan helps retain top talent in a highly competitive work environment as the business continues evolving in predetermined and potentially lucrative directions.


   Types of LTIPs  

One type of LTIP is the 401(k) retirement plan. When a business matches a percentage of an employee's paycheck going into the plan, employees are more likely to work for the company until retirement.



The business typically has a vesting schedule that determines the value of retirement account contributions a worker may take when leaving the company. A business typically retains part of its contributions over the first five years of a worker's employment. Once an employee is fully vested, they own all of their retirement plan contributions moving forward.



Stock options are another type of LTIP. After a set length of employment, workers may be able to purchase company stock at a discount while the employer pays the balance. The worker's seniority in the organization increases with the percentage of shares owned.



In other cases, the business may give restricted stock to employees. For example, the employee may have to surrender gifted stock if resigning within three years of receiving it. For each year going forward, the worker may have rights to another 25% of the gifted stock. After five years of receiving restricted stock, the employee is usually fully vested.


   Example of an LTIP  

In June 2016, the board of directors of Konecranes PLC agreed to a new share-based LTIP for key employees. The plan provided competitive rewards based on earning and accumulating shares of the company.



The LTIP had a discretionary period of calendar year 2016. Potential rewards were based on continual employment or service and on Konecranes Group's adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Rewards were to be paid partly in Konecranes shares and partly in cash by the end of August 2017. The cash was intended to be used to cover taxes and related costs.



Shares paid under the plan could not be transferred during the restriction period, beginning when the reward was paid and ending on Dec. 31, 2018.
What Are Long-Term Investments?  

A long-term investment is an account on the asset side of a company's balance sheet that represents the company's investments, including stocks, bonds, real estate, and cash. Long-term investments are assets that a company intends to hold for more than a year.



The long-term investment account differs largely from the short-term investment account in that short-term investments will most likely be sold, whereas the long-term investments will not be sold for years and, in some cases, may never be sold.



Being a long-term investor means that you are willing to accept a certain amount of risk in pursuit of potentially higher rewards and that you can afford to be patient for a longer period of time. It also suggests that you have enough capital available to afford to tie up a set amount for a long period of time.





Key Takeaways

A long-term investment is an account a company plans to keep for at least a year such as stocks, bonds, real estate, and cash.The account appears on the asset side of a company's balance sheet.Long-term investors are generally willing to take on more risk for higher rewards.These are different from short-term investments, which are meant to be sold within a year.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Long-Term Investments Explained  

A common form of long-term investing occurs when company A invests largely in company B and gains significant influence over company B without having a majority of the voting shares. In this case, the purchase price would be shown as a long-term investment.



When a holding company or other firm purchases bonds or shares of common stock as investments, the decision about whether to classify it as short-term or long-term has some fairly important implications for the way those assets are valued on the balance sheet. Short-term investments are marked to market, and any declines in value are recognized as a loss.



However, increases in value are not recognized until the item is sold. Therefore, the balance sheet classification of investment—whether it is long-term or short-term—has a direct impact on the net income that is reported on the income statement.


   Held to Maturity Investments  

If an entity intends to keep an investment until it has matured and the company can demonstrate the ability to do so, the investment is noted as being "held to maturity." The investment is recorded at cost, although any premiums or discounts are amortized over the life of the investment.



For example, a classic held to maturity investment was the purchase of PayPal by eBay in 2002. Once PayPal had significantly grown its infrastructure and user base, it was then spun out as its own company in 2015 with a five-year agreement to continue processing payments for eBay. This investment helped PayPal grow and at the same time allowed eBay the benefit of owning a world-class payment processing solution for nearly two decades.



The long-term investment may be written down to properly reflect an impaired value. However, there may not be any adjustment for temporary market fluctuations. Since investments must have an end date, equity securities may be not be classified as held to maturity.


   Available for Sale and Trading Investments  

Investments held with the intention of resale within a year, for the purpose of garnering a short-term profit, are classified as current investments. A trading investment may not be a long-term investment. However, a company may hold an investment with the intention to sell in the future.



These investments are classified as "available for sale" as long as the anticipated sale date is not within the next 12 months. Available for sale long-term investments are recorded at cost when purchased and subsequently adjusted to reflect their fair values at the end of the reporting period. Unrealized holding gains or losses are kept as "other comprehensive income" until the long-term investment has been sold.
What Are Long-Term Liabilities?  

Long-term liabilities are a company's financial obligations that are due more than one year in the future. The current portion of long-term debt is listed separately on the balance sheet to provide a more accurate view of a company's current liquidity and the company’s ability to pay current liabilities as they become due. Long-term liabilities are also called long-term debt or noncurrent liabilities.





Key Takeaways

Long-term liabilities are due more than one year in the future.They are separately identified on the balance sheet.While short-term liabilities must be paid with current assets, long-term liabilities can be repaid through a variety of current and future business activities.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Long-Term Liabilities  

Long-term liabilities are listed in the balance sheet after more current liabilities, in a section that may include debentures, loans, deferred tax liabilities, and pension obligations. Long-term liabilities are obligations not due within the next 12 months or within the company’s operating cycle if it is longer than one year. A company’s operating cycle is the time it takes to turn its inventory into cash.



However, there are some exceptions to this general rule. If a company has current liabilities that are being refinanced into long-term liabilities, the intent to refinance is present, and there is evidence that the refinancing has begun, then it may report current liabilities as long-term liabilities because after the refinancing, the obligations are no longer due within 12 months. Additionally, a liability that is coming due may be reported as a long-term liability if it has a corresponding long-term investment intended to be used as payment for the debt . However, the long-term investment must have sufficient funds to cover the debt.


   Examples of Long-Term Liabilities  

The long-term portion of a bond payable is reported as a long-term liability. Because a bond typically covers many years, the majority of a bond payable is long term. The present value of a lease payment that extends past one year is a long-term liability. Deferred tax liabilities typically extend to future tax years, in which case they are considered a long-term liability. Mortgages, car payments, or other loans for machinery, equipment, or land are long-term liabilities, except for the payments to be made in the coming 12 months.





Tip

The portion of a long-term liability, such as a mortgage, that is due within one year is classified on the balance sheet as a current portion of long-term debt.


   How Long-Term Liabilities are Used  

Long-term liabilities are a useful tool for management analysis in the application of financial ratios. The current portion of long-term debt is separated out because it needs to be covered by liquid assets, such as cash. Long-term debt can be covered by various activities such as a company's primary business net income, future investment income, or cash from new debt agreements.



Debt ratios (such as solvency ratios) compare liabilities to assets. The ratios may be modified to compare the total assets to long-term liabilities only. This ratio is called long-term debt to assets. Long-term debt compared to total equity provides insight relating to a company’s financing structure and financial leverage. Long-term debt compared to current liabilities also provides insight regarding the debt structure of an organization.




What Are Long-Term and Short-Term Liabilities?
Long-term liabilities are typically due more than a year in the future. Examples of long-term liabilities include mortgage loans, bonds payable, and other long-term leases or loans, except the portion due in the current year. Short-term liabilities are due within the current year. Examples of short-term liabilities include accounts payable, accrued expenses, and the current portion of long-term debt.




What Is the Current Portion of Long-Term Debt?
The current portion of long-term debt is the portion of a long-term liability that is due in the current year. For example, a mortgage is long-term debt because it is typically due over 15 to 30 years. However, your mortgage payments that are due in the current year are the current portion of long-term debt. They should be listed separately on the balance sheet because these liabilities must be covered with current assets.




Where Are Long-Term Liabilities Listed on the Balance Sheet?
A balance sheet presents a company's assets, liabilities, and equity at a given date in time. The company's assets are listed first, liabilities second, and equity third. Long-term liabilities are presented after current liabilities in the liability section.


   The Bottom Line  

Long-term liabilities or debt are those obligations on a company's books that are not due without the next 12 months. Loans for machinery, equipment, or land are examples of long-term liabilities, whereas rent, for example, is a short-term liability that must be paid within the year. A company's long-term debt can be compared to other economic measures to analyze its debt structure and financial leverage.
What Is Longitudinal Data?  

Longitudinal data, sometimes called panel data, is data that is collected through a series of repeated observations of the same subjects over some extended time frame—and is useful for measuring change. Longitudinal data effectively follows the same sample over time, which differs fundamentally from cross-sectional data because it follows the same subjects over some time, while cross-sectional data samples different subjects (whether individuals, firms, countries, or regions) at each point in time. Meanwhile, a cross-sectional data set will always draw a new random sample.



Longitudinal data is used widely in the social sciences, including among economists, political scientists, and sociologists.





Key Takeaways

Longitudinal data is data that is collected sequentially from the same respondents over time.This type of data can be very important in tracking trends and changes over time by asking the same respondents questions in several waves carried out of time.Longitudinal data is used in finance to track company profitability, risk, and to understand the effect of economic shocks.


   Understanding Longitudinal Data  

Often, analysts are interested in how things change over time. In a typical cross-sectional sample, even if you measure some variable today and then again a year from now, you will probably be sampling different people each time. To get a better handle on how things change for the same people over time, you need to be able to track them and follow up with them a year from now, and in future waves. This is longitudinal data.



Longitudinal data is often used in economic and financial studies because it has several advantages over repeated cross-sectional data. For example, because longitudinal data measures how long events last, it can be used to see if the same group of individuals remain unemployed during a recession, or whether different individuals are moving in and out of unemployment. This can help determine the factors that most affect unemployment.


   Applications of Longitudinal Data  

Longitudinal analysis can also be used to calculate a portfolio’s value at risk (VaR), using the historic simulation method. This simulates how the value of the current portfolio would have fluctuated over previous time periods, using the observed historical fluctuations of the assets in the portfolio during those times. It provides an estimate of the maximum likely loss over the next time period.



Longitudinal data is also used in event studies to analyze what factors drive abnormal stock returns over time, or how stock prices react to merger and earnings announcements. It can also be used to measure poverty and income inequality by tracking individual households. And because standardized test scores in schools are longitudinal, they can be used to assess teacher effectiveness and other factors affecting student performance.



Social scientists also use longitudinal data to try to understand causation of events that may have occurred in the past and how they lead to outcomes observed in later waves of the data. For instance, the effect of the passage a new law on crime statistics, or a natural disaster on births and deaths years later.
What Are Look-Alike Contracts?  

Look-alike contracts are a cash-settled financial product based on the settlement price of a similar exchange-traded, physically settled futures contract. Look-alike contracts are traded over the counter and they carry no risk of actual physical delivery regardless of the terms of the underlying futures contract.



Futures look-alike contracts are regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).





Key Takeaways


A look-alike contract is an OTC derivatives contract that is cash-settled that has otherwise similar specifications to a physically settled futures contract.
Because physical settlement is not an issue, traders do not have to worry about closing out open positions to avoid making or taking delivery.
Critics argue that look-alike contracts fuel speculation and generate market inefficiencies since they are removed from the underlying asset that they track.



   Understanding Look-Alike Contracts  

Look-alike contracts are essentially options where the underlying is a futures contract with a specific settlement date. For example, the ICE Brent Crude American-style Option Product has an ICE Brent Crude Futures Contract as its underlying. The contract terms of a look-alike contract closely correspond with the contract terms of the futures contract. Look-alike contracts may be offered in both American and European styles.


   Look-Alike Contracts and Position Limits  

Where look-alike contracts get interesting is when they cover contracts traded on other exchanges, allowing the exchange to capture some of the trading activity on a commodity they are not known for. This allows some of the pure risk speculation to take place away from the actuals in the underlying futures contracts.



Moreover, since none of the physical commodities are involved with the look-alike contract trading, the position limits meant to temper commodity speculation can be skirted.


   Criticisms of Look-Alike Contracts  

Like many derivative products, look-alike contracts have their share of detractors. The main purpose of the futures market is traditionally to aid in price discovery and allow supply and demand risks to be hedged or offloaded onto parties better prepared to handle them.



Look-alike contracts leave the physical commodity behind by being a derivative of a derivative. Instead of influencing the price of oil, for example, look-alike contracts allow traders to bet against one another while arguably providing no new market price signals. Traders of look-alike contracts do argue that last point, as they are market participants so the volume and open interest of their speculation gives market information on their opinions on the price performance of the underlying futures contract.



Former CME Group CEO, Craig Donohue called look-alike contracts “parasitic, second-order” derivatives in 2011. At the time, of course, ICE was aggressively creating look-alike contracts using CME-traded futures as a benchmark. The rivalry between the two exchanges no doubt colored his opinions. All in all, look-alike contracts are no different than other over-the-counter products in that they allow high-level market participants to make bets with money they are prepared to risk in a very specific way.




What Are Futures Contracts?
Futures, or futures contracts, are agreements to purchase a certain commodity at a certain price at a predetermined date. They are used to lock in future income and reduce exposure to volatility.




What Are Index Futures?
Index futures are futures contracts that allow traders to buy a sell a contract that is based on the value of a stock market index at a predetermined date. Traders use these futures to speculate on the future movements of market indexes.




What Is an Inverted Futures Market?
An inverted futures market refers to a market where contracts that are nearing maturity have a higher market price than far-maturity contracts. In a normal market, futures prices are higher for contracts that are further from maturity. An inverted market may be caused by disruptions in the supply of an underlying commodity.


   The Bottom Line  

Look-alike contracts are derivatives of an exchange-traded futures contract. Unlike the underlying futures, look-alikes are traded over the counter and have no risk of actual delivery. However, these derivatives have been criticized as being speculative vehicles that do not contribute to price discovery.
What Is a Lookback Option?  

A lookback option allows the holder to exercise an option at the most beneficial price of the underlying asset, over the life of the option. 





Key Takeaways

Lookback options are exotic options that allow a buyer to minimize regret.Lookback options are only available "over-the-counter" (OTC) and not on any of the major exchanges.Lookback options are expensive to establish and the potential profits are often nullified by the costs.Fixed strike lookback option solves the market exit problem—the best time to get out, while the floating strike lookback option solves the market entry problem—the best time to get in.


   Understanding Lookback Options  

Also known as a hindsight option, a lookback option allows the holder the advantage of knowing history when determining when to exercise their option. This type of option reduces uncertainties associated with the timing of market entry and reduces the chances the option will expire worthless. Lookback options are expensive to execute, so these advantages come at a cost.



As a type of exotic option, the lookback allows the user to "look back," or review, the prices of an underlying asset over the lifespan of the option after it has been purchased. The holder may then exercise the option based on the most beneficial price of the underlying asset. The holder can take advantage of the widest differential between the strike price and the price of the underlying asset. Lookback options do not trade on major exchanges. Instead, they are unlisted and trade over-the-counter (OTC).



Lookback options are cash-settled options, which means the holder receives a cash settlement at execution based on the most advantageous differential between high and low prices during the purchase period. Sellers of lookback options would price the option at or near the widest expected distance of price differential based on past volatility and demand for the options. The cost to purchase this option would be taken up front. The settlement will equate to the profits they could have made from buying or selling the underlying asset. If the settlement was greater than the initial cost of the option, then the option buyer would have a profit at settlement, otherwise a loss.


   Fixed vs. Floating Lookback Options  

When using a fixed strike lookback option, the strike price is set or fixed at purchase, similar to most other types of option trades. Unlike other options, however, at the time of exercise, the most beneficial price of the underlying asset over the life of the contract is used instead of the current market price. In the case of a call, the option holder can review the price history and choose to exercise at the point of highest return potential.



For a put option, the holder may execute at the asset's lowest price point to realize the greatest gain. The option contract settles at the selected past market price and against the fixed strike.



When using a floating strike lookback option, the strike price is set automatically at maturity to the most favorable underlying price reached during the contract's life. Call options fix the strike at the lowest underlying asset price. Adversely, put options fix the strike at the highest price point. The option will then settle against the market price calculating the profit or loss against the floating strike.



The fixed strike option solves the market exit problem—the best time to get out. The floating strike solves the market entry problem—the best time to get in.


   Examples of Lookback Options  

In example number one, if you assume a stock trades at $50 at both the start and end of the three-month option contract, so there is no net change, gain, or loss. The path of the stock will be the same for both the fixed and floating strike versions. At one point during the life of the option, the highest price is $60, and the lowest price is $40.  



For a fixed strike lookback option, the strike price is $50. The best price during the lifespan is $60. At strike, the stock is $50. The profit for the call holder is $60 - 50 = $10.For a floating strike lookback option, the lowest price during the lifespan is $40. At maturity, the stock is $50, which is the strike price. The holder's profit is $50 - 40 = $10.



The profit is the same because the stock moved the same amount higher and lower during the life of the option.



In example number two, let's assume the stock had the same high of $60 and low of $40, but closed at the end of the contract at $55, for a net gain of $5.



For a fixed strike lookback option, the highest price is $60. The strike price is $50, which was set at purchase. Profit is $10 (60 - 50 = 10).For a floating strike lookback option, the strike price is $55, which is set at option maturity. The lowest price is $40. Making a profit of $15 (55 - 40 = 15).



Finally, in example number three, let's assume the stock closed at $45 for a net loss of $5. 



For a fixed strike lookback option, the highest price is $60. Less the strike price of $50, which was set at purchase. Gives a profit of $10 (60 - 50 = 10).For a floating strike lookback option, the strike price is $45, which is set at option maturity. Less the lowest price of $40, Gives a profit of $5 (45 - 40 = 5).
What Is a Loophole?  

A loophole is a technicality that allows a person or business to avoid the scope of a law or restriction without directly violating the law. Used often in discussions of taxes and their avoidance, loopholes provide ways for individuals and companies to remove income or assets from taxable situations into ones with lower taxes or none at all.



Loopholes are most prevalent in complex business deals involving tax issues, political issues, and legal statutes. They can be found within contract details, building codes, and tax codes, among others.





Key Takeaways

A loophole is basically a technicality that allows one to escape violating the law through some activity.Common loopholes are found in taxes and avoiding taxes, as well as with political issues such as political donations.Most loopholes are closed over time, but some remain open because powerful actors lobby to maintain them.


   How a Loophole Works  

A person or company utilizing a loophole isn't considered to be breaking the law but circumventing it in a way that was not intended by the regulators or legislators that put the law or restriction into place. The ability to circumvent the law is due to a flaw or defect in the legislation, often one that wasn’t obvious to those who originally drafted said law.



Most loopholes will close in time, as those who have the power to do so rewrite the rules to cut off the opportunity for loophole advantage. Some tax loopholes exist perennially, especially in nations like the United States where the intricate tax code amounts to tens of thousands of pages, which can lead to many opportunities for those seeking to exploit it.


   Examples of Loopholes  

For example, in the United States, federal law requires that commercial gun sales be subject to a background check. When a consumer wishes to buy a firearm from a commercial retailer, they must submit their information to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which compares the buyer’s name and birthdate against a database of individuals not allowed to buy a firearm.﻿﻿



However, an exception is made for private sales; under federal law, any private individual can sell any other private individual a gun without the need for a background check. ﻿﻿﻿This private sale exception has created what is known as the gun show loophole, which allows individuals in many states to purchase guns from gun shows, or through other private sales, without the need for a background check. As long as state law doesn’t require a background check for private gun sales (which it does in some states), neither buyer nor purchaser has broken the law.


  Wall Street Example of a Loophole  

If there's a loophole that involves large sums of money in the world of banking and finance, count on Wall Street—with all those sharp lawyers and accountants—to exploit it to the max and keep it going year after year. A prime example is the carried interest provision that allows private equity managers, venture capital investors, hedge fund managers, and real estate investors to pay a capital gains tax rate (presently 20%) instead of the higher ordinary income tax rate on the income earned from their day-to-day work activity.﻿﻿



This loophole has saved hundreds of millions in taxes for financiers such as Stephen Schwarzman, a public face of the private equity sector, and others like him who generously support their patrons in Washington, particularly if key leaders there happen to come from the real estate industry. For Wall Street, a lucrative loophole can be thought of as a "you scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours" kind of agreement.
What Is a Lorenz Curve?  

A Lorenz curve, developed by American economist Max Lorenz in 1905, is a graphical representation of income inequality or wealth inequality. The graph plots percentiles of the population on the horizontal axis according to income or wealth and plots cumulative income or wealth on the vertical axis.





Key Takeaways

A Lorenz curve is a graphical representation of the distribution of income or wealth within a population.Lorenz curves graph percentiles of the population against cumulative income or wealth of people at or below that percentile. Lorenz curves, along with their derivative statistics, are widely used to measure inequality across a population. The Lorenz curve is a central piece in calculating the Gini coefficient, a mathematical representation of inequality levels.Because Lorenz curves are mathematical estimates based on fitting a continuous curve to incomplete and discontinuous data, they may be imperfect measures of true inequality.


   Understanding the Lorenz Curve  

In practice, a Lorenz curve is usually a mathematical function estimated from an incomplete set of observations of income or wealth. The Lorenz curve is often accompanied by a straight diagonal line with a slope of 1, which represents perfect equality in income or wealth distribution; the Lorenz curve lies beneath it, showing the observed or estimated distribution.



While the Lorenz curve is most often used to represent economic inequality, it can also demonstrate unequal distribution in any system. The farther the curve is from the baseline, represented by the straight diagonal line, the higher the level of inequality. In economics, the Lorenz curve denotes inequality in the distribution of either wealth or income. These are not synonymous since it is possible to have either high earnings but zero or negative net worth, or low earnings but a large net worth. 



A Lorenz curve usually starts with an empirical measurement of wealth or income distribution across a population based on data such as tax returns, which report income for a large portion of the population. A graph of the data may be used directly as a Lorenz curve, or economists and statisticians may fit a curve that represents a continuous function to fill in any gaps in the observed data.






The closer the Lorenz curve is to the line of equality, the less inequality exists. The further the Lorenz curve is to the line of equality, the more inequality exists.


   Components of the Lorenz Curve  

The United States Federal Reserve collected net worth statistics from U.S. households. It then graphically depicted the inequality distribution of wealth. The latest data collected by the survey of consumer finances is from 2019. Per the Federal Reserve, the underlying data demonstrates that the bottom 50% of households hold just 1.5% of overall household wealth.



There are several important components to understand when analyzing a Lorenz curve:



The x-axis is often denoted as the percentile. In the graph above, the x-axis is the percentile of net worth ranking compared to other U.S. households.The y-axis is often denoted as the cumulative percentage of occurrences. In the graph above, the percentages represent the cumulative amount of net worth of households.The line of equality is demonstrated by a 45-degree, upward-sloping line. In the graph above, it is denoted as the dashed line.The Lorenz curve is demonstrated often by an upward-sloping but often exponentially rising curve. In the graph above, it is denoted as a solid line.The Gini coefficient (discussed below) is the gap between the line of equality and the Lorenz curve.















Lorenz Curve, U.S. Household Net Worth (2019).


   The Lorenz Curve and the Gini Coefficient  

The Gini coefficient is used to express the extent of inequality in a single figure. It most often ranges from 0 (or 0%) to 1 (or 100%). Complete equality, in which every individual has the exact same income or wealth, corresponds to a coefficient of 0. Plotted as a Lorenz curve, complete equality would be a straight diagonal line with a slope of 1 (the area between this curve and itself is 0, so the Gini coefficient is 0).



A coefficient of 1 means that one person earns all of the income or holds all of the wealth. In theory, the Gini coefficient can exceed 100% in extreme situations. For example, when handling negative wealth or income, the figure can theoretically be higher than 1; in that case, the Lorenz curve would dip below the horizontal axis.



The Gini coefficient is equal to the area below the line of perfect equality minus the area below the Lorenz curve, divided by the area below the line of perfect equality. In the graph above, the Gini coefficient is the area below the dashed line but above the solid line. The Gini coefficient is used to measure the extent of inequality. It can also be used to compare two different nations or countries to see which has more inequality.






For data sets demonstrating inequality, it may be difficult to property analyze certain sections of data. For example, the graph above has a very long left-skewed tail. This makes it difficult to exam changes in equality for this section of data.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Lorenz Curve  
  Advantages of the Lorenz Curve  

A Lorenz curve gives more detailed information about the exact distribution of wealth or income across a population than summary statistics such as the Gini coefficient or the Lorenz asymmetry coefficient. Because a Lorenz curve visually displays the distribution across each percentile (or other unit breakdowns), it can show precisely at which income (or wealth) percentiles the observed distribution varies from the line of equality and by how much.



The underlying data for a Lorenz curve is necessary to calculate the Gini coefficient, a primary means of mathematically measuring inequality. Assuming sufficient data can be collected, a Lorenz curve can be prepared for any geographical region (i.e. by country, by state, by city, etc.). This may be especially important for governments relying on a Lorenz curve to better understand how to most appropriately assess tax brackets.



Though the Lorenz curve often displays sensitive financial information, it also maintains the anonymity of the underlying surveyed individuals. In addition, the Lorenz curve can be layered on top of itself over time, demonstrating how public policy has changed the level of inequality at various points along the Lorenz curve.


  Disadvantages of the Lorenz Curve  

Because constructing a Lorenz curve involves fitting a continuous function to some incomplete set of data, there is no guarantee that the values along a Lorenz curve (other than those actually observed in the data) actually correspond to the true distributions of income. This is also true because it may be too expensive or demand too many resources to collect enough data points to fill all gaps.



Most of the points along the curve are just guesses based on the shape of the curve that best fits the observed data points. Therefore, the shape of the Lorenz curve can be sensitive to the quality and sample size of the data and to the mathematical assumptions and judgments as to what constitutes a best-fit curve, and these may represent sources of substantial error between the Lorenz curve and the actual distribution.



The Lorenz curve (or Gini coefficient) may also be insufficient to clearly demonstrate the extent of change of inequality over time. Consider a situation where two Gini coefficients are calculated to be the exact same. It is possible for the slope of the Lorenz curve to be radically different, yet the underlying aggregated inequality level is calculated to be the same.





Pros

Visually depicts inequality across a population in a manner easy to understand and analyze
Is used to help calculate the Gini coefficient, a primary mathematical mean of calculating inequality
May assist governments in making public policy changes or impacting tax bracket ranges based on income
Maintains anonymity of surveyed individuals
May be compiled to show how the curve has changed over time



Cons

Sample data may not appropriately reflect the overall population, therefore displaying an incorrect Lorenz curve
May require extensive data collection to adequately fill in the entire curve
May require estimation or preparer inference as to the curve to draw
May mislead analysts due to the varying shapes and sizes of the Gini coefficient area; different areas may be equal in size yet vary in appearance





   Lorenz Curve Example  





The curve above shows a continuous Lorenz curve that has been fitted to data that describes income distribution in Brazil as of 2020. The data set is also compared to a straight diagonal line representing perfect equality.



At the 55th income percentile, the value of the Lorenz curve is 22.39%. This means that the Lorenz curve estimates that the bottom 55% of the population takes in 22.39% of the nation’s total income. If Brazil were a perfectly equal society, the bottom 55% would earn 55% of the total.



Elsewhere, we can see that the 99th percentile corresponds to 89.32% in cumulative income. This means that the top 1% takes in 11.68% of Brazil’s income.



To find the approximate Gini coefficient, subtract the area beneath the Lorenz curve (around 0.25) from the area beneath the line of perfect equality (0.5 by definition). Divide the result by the area beneath the line of perfect equality, which yields a coefficient of around 0.5 or 50%. According to the World Bank, Brazil’s Gini coefficient was 48.9 in 2020.




Why Is the Lorenz Curve Important?
The Lorenz curve is important because it represents one of the best and simplest ways to illustrate the level of economic inequality in society. As the Lorenz curve moves away from the baseline, the underlying data suggests that the unequal distribution keeps increasing.




How Does the Lorenz Curve Measure Inequality?
The Lorenz curve is a graphical representation of the distribution of income or wealth in a society. Basically, the farther the curve moves from the baseline, represented by the straight diagonal line, the higher the level of inequality.




Who Uses Lorenz Curves?
Government agencies are especially interested in Lorenz curves, especially for net worth and income distributions within their country. Lorenz curves inform governments of how public policy is working (or not working). It may also be an indicator of how a government should establish its tax brackets based on gaps or ranges of income.




How Is a Lorenz Curve Calculated?
After collecting data from a relatively large sample size, a Lorenz curve is then fitted to best demonstrate the distribution of that data set. Because each set of information is different, there is no single universal curve formula, and the nonlinear regression will often look very different for different data sets.


   The Bottom Line  

A common method of visually analyzing inequality distributions is to use a Lorenz curve. The curve graphically depicts what a standard distribution of equality would look like. Then, the graph layers on the actual distribution of a given data set. The Lorenz curve is used to calculate the Gini coefficient to mathematically analyze how unequal a dataset is, and it is used to visually exam inequality levels as well.
What Is Loss Adjustment Expense?  

A loss adjustment expense (LAE) is a cost that insurance companies incur when investigating and settling an insurance claim.





Key Takeaways

A loss adjustment expense is a cost that insurance companies shoulder to investigate and settle insurance claims. Although loss adjustment expenses cut into an insurance company’s bottom line, they're incurred to avoid fraudulent claims.There are two types of loss adjustment expenses—allocated and unallocated.Allocated costs accumulate during active claim investigations; unallocated costs are part of the investigation overhead.Some loss adjustment expenses are recouped by insurance companies by requiring the policyholder to pay them.


   How Loss Adjustment Expense Works  

When an insurer receives a claim, it doesn't open its checkbook immediately. It first does its due diligence to ensure that the damages claimed by a policyholder are accurate. This involves an investigation of an incident and claim. The absence of an investigation could lead to losses from fraudulent claims. 



Loss adjustment expenses can include the costs of adjusters, investigators, attorneys, mediators, and more.



LAEs will vary widely depending upon how difficult a claim is to investigate. Even in cases where the LAE is high, insurance companies deem the expense worth it to avoid being bilked by fraudulent claims. The investigation of claims can be a deterrent to those who might file fraudulent claims for an easy payday.






Fraudulent insurance claims are believed to cost insurers billions of dollars. These claims drive up insurance premiums for the rest of the customers as insurance companies must count fraudulent claims in their cost of doing business.


   Special Considerations   

Some commercial liability policies contain endorsements that require policyholders to reimburse their insurance company for loss adjustment expenses.



It is important to carefully read the endorsement language, which may indicate that a loss adjustment expense doesn't include the policyholder’s attorney fees and costs if an insurer denies coverage and a policyholder successfully sues the insurer.



Thus, when there's no actual adjusting of the claim, the insurance company shouldn't be allowed to use its deductible to cover policyholder expenses incurred when the policyholder defends the claim dismissed by the insurance company.


   Using LAE to Calculate the Combined Ratio  

The combined ratio (also known as the combined ratio after policyholder dividends ratio) is one of the key profitability measures in the insurance industry. It measures profits earned through daily underwriting activities and excludes investment-related income. The calculation includes the LAE, as shown below.



Combined Ratio = (Incurred Losses + Loss Adjustment Expense (LAE) + Other Underwriting Expenses)/Earned Premiums



The combined ratio essentially compares expenses to revenue. A ratio below 100% means that the company is making an underwriting profit. A ratio above 100% indicates an underwriting loss. So when it comes to the combined ratio, the lower the result, the better.


  Example  

As you can see from the above formula, loss adjustment expense is one of the components used in the combined ratio formula. All things being equal, the higher the loss adjustment expense, the higher the company's combined ratio, and vice-versa.



Let's say, for example, insurance company ABC incurred underwriting losses of $5 million, loss adjustment expenses of $3 million, and $2 million in underwriting expenses in Q1 (for a total of $10 million dollars). In the same period, the company earned $11 million in premiums. Thus, ABC's combined ratio for the quarter is .91, or 91% ($10 million/$11 million). It's making a profit, as the $11 million in earned premiums outpaced the underwriting costs.






Generally speaking, a combined ratio in the range of 75%-90% over the long run is considered healthy.


   Types of Loss Adjustment Expense  

Loss-adjusted expenses that are allocated to a specific claim are called allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE), while expenses not allocated to a specific claim are called unallocated loss adjustment expenses (ULAE).



Allocated loss adjustment expenses occur when the insurance company pays for an investigator to survey claims made on a specific policy. Or, a driver with an automobile insurance policy may be required to take a damaged vehicle to an authorized third-party shop so that a mechanic can assess the damage. 



In the case of a third-party review, the cost associated with hiring that professional is an allocated loss adjustment expense. Other allocated expenses include the cost of obtaining police reports, and the cost required to evaluate whether an injured driver is really injured.



Insurance companies can also incur unallocated loss adjustment expenses. Unallocated expenses could be related to the salaries of the home office personnel, maintenance costs of the fleet of vehicles used by in-house investigators, and other expenses incurred in the regular course of operations.



An insurance company that maintains a staff to evaluate claims, but is fortunate enough to never have a claim filed, will have salary and overhead as unallocated loss adjustment expenses, but will not have any allocated loss adjustment expenses.




How Is a Loss Ratio Different From the Combined Ratio?
The loss ratio is calculated by dividing the total incurred losses by the total collected insurance premiums. It does not include underwriting and loss adjustment expenses, as is the case with the combined ratio.




What Does It Mean If a Company's LAE Increases Each Year?
If a company's LAE increases each year, it could mean that management is overly aggressive in its financial reporting. Specifically, it might be habitually under-reserving for losses and overstating income.




What Is the Difference Between an Incurred Loss and an LAE?
Incurred loss is simply the amount of money an insurance company paid out in claims. Loss adjusted expense, meanwhile, is the expense associated with investigating and settling those claims.


   The Bottom Line  

Loss adjustment expenses are the expenses that insurance companies incur during the investigation and handling of claims. Examples of loss adjustment expenses include costs for investigators, adjusters, attorneys, and mediators.



The combined ratio, the formula for which includes loss adjustment expenses, compares expenses to earned premiums and is used as a metric for profitability by the insurance industry.
What Is a Loss Carryback?  

A loss carryback describes a situation in which a business experiences a net operating loss (NOL) and chooses to apply that loss to a prior year's tax return. This results in an immediate refund of taxes previously paid by reducing the tax liability for that previous year.





Key Takeaways

A net operating loss (NOL) carryback allows a firm to apply a net operating loss to a previous year's tax return, for an immediate refund of prior taxes paid.A tax loss carryforward, on the other hand, applies a tax loss toward future years' returns.A carryback—and the resulting immediate refund of prior taxes paid—is typically more beneficial than a carryforward due to the time value of money.NOL carryback provisions in the tax code have been increased, decreased, omitted entirely, and reinstated various times over the years.It is important to be aware of the current state of carryback tax provisions.


   Understanding a Loss Carryback  

Loss carrybacks are similar to loss carryforwards, except that companies apply their net operating losses to preceding rather than subsequent years' incomes. The loss carryback will generate a tax refund of prior taxes paid by the business for that previous year due to its newly reduced tax liability. After the carried back loss is applied, it will be as though the business had overpaid its taxes for that year.



A business can choose how to apply a net operating loss (NOL) when such a loss occurs. For example, it can choose to waive the carryback period and only carry the loss forward. However, once the decision has been made to carry the loss forward, the action cannot be reversed.



It is important to note that an NOL carryback is typically more beneficial than a carryforward because the time value of money shows that tax savings in the present are more valuable than in the future. There may be very specific instances when a carryforward makes more sense for a certain business, such as when business tax rates increase considerably. However, it's not the norm.



Tax provisions allowing NOLs to be carried back have ranged from zero to five years, historically. Because it is such a highly beneficial tax planning option to the taxpayer, tax bills have often touched on carrybacks. In times of recession, the length of time taxpayers are allowed to carry back losses has been extended. Carrybacks have also been omitted from the tax code entirely as an option, allowing only carryforwards. It is important to know where the legislation sits at the point in time a carryback is being considered.


   History of Loss Carrybacks  

The NOL carryback provision relating to federal income taxes was originally introduced as part of the Revenue Act of 1918. Originally, this federal income tax provision was intended to be a short-lived benefit to companies incurring losses related to the sale of war-related items in the post-WWI era. The initial carryback and carryforward (collectively, carryover) provisions were only for one year. The purpose of keeping the provision was to smooth the tax burden for companies whose primary business is cyclical in nature, but not in line with a standard tax year. This is common with agricultural businesses, as they are highly dependent on weather conditions and may have one successful year followed by a year with a major net operating loss.



Over the following years, the allowable duration for carryovers has been extended, decreased, omitted entirely, and reinstated. We will look only at the major changes to the carryback provision over the last few decades.






Some states have stricter income percentages or time limits on carrybacks or carryforwards for state income tax purposes.



The Tax Relief Act of 1997 limited the NOL carryback provision to two years while extending the carryforward provision out to 20 years.
Carrybacks were extended temporarily to three, four, or five years as a response to both the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center and the Great Recession in 2009.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), passed in 2017, removed the two-year carryback provision, with the exception of certain farming losses and non-life insurance companies. It also allows for an indefinite carryforward period, but the carryforwards are now limited to 80% of each subsequent year's net income. For the exceptions, insurance companies, other than life insurance, are permitted to carry back NOLs two years and forward 20 years, and the new 80% limitation does not apply. Farming losses are permitted to be carried back two years and carried forward indefinitely, still subject to the 80% limitation. 
In 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act effectively delayed the changes put into place by the TCJA until Jan. 1, 2021. The CARES Act also extended the time frame for carrybacks and allowed a five-year NOL carryback for taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2017, and before Jan. 1, 2021. This includes NOLs incurred by non-life insurance companies and farming losses.


   Real World Example  

Tax-loss carrybacks got new attention in September 2020 when the New York Times released details surrounding President Trump's 2009 tax return. According to the Times article, "confidential records show that starting in 2010 he claimed, and received, an income tax refund totaling $72.9 million—all the federal income tax he had paid for 2005 through 2008, plus interest." This was made possible through an NOL carryback provision that changed as a result of the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009, signed into law by President Obama.



The 2009 tax law allowed a five-year NOL carryback provision for tax years 2008 and 2009, rather than the two-year carryback provision that was in place at the time. This meant that NOLs incurred during 2008 and 2009 could be applied toward a refund of taxes previously paid in the five years preceding the loss. If the taxpayer elected to carry back an NOL to the fifth preceding year, the NOL carryback was limited to 50% of the taxable income in the fifth preceding year. However, the remaining NOL balance could be carried forward to the fourth preceding year, and so on until the loss was fully exhausted.
What Is a Loss Carryforward?  

A loss carryforward refers to an accounting technique that applies the current year's net operating loss (NOL) to future years' net income to reduce tax liability. For example, if a company experiences negative net operating income (NOI) in year one, but positive NOI in subsequent years, it can reduce future profits using the NOL carryforward to record some or all of the loss from the first year in the subsequent years. This results in lower taxable income in positive NOI years, reducing the amount the company owes the government in taxes. Loss carryforward can also refer to a capital loss carryforward.





Key Takeaways

Loss Carryforwards are used to spread a current net operating loss (NOL) over subsequent years' net operating income (NOI) in order to reduce future tax liability.The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) removed the 2-year carryback provision, extended the 20-year carryforward provision out indefinitely, and limited carryforwards to 80% of net income in any future year.Net operating losses originating in tax years beginning prior to Jan. 1, 2018, are still subject to the former carryover rules.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Loss Carryforwards  

Prior to the implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) in 2018, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allowed businesses to carry net operating losses (NOL) forward 20 years to net against future profits or backward two years for an immediate refund of previous taxes paid. After 20 years, any remaining losses expire and could no longer be used to reduce taxable income.﻿﻿



For tax years beginning Jan. 1, 2018, or later, the TCJA has removed the two-year carryback provision, except for certain farming losses, but allows for an indefinite carryforward period. However, the carryforwards are now limited to 80% of each subsequent year's net income. Losses originating in tax years beginning prior to Jan. 1, 2018, are still subject to the former tax rules and any remaining losses will still expire after 20 years.﻿﻿



NOL carryforwards are recorded as assets on the company's balance sheet. They offer a benefit to the company in the form of future tax liability savings. A deferred tax asset is created for the NOL carryforward, which is offset against net income in future years. The deferred tax asset account is drawn down each year, not to exceed 80% of net income in any one of the subsequent years, until the balance is exhausted.﻿﻿



The NOL carryforward provision relating to federal income taxes was originally introduced as part of the Revenue Act of 1918. Some states have stricter limits for state income tax on carryforwards or carryback.﻿﻿



Originally, this federal income tax provision was intended to be a short-lived benefit to companies incurring losses related to the sale of war-related items in the post-WWI era. Over the following years, the provision's duration for carryovers has been extended, decreased, omitted, and reinstated. The purpose of keeping the provision was to smooth the tax burden for companies whose primary business is cyclical in nature, but not in line with a standard tax year.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

To use NOL carryforwards effectively, businesses should claim them as soon as possible. The losses are not indexed with inflation, and as a result, each year the claim effectively becomes smaller.



For example, if a business loses $100,000 in the current tax year, although it may carry the loss forward for the next 20 years, it is likely to have a larger impact the sooner it is claimed. As a result of inflation, it is most likely that $100,000 will have less buying power and less real value 20 years from now.


   Example of Loss Carryforward  

Imagine a company lost $5 million one year and earned $6 million the next. The carryover limit of 80% of $6 million is $4.8 million. The full loss from the first year can be carried forward on the balance sheet to the second year as a deferred tax asset.



The loss, limited to 80% of income in the second year, can then be used in the second year as an expense on the income statement. It lowers net income, and therefore the taxable income, for that year to $1.2 million. A $200,000 deferred tax asset ($5 million - $4.8 million) will remain on the balance sheet.
What Is Loss Development?  

Loss development is the difference between the final losses recorded by an insurer and what the insurer originally recorded. Loss development seeks to account for the fact that some insurance claims take a long time to settle, and that estimates of the total loss an insurer will experience will adjust as claims are finalized.





Key Takeaways

Loss development is the difference between what an insurer initially records for liabilities versus the final level of claims. A loss development factor allows insurers to adjust claims to their projected final levels. One of the most important factors for insurers when determining potential losses is the amount of time that it will take to process a claim. 












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   How Loss Development Works  

Insurance companies use loss development factors in insurance pricing and reserving to adjust claims from their initial projected estimate to the final amount actually paid out after a successful claim. Insurers have to take a number of factors into account when determining what, if any, losses they may face from the insurance policies that they underwrite. 



One of the most important factors is the amount of time that it takes to process a claim. While claims may be reported, processed, and closed during a particular policy period, they may also be reported in later policy periods and may not be settled for a long period of time. This can make reporting complicated and, at best, based off an approximation of the loss that the insurer will ultimately experience. 



Reported but not settled (RBNS) losses are those that have been reported to an insurance company that have not been settled by the end of the policy period. RBNS losses are initially calculated using an estimation of the severity of the loss based on the available information from the claims settlement process. Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) is another type of reserve used in the insurance industry as the provision for claims and/or events that have transpired but have not yet been reported to an insurance company. In IBNR situations, an actuary will estimate potential damages, and the insurance company may decide to set up reserves to allocate funds for the expected losses.


  Loss Development Factor  

Insurance claims in long-tailed lines, such as liability insurance, are often not paid immediately. Claims adjusters set initial case reserves for claims; however, it is often impossible to accurately predict what the final amount of an insurance claim will be for a variety of reasons. Loss development factors are used by actuaries, underwriters, and other insurance professionals to "develop" claim amounts to their estimated final value. Ultimate loss amounts are necessary for determining an insurance company's carried reserves. They are also useful for determining adequate insurance premiums, when loss experience is used as a rating factor.



A loss development factor (LDF) is used to adjust losses to account for claim increases. The LDF is a number that is meant to adjust claims to their ultimate projected level. For example, an LDF of 2.0 means that for every $1 in claims, the ultimate payout will be $2. If an insurer had $100,000 in current claims, the ultimate payout would be $200,000 with an LDF of 2.0.  






Loss amounts are key for pricing insurance premiums and determining carried reserves.


   Requirements for Loss Development   

Insurers use a loss development triangle when evaluating loss development. The triangle compares loss development for a specific policy period over an extended period of time. For example, an insurer may look at loss development for the 2018 policy period at twelve month intervals over the course of five years. This means that it will examine the 2018 loss development in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022.



Insurers are required to report their financial position to state regulators who use these reports to determine whether an insurer is in good financial health or if there is a risk of insolvency. Regulators may use a loss development triangle to compare the percentage change across time periods, and use this percentage when making estimates of its loss development for a particular insurer in upcoming periods. If the rate of change fluctuates substantially over time the regulator may contact the insurer to find out why its loss estimates are off the mark.
What Is Loss Given Default (LGD)?  

Loss given default (LGD) is the estimated amount of money a bank or other financial institution loses when a borrower defaults on a loan. LGD is depicted as a percentage of total exposure at the time of default or a single dollar value of potential loss. A financial institution’s total LGD is calculated after a review of all outstanding loans using cumulative losses and exposure.





Key Takeaways

The loss given default (LGD) is an important calculation for financial institutions projecting out their expected losses due to borrowers defaulting on loans.The expected loss of a given loan is calculated as the LGD multiplied by both the probability of default and the exposure at default.Exposure at default is the total value of the loan at the time a borrower defaults.An important figure for any financial institution is the cumulative amount of expected losses on all outstanding loans.LGD is an essential component of the Basel Model (Basel II), a set of international banking regulations.


   Understanding Loss Given Default (LGD)  

Banks and other financial institutions determine credit losses by analyzing actual loan defaults. Quantifying losses can be complex and require an analysis of several variables. How credit losses are accounted for on a company’s financial statements include determining both an allowance for credit losses and an allowance for doubtful accounts.



Consider if Bank A lends $2 million to Company XYZ, and the company defaults. Bank A’s loss is not necessarily $2 million. Other factors must be considered such as the amount of collateral, whether installment payments have been made, and whether the bank makes use of the court system for reparations from Company XYZ. With these and other factors considered, Bank A may, in reality, have sustained a far smaller loss than the initial $2 million loan.



Determining the amount of loss is an important and fairly common parameter in most risk models. LGD is an essential component of the Basel Model (Basel II), a set of international banking regulations, as it is used in the calculation of economic capital, expected loss, and regulatory capital. The expected loss is calculated as a loan’s LGD multiplied by both its probability of default (PD) and the financial institution’s exposure at default (EAD).






Loans with collateral, known as secured debt, greatly benefit the lender and can benefit the borrower through lower interest rates.


   How to Calculate LGD  

There are a number of different ways to calculate LGD.



A common variation considers the exposure at risk and recovery rate. Exposure at default is an estimated value that predicts the amount of loss a bank may experience when a debtor defaults on a loan. The recovery rate is a risk-adjusted measure to right-size the default based on the likelihood of the outcome.



LGD (in dollars) = Exposure at Risk (EAD) * (1 - Recovery Rate)



Another basic variation compares the potential net collectible proceeds to the outstanding debt. This formula provides a general ratio of what portion of debt is expected to be lost:



LGD (as percentage) = 1 - (Potential Sale Proceeds / Outstanding Debt)



Of these two methods, it is more common to see the first formula be used as it is more conservative approach to reflect the maximum potential loss. It can often be difficult to assess what the potential sale proceeds are especially considering multiple collateral assets, disposition costs, timing of payments, and liquidity of each asset.


   Loss Given Default (LGD) vs. Exposure at Default (EAD)  

Exposure at default is the total value of a loan that a bank is exposed to when a borrower defaults. For example, if a borrower takes out a loan for $100,000 and two years later the amount left on the loan is $75,000, and the borrower defaults, the exposure at default is $75,000.



When analyzing default risk, banks will often calculate the EAD on a loan as it aims to predict the amount the bank will be exposed to when a borrower defaults. Exposure at default constantly changes as a borrower pays down their loan.






Depending on the loan, such as a mortgage or student loan, there are a different number of days passed without payment that counts as a default. Make sure you are aware of the figure for your specific loan.



The main difference between LGD and EAD is that LGD takes into consideration any recovery on the default. For this reason, EAD is the more conservative measurement as it is the higher figure. LGD is more often the best case scenario that relies on multiple assumptions.



For example, if a borrower defaults on their remaining car loan, the EAD is the amount of the loan left they defaulted on. Now, if a bank can then sell that car and recover a certain amount of the EAD, that will be taken into consideration to calculate LGD.


   Example of Loss Given Default (LGD)  

Imagine a borrower takes out a $400,000 loan for a condo. After making installment payments on the loan for a few years, the borrower begins to face financial difficulties. It is estimated that the borrower has an 80% of default. The outstanding loan balance is $300,000, and the bank will be able to sell the condo for $200,000 upon foreclosure.



To calculate the LGD in dollars, compare the amount at risk to the likelihood of default. In this situation, the lender interprets $240,000 at risk of default.



LGD (in dollars omitting collateral) = $300,000 * (1 - 80%) = $240,000



Alternatively, LGD can be calculated as a percentage that typically incorporates the value of the collateral. Although the formula above is easier to calculate, it did not factor in the disposition proceeds of the condo in the event of default. Using the second variation, the lender should anticipate losing 33% of their capital should the condo owner default when considering the collateral value.



LGD (as percentage including collateral) = 1 - ($200,000 / $300,000) = 33.33%




What Does Loss Given Default Mean?
Loss given default (LGD) is the amount of money a financial institution loses when a borrower defaults on a loan, after taking into consideration any recovery, represented as a percentage of total exposure at the time of loss.




What Are PD and LGD?
LGD is loss given default and refers to the amount of money a bank loses when a borrower defaults on a loan. PD is the probability of default, which measures the probability, or likelihood that a borrower will default on their loan.




What Is the Difference Between EAD and LGD?
EAD is exposure at default and represents the value of a loan that a bank is at risk of losing at the time a borrower defaults on their loan. Loss given default is the value of a loan that a bank is at the risk of losing, after taking into proceeds from the sale of the asset, represented as a percentage of total exposure.




Can Loss Given Default Be Zero?
Loss given default can theoretically be zero when a financial institution is modeling LGD. If the model believes that a full recovery on the loan is possible then the LGD can be zero. This is usually not the case, however.




What Is Usage Given Default?
Usage given default is another term for exposure at default, which is the total value left on a loan when the borrower defaults.


   The Bottom Line  

When making loans, banks tend to reduce their risk as much as they can. They evaluate a borrower and determine the risk factors of lending to that borrower, including the probability of them defaulting on the loan and how much the bank stands to lose if they do default. Loss given default (LGD), probability of default (PD), and exposure at default (EAD) are calculations that help banks quantify their potential losses.
What Is a Loss Leader Strategy?  

A loss leader strategy involves selling a product or service at a price that is not profitable but is sold to attract new customers or to sell additional products and services to those customers. Loss leading is a common practice when a business first enters a market. A loss leader introduces new customers to a service or product in the hopes of building a customer base and securing future recurring revenue.





Key Takeaways

A loss leader strategy prices a product lower than its production cost in order to attract customers or sell other, more expensive products.Loss leading is a controversial strategy that is considered predatory.Some companies use a loss leading strategy when aiming to penetrate new markets to gain market share.Large companies can afford to price a product with no margin because they have other products they can sell profitably to make up for the loss.Loss leading strategies can hurt small businesses as well as suppliers, who might be forced to keep their own prices low so that a business can continue with its loss leading strategy.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding a Loss Leader Strategy  

Loss leading can be a successful strategy if executed properly. A classic example is razor blades. Gillette, for example, often gives their razor units away for free or at a low price, knowing that customers must buy replacement blades, which is where the company makes its profit.﻿﻿



Another example is Microsoft's Xbox One video game console. The product was sold at a low margin per unit, but Microsoft knew that there was potential to profit from the sale of video games with higher margins and subscriptions to the company's Xbox Live service. The loss leader strategy is common throughout the video game industry and, in most cases, consoles are sold for less than they cost to build.﻿﻿



The loss leader strategy is also known as penetration pricing as the manufacturer attempts to penetrate the market by pricing its products low.



Opponents of loss leader pricing practices argue that the strategy is predatory in nature and designed to force competitors out of business.


   Loss Leaders and Retail Shops  

Both brick-and-mortar stores and online shops use loss leader pricing strategies. These businesses frequently price a few items so low that there is no profit margin. The hope is that once the shopper buys the product from the store or the website, the shopper will buy other products and become loyal to the brand. Unfortunately, for business owners, consumers sometimes leave without buying other products or subscribing to the brand. This consumer practice of jumping from shop to shop and picking up loss leader items is called cherry picking.



Some retailers place loss leaders at the back of their stores so consumers will have to walk by other, more expensive products to get to them. One of the most practiced examples of this is the sale of milk. Milk, a common household item, is often placed at the back of every grocery store, requiring an individual to pass by almost every other item in a grocery store.



Even if the shopper just came in the store to buy milk, it is very likely they will purchase additional items as they walk by them on their way to the milk section and then back to the register, resulting in increased sales for the shop.


   Loss Leaders and Introductory Pricing  

Introductory pricing can also be a loss leader. For example, a credit card company may offer a low introductory rate to entice clients to use a card or transfer their existing balances. Then, after snagging the client, the company raises its interest rates. Similarly, cable companies often offer low rates, sometimes at a loss, for an initial period to attract new customers or to lure customers away from competitors.


   Disadvantages of a Loss Leader Strategy  

For businesses that use a loss leader strategy, the greatest risk is that clients may only take advantage of the loss leader pricing and not use any of the business's other products and services. Additionally, some small-business owners complain that they cannot compete with large corporations who can absorb the losses implicit in this strategy.



Finally, suppliers to companies who follow a loss leader strategy may experience pressure to keep their own prices low so that the company using a loss leader strategy can continue to do so.
What Is a Loss Payee?  

The loss payee is the party to whom the claim from a loss is to be paid. A loss payee can mean several different things; in the insurance industry, the insured, or the party entitled to payment, is the loss payee. The insured can expect reimbursement from the insurance carrier in the event of a loss.



A loss payee clause in an insurance policy would specify that any loss covered by the insurer would be paid to a third-party payee and not the primary beneficiary. The loss payee could be a lender (in the case of a lien on a car or home), lessor, property owner, or any other party with an interest in the insured's property.





Key Takeaways

When you use collateral to secure your loan, a loss payee will be put onto your insurance policy. The loss payee acts as a guard for the lender to protect it against unpaid loans. When there is a total loss, the lender is paid before anyone else. 


   How Loss Payees Work  

A loss payee, also known as a loss payable, can be different from "first loss payee," which is the party that must be paid first when a debtor defaults on a loan. "Loss payee" is simply a generic phrase signifying the rightful recipient of any kind of reimbursement and is most often used in the property-casualty insurance industry.



When financing a vehicle purchase, a buyer must agree to carry insurance on the secured property, otherwise forced placed insurance becomes a possibility. The financial institution making the loan typically insists that they are indicated as the loss payee on the insurance policy to protect themselves against loss.



For example, the loss payee section is a section on an auto insurance policy that lists your lender’s name and address on the given collateral. It is important to give the correct address for your lender, as some insurance companies have multiple addresses.






The term loss payee is most often used in the auto insurance industry but is also used by other insurance sectors.



The lender will usually require verification of insurance coverage, and the loss payee should be added as soon as you buy insurance for the covered vehicle. This verification of insurance cannot be satisfied simply by an insurance ID card; it needs to be a declarations page. The declarations page will have multiple pieces of crucial information listed for your lender:



Policy effective datesVIN of the vehicle insuredVehicle coverageLoss payee listed properly


   Explaining Loss Payee Status  

When listed as a loss payee, the lender will receive notification of your insurance policy’s status on a regular basis. The notifications will inform the lender of all activities on your insurance policy. For example, the loss payee section of an auto insurance policy creates more than a direct link between your insurance company and your lender.



Since you are not the sole owner of the collateral, claim checks will be payable to both you and the lender, or directly to a repair shop. In a total loss, the lender will be paid first.



For the lender, being listed as a loss payee ensures the lender will be compensated for their collateral, regardless of potential losses.



The loss payee is essentially a safety net for the lender to reduce unpaid loans. If you do not list your lender as the loss payee, it is probable the lender will put forced placed insurance on your collateral.
What Is a Loss Ratio?  

Loss ratio is used in the insurance industry, representing the ratio of losses to premiums earned. Losses in loss ratios include paid insurance claims and adjustment expenses. The loss ratio formula is insurance claims paid plus adjustment expenses divided by total earned premiums. For example, if a company pays $80 in claims for every $160 in collected premiums, the loss ratio would be 50%.





Key Takeaways

Loss ratio is the losses an insurer incurs due to paid claims as a percentage of premiums earned.  A high loss ratio can be an indicator of financial distress, especially for a property or casualty insurance company.Insurers will calculate their combined ratios, which include the loss ratio and their expense ratio, to measure total cash outflows associated with their operating activities.If loss ratios associated with your policy become excessive, an insurance provider may raise premiums or choose not to renew a policy.If health insurers fail to divert 80% of premiums to claims or healthcare improving activities, they will have to issue a rebate to their policyholders.


   How a Loss Ratio Works  

Loss ratios vary depending on the type of insurance. For example, the loss ratio for health insurance tends to be higher than the loss ratio for property and casualty insurance. Loss ratios help assess the health and profitability of an insurance company. A business collects premiums higher than amounts paid in claims, and so high loss ratios may indicate that a business is in financial distress.






Unlike auto and homeowners insurance, under the ACA, health insurers do not retain the ability to adjust your insurance premiums based on submitted claims or your medical history.


   Types of Loss Ratios   
  Medical Loss Ratio  

A health insurance carrier that pays $8 in claims for every $10 in premiums collected has a medical cost ratio (MCR) of 80%. Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), health insurance carriers were mandated to allocate a significant share of the premium to clinical services and the improvement of healthcare quality.



Health insurance providers are required to divert 80% of premiums to claims and activities that improve the quality of care and offer more value to the plan's participants. If an insurer fails to spend the required 80% on health care costs, it will have to rebate excess funds back to the consumer.


  Commercial Insurance Loss Ratio  

Businesses with commercial property and liability policies are expected to maintain adequate loss ratios. Otherwise, they may face premium increases and cancellations. Consider a small used car dealer who pays $20,000 in annual premiums to insure their inventory. A hailstorm causes $25,000 in damages, for which the business owner submits a claim. The insured's one-year loss ratio becomes $25,000 / $20,000, or 125%.



To determine if and for what amount a premium increase is warranted, carriers may review claims history and loss ratios for the past five years. If the insured has a very brief tenure with the insurer, the company may decide that the auto dealer presents an unacceptable future risk. At that juncture, the carrier may choose not to renew the policy.


   Loss Ratio vs. Benefits-Expense Ratio  

Related to loss ratios are benefit-expense ratios, which compares an insurer's expenses for acquiring, underwriting, and servicing a policy by the net premium charged. Expenses can include employee wages, agent and broker commissions, dividends, advertising, legal fees, and other general and administrative expenses (G&A).



An insurer will combine the benefit-expense ratio with their loss ratio to arrive at a combined ratio. While the benefit ratio looks at company expenses, the loss-to-gain ratio looks at paid claims, including adjustments, compared to the net premium.



Also, due to the higher number of probable claims per period, losses for healthcare providers will be higher than those for property or casualty insurance. The combined ratio measures the flow of money out of a company through the payment of expenses and the total losses as they relate to the income from premiums.
What Is a Loss Reserve?  

A loss reserve is an estimate of an insurer’s liability from future claims it will have to pay out on. Typically composed of liquid assets, loss reserves allow an insurer to cover claims made against insurance policies that it underwrites. Estimating liabilities can be a complex undertaking. Insurers must take into account the duration of the insurance contract, the type of insurance offered, the odds of a claim being made, and the time of it being resolved quickly. Insurers have to adjust their loss reserve calculations as circumstances change.





Key Takeaways

A loss reserve is an accounting entry that estimates the amount an insurance company would have to pay out on future insurance claims on policies that it has underwritten.Calculating loss reserves is a difficult process as it is an attempt to guess when and how many claims come due that the insurance company will be liable for.Regulations require loss reserves to be reported at nominal value whereas insurance companies would prefer them to be reported as a discounted present value loss.Estimating the correct loss reserve is important for an insurance company as it directly impacts profitability and solvency.Loss reserves, when applied to the banking industry, are known as loan loss provisions.


   Understanding a Loss Reserve  

When an insurer underwrites a new policy, it records a premium receivable (which is an asset) and a claim obligation (which is a liability). The liability is considered part of the unpaid losses account, which represents the loss reserve.



Accounting for loss reserves involves complex calculations because losses can come at any time, including years down the road. For example, a final settlement of litigation with a claimant may require a multi-year court battle, which would drain an insurance company's funds over a long period. Maintaining an adequate level of loss reserves puts an insurance company in a better financial position to pay out claims and any long legal battles.


   Calculating a Loss Reserve  

Estimating the correct loss reserve is crucial for a company in maintaining its profitability and solvency. If an insurance company is too conservative in their loss reserve calculation, they will have allocated too much to the reserve, reducing their income, and the investment ability of assets. On the other hand, if they are too liberal with their calculation, then they will not have allocated enough to their reserves, which would result in booking losses and possible insolvency for the company.



Insurers prefer to use present value when calculating claims since it allows them to discount the future value of claim payments and realize how much they have to reserve today. It also takes into consideration the years of interest earned on the reserves before having to pay out a claim. This would technically reduce the liability amount. However, regulators require claims to be recorded at the actual value of the loss—its nominal value. The undiscounted loss reserve will be greater than the discounted loss reserve. This regulatory requirement results in higher reported liabilities.


   Other Impacts of Loss Reserves  

Loss reserves also impact an insurance company's tax liabilities. Regulators determine an insurer’s taxable income by taking the sum of annual premiums and subtracting any increases in loss reserves. This calculation is called a loss reserve deduction. Income, which is the insurer’s underwriting income, includes the loss reserve deduction plus investment income.



The incorporation of loss reserves into financial statements can often lead to the use of loss reserves for income smoothing. The claims process can be complex so determining whether an insurer is using loss reserves to smooth income requires examining changes to the insurer’s loss reserve errors, relative to past investment income.


   Loss Reserves and Loans  

Lending institutions also use loss reserves to manage their books, and when applied to the banking industry, are known as loan loss provisions, which operate in the same fashion that loss reserves do for an insurance company. 



For example, consider Bank ABC that has made loans in the amount of $10,000,000 to various companies and individuals. Though Bank ABC works very hard to qualify the people to whom it grants loans, some will inevitably default or fall behind, and some loans will have to be renegotiated.



Bank ABC understands these realities and, thus, estimates that 2% of its loans, or $200,000, will probably never be paid back. This $200,000 estimate is Bank ABC's loan loss reserve, and it records this reserve as a negative number on the asset portion of its balance sheet.



If Bank ABC decides to write all or a portion of a loan off, it will remove the loan from its asset balance and also remove the amount of the write-off from the loan loss reserve. The amount deducted from the loan loss reserve may be tax-deductible for Bank ABC.
What Is the Lost Decade?  

The Lost Decade is commonly used to describe the decade of the 1990s in Japan, a period of economic stagnation which became one of the longest-running economic crises in recorded history. Later decades are also included in some definitions, with the period from 1991-2011 (or even 1991-2021) sometimes also referred to as Japan's Lost Decades.





Key Takeaways

The Lost Decade originally referred to an extended period of slow to negative economic growth, lasting almost ten years, in Japan's economy during the 1990s.Stagnant growth in subsequent years has led the period since 1991 to sometimes be referred to as Japan's Lost Decades (plural).Misguided government policies after a real estate bubble are considered to be the main culprits for the Lost Decade.Within the US economy, the first decade of the 21st century, which was bookended by two stock market crashes, is often compared to Japan's Lost Decade.


   Understanding the Lost Decade  

The Lost Decade is a term initially coined to refer to the decade-long economic crisis in Japan during the 1990s. Japan’s economy rose meteorically in the decades following World War II, peaking in the 1980s with the largest per capita gross national product (GNP) in the world. Japan's export-led growth during this period attracted capital and helped drive a trade surplus with the U.S.



To help offset global trade imbalances, Japan joined other major world economies in the Plaza Agreement in 1985. In accord with this agreement, Japan embarked on a period of loose monetary policy in the late 1980s. This loose monetary policy led to increased speculation and a soaring stock market and real estate valuations.



In the early 1990s, as it became apparent that the bubble was about to burst, the Japanese Financial Ministry raised interest rates, and ultimately the stock market crashed and a debt crisis began, halting economic growth and leading to what is now known as the Lost Decade. During the 1990s, Japan's gross domestic product (GDP) averaged 1.3%, significantly lower as compared to other G-7 countries. Household savings increased. But that increase did not translate into demand, resulting in deflation for the economy.


  The Lost Decades  

In the following decade, Japan's GDP growth averaged only 0.5% per year as sustained slow growth carried over right up until the global financial crisis and Great Recession. As a result, many refer to the period between 1991 and 2010 as the Lost Score, or the Lost 20 Years.



From 2011 to 2019, Japan's GDP grew an average of just under 1.0% per year, and 2020 marked the onset of a new global recession as governments locked down economic activity in reaction to the Covid-19 pandemic. Together the years from 1990 to the present are sometimes referred to as Japan's Lost Decades.



The pain is expected to continue for Japan. According to research from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, recent growth rates imply that Japan's GDP will double in 80 years when previously it doubled every 14 years.


   What Caused The Lost Decade?  

While there is some agreement on the events that led up to and precipitated the Lost Decade, the causes for Japan's sustained economic woes are still being debated. Once the bubble burst and the recession happened, why did it extend into an entire Lost Decade? (Or two? Or three?!) Demographic factors, such as Japan's aging population, and the geopolitical rise of China and other East Asian competitors may be underlying, non-economic factors. Researchers have produced papers delineating possible reasons why the Japanese economy sank into prolonged stagnation.



Keynesian economists have offered several demand-side explanations. Paul Krugman opined that Japan was caught in a liquidity trap: consumers were holding onto their savings because they feared that the economy was about to get worse. Other research on the subject analyzed the role played by decreasing household wealth in causing the economic crisis. Japan's Lost Decade, a 2017 book, blames a "vertical investment-saving" curve for Japan's problems.



Monetarist economists have instead pointed to Japan's monetary policy before and during the Lost Decade as too restrictive and not accommodative enough to restart growth. Milton Friedman wrote, in reference to Japan, that "the surest road to a healthy economic recovery is to increase the rate of monetary growth to shift from tight money to easier money, to a rate of monetary growth closer to that which prevailed in the golden 1980s but without again overdoing it. That would make much-needed financial and economic reforms far easier to achieve."



Despite these various attempts, Keynesian and Monetarist views on Japan's extended economic malaise generally fall short. Japan's government has engaged in repeated rounds of massive fiscal deficit spending (the Keynesian's solution to economic depression) and expansionary monetary policy (the Monetarist prescription) without notable success. This suggests that either the Keynesian and Monetarist explanations or solutions (or both) are likely mistaken.



Austrian economists have, on the contrary, argued that a period of extended economic stagnation is not inconsistent with Japan's economic policies that throughout the period acted to prop up existing firms and financial institutions rather than letting them fail and allowing entrepreneurs to reorganize them into new firms and industries. They point to the repeated economic and financial bailouts as a cause of (rather than a solution to) Japan's Lost Decade(s).
What Is a Lost Policy Release (LPR)?  

A lost policy release (LPR) is a statement releasing an insurance company from its liabilities. An LPR is signed by the insured party and signifies that the policy in question has been lost or destroyed or is being retained.



Historically, an insured party that wanted to cancel an insurance policy would have to produce the original insurance documents that the insurance company created when the policy was underwritten.





Key Takeaways

A lost policy release (LPR) is a statement that releases an insurance company from its liabilities.In the modern day, canceling an insurance policy no longer requires mailing back original policy documents, so lost policy releases are no longer necessary in most insurance cases.An auto insurer may get a policyholder to sign a lost policy release, if they are switching to a different auto insurance provider, though that transaction is likely to happen online.



If the policy was lost or misplaced, the insured would then have to demonstrate that the policy is still being canceled, and this was done with a lost policy release. The lost policy release is used to signify that the policyholder is canceling the policy intentionally.


   Understanding Lost Policy Releases (LPR)  

Lost policy releases generally have standard language that is a holdover from the past. Generally, such releases carry the option of either releasing or cancelling a policy. While they sound different, both options are, in effect, the same.



Lost policy releases are not necessary in most modern insurance cases and do not require mailing back the original policy documents.



The exception might be an auto insurer, for instance, that might get a policyholder to sign a lost policy release, if they are switching over to a different auto insurance provider. Once this form is signed, the insurer is no longer liable for reimbursing losses to the policyholder, though this form would more than likely be filled out online.


   Different Types of Cancellation/Lost Policy Releases  

When filling out the lost policy release, also called a “cancellation/lost policy release,” the insured typically chooses between three types of cancellations: flat, pro-rata, and short rate.



Flat cancellations are used when the insurer was never exposed to risk because the coverage never went into effect. In this case, the premium is often refunded in full.



If an insurance policy is canceled before it is expired, the insured may be eligible to receive a portion or all of the remaining unearned premium held by the insurer. This is called a pro-rata cancellation. The unearned premium represents the money that an insurer has collected from the sale of the policy, but which is set aside to cover the liability created when the policy was underwritten.



Short rate cancellations are used when the insured fails to pay premiums and the insurance company requests that the policy be canceled. Lost policy releases may also be used if an insurer issues a replacement policy. Once a lost policy release is signed, the insurer is no longer responsible for any claims made after the cancellation date on the policy being replaced. However, in such instances, it may be smart to retain old policy documents just in case there is an issue that arises regarding the replacement insurance policy.
What Is a Lot (Securities Trading)?  

Lots in securities and trading represent the number of units of a financial instrument bought on an exchange. Typically, the number of units is conveyed by the lot name. For example, in the stock market, a round lot is 100 shares. However, investors do not have to buy round lots. A lot can be any number of shares. For example, an odd lot is the term used when fewer than 100 shares are bought.





Key Takeaways

A lot is the number of units of a financial instrument that is traded on an exchange.For stocks, a round lot is 100 share units, but any number of shares can be traded and also referred to as lots.A bond lot can vary, where sometimes they are $100,000 or $1 million, but face values may be as low as $1,000 that individual investors can purchase.A trader can buy or sell as many futures as they like, although the underlying amount that a contract controls is fixed based on the contract size.One option represents 100 shares of the underlying stock, while forex is traded in micro, mini, and standard lots.


   How a Lot (Securities Trading) Works  

When investors and traders purchase and sell financial instruments in the capital markets, they do so with lots. A lot is a fixed quantity of units and depends on the financial security traded.



For stocks, the typical lot size was round lots of 100 shares for many years, until the advent of online trading. A round lot can also refer to a number of shares that can evenly be divided by 100, such as 300, 1,200, and 15,500 shares.



However, now odd lots, which is an order for less than 100 shares, and mixed lots—a number of shares above 100 but not divisible by 100—are more common. Similar to stocks, the round lot for exchange-traded securities, such as an exchange-traded fund (ETF), is 100 shares.


   Types of Lots (Securities Trading)  
  Bonds  

The bond market is dominated by institutional investors who buy debt from bond issuers in large sums. A round lot for U.S. government and corporate bonds in some circles is considered $1 million. However, it can also be $100,000, such as the case with municipal bonds.



That doesn't mean a trader or investor needs to buy bonds in that quantity. Bonds typically have a face value of $1,000 to $10,000 (some are even lower). An investor can buy as many bonds as they like, yet it still may be an odd lot.


  Options  

In terms of options, a lot represents the number of contracts contained in one derivative security. One equity option contract represents 100 underlying shares of a company’s stock. In other words, the lot for one options contract is 100 shares.



For example, an options trader purchased one Bank of America (BAC) call option last month. The option has a strike price of $24.50 and expires this month. If the options-holder exercises their call option today when the underlying stock, BAC, is trading at $26.15, they can purchase 100 shares of BAC at the strike price of $24.50. One option contract gives them the right to purchase the lot of 100 shares at the agreed strike price.



With such standardization, investors always know exactly how many units they are buying with each contract and can easily assess what price per unit they are paying. Without such standardization, valuing and trading options would be needlessly cumbersome and time-consuming.



Typically, the smallest options trade an investor can make is for one contract, and that represents 100 shares. However, it is possible to trade options for a smaller amount with mini-stock options which have an underlying share amount of 10.


  Futures  

When it comes to the futures market, lots are known as contract sizes. The underlying asset of one futures contract could be an equity, a bond, interest rates, commodity, index, currency, etc. Therefore, the contract size varies depending on the type of contract that is traded.



For example, one futures contract for corn, soybeans, wheat, or oats has a lot size of 5,000 bushels of the commodity. The lot unit for one Canadian dollar futures contract is 100,000 CAD, one British pound contract is 62,500 GBP, one Japanese yen contract is 12,500,000 JPY, and one euro futures contract is 125,000 EUR.



Unlike stocks, bonds, and ETFs in which odd lots can be purchased, the standard contract sizes for options and futures are fixed and non-negotiable. However, derivatives traders purchasing and selling forward contracts can customize the contract or lot size of these contracts, since forwards are non-standardized contracts that are created by the parties involved.



Standardized lots are set by the exchange and allow for greater liquidity in the financial markets. With increased liquidity comes reduced spreads, creating an efficient process for all participants involved.


  Forex Lots  

When trading currencies, there are micro, mini, and standard lots. A micro lot is 1,000 of the base currency, a mini lot is 10,000, and a standard lot is 100,000. While it is possible to exchange currencies at a bank or currency exchange in amounts less than 1,000, when trading through a foreign exchange broker typically the smallest trade size is 1,000 unless expressed stated otherwise.


   Lot Examples  

In the options and futures markets, trading in lots isn't as much of a concern since you can trade any number of contracts desired. Each stock option will represent 100 shares, and each futures contract controls the contract size of the underlying asset.



In forex, a person can trade a minimum of 1,000 of the base currency, in any increment of 1,000. For example, they could trade 1,451,000. That is 14 standard lots, five mini lots, and one micro lot. In a stock trade, a person can trade in odd lots of less than 100 shares.
What Is Love Money?  

Love money refers to seed capital that has been extended by family or friends to an entrepreneur to start a business venture. The decision to lend money and the terms of the agreement are usually based on the relationship between the two parties, instead of a formulaic risk analysis.





Key Takeaways

Love money is a slang term for funding that an entrepreneur raises directly from friends and family.Startups that require love money funding are generally assumed to not fit the requirements of traditional financing sources like banks and venture capitalists.It is critical that the entrepreneur and the investors understand the risks involved with love money prior to any capital changing hands.Love money investments should only be made with capital the investors are prepared to lose entirely.


   Understanding Love Money  

Love money is usually given to entrepreneurs by family or friends when there are no other financial options available. Love money may be the only financing option for an entrepreneur who does not meet the criteria necessary to get credit or capital from traditional avenues like banks or other lenders. Love money may be used to start a new business or to provide an injection of capital to an existing business when required.



Love money typically has no fixed repayment terms, and can sometimes be given for equity in the venture. Love money may also be advanced as a loan or a convertible note with a more formal and structured agreement. Regardless of the structure, it is recommended that investors only use risk capital—money they are prepared to lose—when providing love money investments to family and friends.


   Angel Investors and Love Money  

The people who advance love money may also be considered angel investors, but that is not always the case. The term angel investors may refer to any high net worth individual who can afford to put money in a risky venture, but it usually refers to accredited investors.



These investors will often inject cash into a new venture or when a business needs capital to continue its operations, especially during the difficult early stages, but they tend to have an expectation of returns and a set exit strategy. To qualify as love money, the angel investor would have to be in the entrepreneur's social network prior to investing.


   Why Is Love Money Important?  

Love money is crucial to many types of business ventures but is especially helpful for startups. Many of these businesses would never obtain financing through traditional means. For many budding entrepreneurs, love money is the best way to get off the ground.



That said, love money is not always for first-time entrepreneurs. It can also be a great source of capital for people who are already established but cannot secure enough financing. The more advanced a business is, the more formal a love money investment is likely to be. 


   Does Love Money Mean More or Less Stress?  

While it may seem easier to approach people you know for capital, that does not necessarily mean it comes without stress and pressure. In fact, there may be an additional sense of responsibility toward your funders when you know them personally. It is not always easy to mix business with pleasure, so discussing the direction of the business and when (and how) you will repay the debt can be difficult.



Both parties in a love money transaction should set out clear guidelines and expectations from the beginning in order to help alleviate the pressure and any future problems. Make sure both sides are aware of any legal consequences and considerations before any capital changes hands. More importantly, just like any other investor, the funder should be aware of market conditions and the risks associated with investing in the business.
What Is a Low Exercise Price Option (LEPO)?  

A low exercise price option (LEPO) is a European-style call option with an exercise price of one cent. Both buyer and seller operate on margin and, because it is almost a certainty that the holder will exercise the option at maturity, it is somewhat similar to a futures contract.





Key Takeaways

A low exercise price option (LEPO) is a European-style call option with an exercise price of one cent that mimics a futures contract.LEPOs function as deep-in-the-money options similar to the stock itself.Both buyer and seller of a LEPO operate on margin.LEPO options are not available on any U.S. exchanges.


   Understanding a Low Exercise Price Option (LEPO)  

LEPOs originated in Switzerland and quickly spread to Finland for the avoidance of paying the required stamp duties that were charged on stock trading. Since the strike price is so close to zero, the investor purchasing the LEPO gains most of the features of owning the share directly with the major exceptions of dividends and voting rights.



The Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) began listing LEPO options in 1995 and, as of July 2021, offers them on nearly 100 ASX-listed companies.


  LEPOs vs. Regular Options  

LEPOs differ from regular or standard options in several key ways.



LEPOs are only available as call options.
They are only available with European style expirations.
They are so deep in the money (ITM) that they trade similarly to the underlying stock itself.
Buyers purchase them on margin, so they do not pay the full amount of the premium upfront.
Both buyers and sellers will have ongoing margin payments.
Holders do not receive dividends or have voting rights until after exercise.



Conceptually, LEPOs also act as forward contracts or futures. Standard options give the holder the right but not the obligation to purchase the underlying security at or before expiration. However, since the strike price is so low, the odds that the option will expire ITM, and therefore automatically exercise, at the expiration date are a near certainty. Essentially, a LEPO is a futures contract with the obligation to take delivery.



Of course, all options and futures may be sold to close out the position and avoid taking delivery of the underlying.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Low Exercise Price Options (LEPOs)  

Since LEPOs are essentially a deep ITM call option, they have a very high delta value and trade similarly to the underlying stock. Because these options are of the European style, meaning they are only able to be exercised at expiration, their near-zero strike price almost guarantees that the holder will take delivery of shares at that time. The advantage over owning the stock outright is the participation in the performance of the underlying without any financial or legal issues caused by the direct holding of the stock.



Deep ITM options have very high premiums, or initial costs. However, the investor holds LEPOs on margin, resulting in a lower upfront cost. Again, the benefits must be weighed against the disadvantages of having no claim on dividends or the ability to vote the shares.

What Is the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)?  

The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) is a tax incentive for housing developers to construct, purchase, or renovate housing for low-income individuals and families. The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit was written into the Tax Reform Act of 1986.﻿﻿



There are specific qualifications residents must fulfill to benefit from these types of housing projects, including maximum income guidelines.





Key Takeaways

The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) subsidizes the creation of low-income housing by offering a 10-year tax credit to these projects.﻿﻿The LIHTC is managed by the federal government and funds are allocated to states according to their population.To qualify for the LIHTC, a project must commit to renting to tenants earning less on average than the median income in the area for a 15-year period.﻿﻿At the state level, there are usually more eligible projects competing for credits than there are credits.


   Understanding the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit  

The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit also provides an income incentive for those who invest in low-income housing projects. It is intended to stimulate the creation of more housing for low and middle-income families in communities that would otherwise be out of reach. Typically, the dwelling types that receive the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit are multi-family properties.



There are two main types of credits available. The first is a 9% credit, which can only be used if the building project will have no other credits or government subsidies applied to it. The second type is a 4% credit, which can be used in conjunction with additional tax credits. These credits are applied over a ten-year period and can cover almost the entirety of the taxable expense for the building.﻿﻿



The tax credits are allocated to each state by the federal government. From there, each state may choose which developers can take advantage of these credits for their housing projects. Not every developer or investor will be able to take advantage of this program as there are more applications than available permits issued for construction.


   Qualifying for the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit  

A wide variety of properties can be eligible for the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit, but more projects are competing for the credits than there are credits, as these are allocated based on state population. To qualify for the LIHTC, a project must meet one of the following conditions:



Twenty percent or more of the rental units are rented to tenants earning 50% or less of the median income in the area based on the family size.﻿﻿Forty percent or more of the rental units are rented to tenants earning 60% or less of the median income in the area based on the family size.﻿﻿Forty percent or more of the rental units are rented to tenants with income averaging no more than 60% of the median income in the area and no units are rented to tenants earning more than 80% of the median income.﻿﻿



All of the projects receiving the LIHTC must continue to meet one of these income conditions for a period of 15 years. If the project doesn't comply, the value of the tax credit can be recaptured. One common criticism of the tax credit is that many of the properties in desirable locations cease to be accessible for low-income households once the 15 year period has elapses.


   Support for People Looking for Low Income Housing  

Low-income housing refers to any housing project or residential building that rents units out to tenants who qualify for reduced rent based on income and family size, or who receive a federal stipend to help make their monthly rental payment. These residential units can either be managed by a housing authority or they can be privately managed by landlords or rental agencies that accept a government-issued payment in conjunction with their tenant’s rental payment.



While the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit is intended to spur the creation of more low-income housing, there are other types of supports for the people seeking low-income housing. Low-income housing subsidies are offered through the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



The income qualifications can be found on HUD’s web site and they are subject to change as wages grow or decline in a given area. A prospective renter must earn less than 50 percent of the median income in their area to qualify. While the aid is available to single renters as well as families, there are qualifications for room counts in prospective homes and single renters may be excluded from a housing project due to lack of availability of properly sized units.﻿﻿



Low-income housing should not be confused with affordable housing, which is for families who are spending more than 30 percent of their income on housing.﻿﻿






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
What Is a Low Interest Rate Environment?  

A low interest rate environment occurs when the risk-free rate of interest, typically set by a central bank, is lower than the historic average for a prolonged period of time. In the United States, the risk-free rate is generally defined by the interest rate on Treasury securities.



Zero interest rates and negative interest rates are two extreme examples of low interest rate environments.





Key Takeaways

Low interest rate environments occur when the risk-free rate is set lower than the historical average.Much of the world entered a low interest rate environment following the 2008-09 financial crisis.Low interest rate environments tend to benefit borrowers at the expense of lenders and savers.


   Low Interest Rate Environment Explained  

Much of the developed world has experienced a low interest rate environment since 2009 as monetary authorities from around the globe cut interest rates to effectively 0% in order to stimulate economic growth and prevent deflation.



Low interest rate environments are meant to stimulate economic growth by making it cheaper to borrow money to finance investment in both physical and financial assets. One special form of low interest rates is negative interest rates. This type of monetary policy is unconventional in that depositors must pay the central bank (and in some cases, private banks) to hold their money, rather than receiving interest on their deposits.



Like anything else, there are always two sides to every coin—low interest rates can be both a boon and curse to those affected. In general, savers and lenders will tend to lose out while borrowers and investors benefit from low interest rates.


   Real-World Example of a Low Interest Rate Environment  

As an example, let us consider the interest rate environment in the United States from 1999 to 2021. The red line represents the risk-free rate (one-year Treasuries) and the blue line is the fed funds rate.













Both rates are often used to describe the risk-free rate. As the graph shows, the period following the 2008 financial crisis until around 2017 represents a low interest rate environment, with rates not only below historical norms, but also very close to 0%.



Meanwhile, rates begin to rise in 2017, but in 2019 started to fall again, and then in 2020 fell back close to 0% due to the COVID-19 pandemic.


   Who Benefits From a Low Interest Rate Environment?  

The Federal Reserve lowers interest rates in order to stimulate growth during a period of economic decline. That means that borrowing costs become cheaper.



A low interest rate environment is great for homeowners because it will reduce their monthly mortgage payment. Similarly, prospective homeowners might be enticed into the market because of the cheaper costs. Low interest rates mean more spending money in consumers' pockets.



That also means they may be willing to make larger purchases and will borrow more, which spurs demand for household goods. This is an added benefit to financial institutions because banks are able to lend more. The environment also helps businesses make large purchases and boost their capital.


   Drawbacks of a Low Interest Rate Environment  

Just as there are advantages to a low interest rate environment, there are also drawbacks, especially if the rates are kept extremely low for a long period of time. Lower borrowing rates mean investments are also affected, so anyone putting money into a savings account or a similar vehicle won't see much of a return during this type of environment.



Bank deposits will also drop, but so will bank profitability because cheaper borrowing costs will result in a decrease in interest income. These periods will increase the amount of debt people are willing to take on, which could be a problem for both banks and consumers when interest rates begin to rise.
What Is a Low/No Documentation Loan?  

A low/no documentation loan allows a potential borrower to apply for a mortgage while providing little or no information regarding their employment, income, or assets. Regulation of these loans has evolved significantly since 2008, but they remain an option for some borrowers in nontraditional financial situations.


   How a Low/No Documentation Loan Works  

Borrowers who seek out these products tend to have nontraditional income streams that may be more difficult to document in a traditional mortgage application. Examples might include alternative investments or self-employment arrangements where the borrower minimizes income reporting for tax purposes. Lenders considering these loans tend to focus on the applicant’s credit score, ability to make a larger-than-normal down payment, and nontraditional documentation such as bank statements. Interest rates on these loans tend to be higher than traditionally documented mortgages.


   Origins of the Low/No Documentation Loan  

A low/no documentation loan may sound like a throwback to the pre-2008 days of liar loans and subprime lending, but it remains an option for some segments of the mortgage industry. The term’s origins do lie in the build-up to the real estate crash of 2008. In the early and mid-2000s, lenders who were feeling pressure to issue loans with more favorable terms loosened documentation requirements to the point that low-documentation products became commonplace. NINJA loans were one class of these products. NINJA is an acronym for "no income, job, or asset verification." Lenders often extended these loans to borrowers based purely on their credit scores, without any further documentation of the individual’s ability to make payments.



NINJA and other low-documentation loans—along with subprime lending practices—led directly to the crash of 2008. The housing market slowed in the mid-2000s, and borrowers were increasingly unable to keep up with required payments. Regulatory responses to this meltdown included a 2008 rule enacted by the Federal Reserve through the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) that required lenders to verify a borrower’s ability to make payments on any loan where a higher interest rate was imposed due to a weaker applicant profile. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act followed, and a modification to Dodd-Frank known as the ability to repay rule was finalized by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in January 2013. This rule required lenders to adequately determine any borrower’s ability to make required monthly mortgage payments. Lenders who failed to do so would be subject to penalties established by the U.S. Congress.


  The Return of Low/No Documentation Loans  

Many of the riskiest low/no documentation loan categories, such as NINJA loans, disappeared after the crash of 2008 and the passage of Dodd-Frank. The ability to repay rule, however, allowed some room for low-documentation loans, including a class known as alternative documentation loans.



A 2018 law repealing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act loosened standards for potential loans to be considered qualifying mortgages. The ability to repay rule was not affected by this law, but the law made it easier for borrowers to avoid the low-documentation classification. Many smaller banks pushed for this adjustment, arguing that the Dodd-Frank restrictions were unnecessarily onerous on these banks. They argued that national lenders had abandoned riskier loans that could prove beneficial to local communities, and that smaller banks could support the recovery of real estate markets with more lenient lending practices.
What Is a Low Volume Pullback?  

A low volume pullback is a technical correction toward an area of support that occurs on lower-than-average volume. Since the move occurs on low volume, traders often attribute the pullback to weak longs locking in profits rather than a reversal.





Key Takeaways

Low volume pullbacks occur when the price moves towards support levels on lower than average volume.Low volume pullbacks are often a sign of weak longs taking profit, but suggest that the long-term uptrend remains intact.High volume pullbacks suggest that there could be a near-term reversal.


   Understanding Low Volume Pullbacks  

Frequent moves that occur in the opposite direction of a trend, which are accompanied by low volume, are normal fluctuations and generally deemed to be insignificant. On the other hand, a large spike in volume in the opposite direction of the trend could be used to signal that the smart money is starting to look for the exits and the trend is getting ready to reverse. These significant moves lower are known as high volume pullbacks.


   Trading Low Volume Pullbacks  

Many technical traders will try to enter a position on the short-term weakness seen in a low volume pullback because it increases the risk/reward ratio as stop losses are closer to major support levels. Long term investors may also take these opportunities to add to their positions at a lower price and decrease the cost basis of their overall long positions, which creates an opportunity for more upside.



Traders will use indicators, such as the on-balance volume (OBV), to find situations where the trend and the volume are diverging. If the trend is moving higher and volume is decreasing, trades may look for a potentially longer-term reversal to occur since there are fewer longs responsible for pushing the stock higher. High volume pullbacks are also a sign that the market may be ready to reverse. In these instances, long traders may exit their positions and long-term investors may lock in some profits.



Traders often look at many different factors when determining if a pullback is temporary or long-term. While volume is a reliable indicator, it's also important to look at chart patterns, such as key support and resistance levels, and technical indicators, like the relative strength index (RSI) or moving average convergence-divergence (MACD), to confirm these sentiments.


   Real-World Example of Low Volume Pullbacks  

Here's an example of a series of low volume pullbacks in the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY):












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart shows three low volume pullbacks occurring within a significant uptrend before a high volume pullback that signaled a more prolonged reversal in price. Each low volume pullback was followed by a subsequent resumption of the overall trend, as weak traders took profits off the table before more bullish investors entered the market. By comparison, the high volume pullback lasted for several days and the ETF was considerably more volatile in the aftermath as investors questioned whether the long-term trend was still in place.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Lower of Cost or Market (LCM) Method?  

The lower of cost or market (LCM) method states that when valuing a company’s inventory, it is recorded on the balance sheet at either the historical cost or the market value. Historical cost refers to the cost at which the inventory was purchased.



The value of a good can shift over time. This holds significance, because if the price at which the inventory can be sold falls below the net realizable value (NRV) of the item, thus triggering a loss for the company, then the lower of cost or market method can be employed to record the loss.





Key Takeaways


The lower of cost or market (LCM) method relies on the fact that when investors value a company’s inventory, those assets shall be recorded on the balance sheet at either the market value or the historical cost.
Historical cost refers to the cost of inventory at the time it was originally purchased.
The LCM method takes into account that the value of a good can fluctuate. Under this scenario, if the price at which the inventory may be sold dips below the net realizable value (NRV) of the item, which consequently results in a loss, then the LCM method can be employed to record the loss.
The LCM method is a tenet of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



   Why Is the Lower of Cost or Market (LCM) Method Used?  

The lower of cost or market (LCM) method lets companies record losses by writing down the value of the affected inventory items. This value may be reduced to market value, which is defined as the middle value when comparing the cost to replace the inventory, the difference between the net realizable value and the typical profit on the item, and the net realizable value of the item. The amount by which the inventory item was written down is recorded under cost of goods sold on the balance sheet.



The LCM method is part of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) used in the United States and in international commerce. Almost all assets enter the accounting system with a value equal to acquisition cost. GAAP prescribes many different methods for adjusting asset values in subsequent reporting periods.



In 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an update to its code and standards that affect companies that use the average cost and last in, first out (LIFO) methods of inventory accounting. Companies that use these two methods of inventory accounting must now use the lower of cost or net realizable value method, which is more consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).


   Application of the Lower of Cost or Market (LCM) Rule  

The lower of cost or market (LCM) rule traditionally applies to companies with products that become obsolete. The rule also applies to products that lose value due to a dwindled current market price, which is defined as the current cost of replacing outdated inventory, provided that the market price isn’t larger or smaller than the net realizable value, which is essentially the projected selling price minus disposal fees.


  Other Factors in Applying the Lower of Cost or Market (LCM) Rule  

Category analysis: Although the lower of cost or market (LCM) rule is typically linked to a single product, it may also relate to a broad swath of related products.
Hedges: In cases where inventory is hedged by a fair value hedge, the hedge’s effects should be added to the inventory’s cost, which may obliterate the need for LCM adjustments.
Last in, first out (LIFO) layer recovery: One may sidestep a write-down to the LCM during interim periods when evidence suggests that inventory will be restored by year’s end.
Raw materials: One shouldn’t write down raw material costs, if the finished products are projected to sell at or above their costs.
Recovery: A write-down to the LCM may be avoided if ample evidence exists that market prices will climb, prior to the sale of inventory.
Sales incentives: Potential LCM problems may exist with specific items where yet-to-be expired sales incentives are still in play.



The LCM rule was recently changed, making things easier for businesses that do not use the retail method or the last in, first out (LIFO) method. Under the new guidelines, the measurement can be solely restricted to the lower of cost or net realizable value.




Is the lower of cost or market (LCM) method required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)?
Yes, the LCM method is required under GAAP. This method became required as of 2017.




What is the meaning of the lower of cost or market (LCM) method?
The lower of cost or market (LCM) method is used to value inventory by comparing the original cost and the current market price, and recording the cost of inventory by whichever is lower. This method is typically applicable to companies that hold inventories for extended periods, when inventory has declined in cost, or if inventory has gone obsolete.




What inventory costing methods are allowed by GAAP?
Along with the lower of cost or market (LCM) method being required by GAAP reporting, other inventory costing methods allowed by GAAP are:First in, first out (FIFO)Last in, first out (LIFO)Weighted average valuation


   The Bottom Line  

The lower of cost or market (LCM) method is a conservative accounting principle used to value a company's inventory. While the LCM method may result in lower profits and lower taxes, it provides a more accurate picture of a company's financial health. Companies should carefully consider the LCM method when valuing their inventory to ensure that their financial statements are transparent and accurate.
What Is a Loyalty Program?  

Loyalty programs, sponsored by retailers and other businesses, offer rewards, discounts, and other special incentives as a way to attract and retain customers. They are designed to encourage repeat business, offering people a reward for store/brand loyalty (hence the name). Typically, the more often a customer patronizes the merchant—and the more they spend—the greater their rewards.





Key Takeaways

Loyalty programs are offered by retailers and other corporations as a way to attract and retain customers.Loyalty programs offer rewards, discounts, or other special incentives and are designed as a reward for a customer's repeat business.Loyalty programs benefit companies not only by developing customer loyalty but by providing crucial information on how customers are spending and what products or types of offers are most appealing.While companies like Starbucks make great use of loyalty programs, some retailers such as Costco and Amazon rely instead on annual memberships.


   How a Loyalty Program Works  

Loyalty program incentives vary. Typical incentives include:



advance notice of/early access to new productsearly access to salesfree merchandise or enhanced servicesspecial services, like free or expedited shippingmembers-only discounts



To join a loyalty program—also known as a rewards program or points program—customers typically register their personal information with the company and are given a unique identifier, such as a numerical ID or membership card. They use that identifier when making a purchase.


   Purpose of a Loyalty Program  

Loyalty programs provide two key functions: They reward customers for their repeated patronage, and they provide the issuing company with a wealth of consumer information and data. While companies can evaluate anonymous purchases, the use of a loyalty program offers additional details on the type of products that may be purchased together, and whether certain incentives are more effective than others.



Loyalty programs particularly apply to high-volume businesses that thrive on return customers. And since it's more expensive to acquire a new customer than to sell to an existing one, the prospect of creating a loyal following is fundamental to adding value. When appropriately executed, repeat customers will help recruit new ones at a fraction of the cost of traditional marketing methods.



When these programs are integrated into the customer's everyday routine, they can cultivate true brand loyalty. Often, customers get invested in the program—and they will stick to a hotel, store, restaurant, credit card, or airline because of points or rewards they've accrued in its loyalty program, more than anything else.






Retail loyalty programs can trace their roots to the stamp or boxtop collection and redemption programs that date back to the 1890s. But the modern model was born with airlines' frequent flyer programs. American Airlines' AAdvantage, launched in 1981, was the first; United Airlines' Mileage Plus debuted shortly afterward.


   Loyalty Program Example  

Loyalty programs, like everything else, have joined the Digital Age. Interestingly, they are incorporating tech not just as a means of purchase things to get rewards, but as a source of rewards themselves: urging patrons to text or Instagram photos for points, or offering a discount if you shop via the merchant's new app.



The Starbucks (SBUX) Rewards program remains the default case study of how a brand can retain customers through interactive offers. The app operates much like any other rewards program, in that customers earn points (called "stars") to use for future coffee purchases. It differentiates itself from other loyalty systems by providing customers a convenient way to order ahead, pay in-store and even access exclusive music playlists. For the most part, the app solidifies Starbucks as a basic necessity for every coffee drinker. If you add funds via the app onto your digital rewards card, you'll "earn Stars twice as fast," Starbucks says.


   Loyalty Program Alternatives  

Loyalty programs aren't the only way to win customers' allegiance. Retailers like Costco (COST) and Amazon (AMZN) have achieved great customer loyalty through membership programs. Even though they carry an out-of-pocket cost, many shoppers happily pay the annual fees to access the variety of products, free shipping (in Amazon's case), and other perks and privileges offered by the two retailers. And for those who take advantage of all the available services included in a membership, the benefits can often outweigh the costs.
What Is Ltd. (Limited)?  

Ltd. is a standard abbreviation for "limited," a form of corporate structure available in countries including the U.K., Ireland, and Canada. The term appears as a suffix that follows the company name, indicating that it is a private limited company. In a limited company, shareholders' liability is limited to the capital they originally invested. If such a company becomes insolvent, the shareholders' personal assets remain protected.





Key Takeaways

Ltd. is a standard abbreviation for "limited," a form of corporate structure available in countries including the U.K., Ireland, and Canada and appears as a suffix after the company name.Limited companies limit the liability of a corporate loss to the business and do not impact the private assets of owners or investors.Limited companies may be set up as either private or public (PLC).


   Understanding Ltd. (Limited)  

A limited company is its own legal entity. A private limited company has one or more members, also called shareholders or owners, who buy in through private sales. Directors are company employees who keep up with all administrative tasks and tax filings but do not need to be shareholders.



The company’s finances are separate from the owners’ and are taxed separately. The company owns all profits and pays taxes on them, distributes a portion to shareholders as dividends, and retains the rest as working capital. A director may withdraw funds only for a salary or dividend payment or loan.






Limited companies are an organizational form that features limited liability.



By setting up a private limited company, it becomes separate from the people who run it. Any profits made by the company can be pocketed after taxes are paid. The corporation's finances must be kept separate from any personal ones in order to avoid confusion.



Public limited companies (PLCs) are also commonly used in the U.K. and some Commonwealth countries. The mandatory use of the PLC abbreviation after the name of the company serves to instantly inform investors, or anyone dealing with the company, that the company is public and probably fairly large.



PLC stock can be listed or unlisted on a stock exchange. Like any other major entity, they are strictly regulated and are required to publish their true financial health so shareholders (and future stakeholders) can size up the true worth of their stock. The lifespan of a PLC is not determined by the death of a shareholder.


   How to Set up a Limited Company  

For anyone in the U.K., there are several things you'll need in order to set up a limited company, including:



A business name and address
At least one director and at least one shareholder
A memorandum and articles of association (an agreement to create the company and the rules in writing)
Names of people who have significant control over the company (people with more than 25% of the shares or voting rights)



Once you have these together, you can then register as a private limited company. 


   Types of Limited Companies  

Limited company structures are common worldwide and are codified in many nations, though the regulations governing them can differ widely from one nation to the next. For example, in the United Kingdom, there are private limited companies and public limited companies.



Private limited companies are not permitted to offer shares to the public. They are, however, the most popular structures for a small business. Public limited companies (PLCs) may offer shares to the public to raise capital. Those shares may trade on a stock exchange once a total share value threshold is met (at least GBP 50,000). Such a structure is widely employed by larger companies.






All companies listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) are PLCs.



In the United States, a limited company is more commonly known as a corporation (corp.) or with the suffix incorporated (inc.). Some states in the U.S. do permit the use of Ltd. (limited) after a company name.



Such a designation depends on filing the correct paperwork; just adding the suffix to a company name does not provide any liability protection. Limited companies in the U.S. are required to file corporate taxes annually with regulators. A limited liability company (LLC) and limited companies have different structures.



Many countries differentiate between public and private limited companies. For example, in Germany, the Aktiengesellschaft (AG) designation is for public limited companies that can sell shares to the public while GmbH is for private limited companies that cannot issue shares.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Limited Company  
  Advantages  

Because the number of shareholders is unlimited, liability is spread among multiple owners rather than just one. A shareholder loses only as much as they invested if the company becomes insolvent.



For example, say a limited company issues 100 shares valued at $150 each. Shareholder A and Shareholder B own 50 shares each and paid in full for 25 shares each. If the company becomes insolvent, the maximum amount Shareholder A and Shareholder B each pay is $3,750, the value of the remaining 25 unpaid shares each member holds.



A limited company has greater tax advantages than a sole proprietorship, partnership, or similar organization. The company exists into perpetuity even if an owner sells or transfers their shares; securing jobs and resources for the community.


  Disadvantages  

Shares are sold privately, restricting the amount of capital raised. All shareholders must agree to sell or transfer shares to someone outside the company. The company can borrow money, but a director must often give a personal guarantee to repay the debt if the company cannot, though this is not always required. The director’s personal assets are put at stake and not protected under private limited company laws if a guarantee is provided.



If a loan is owed to the company at year-end, additional taxes apply. A director becomes personally liable if the company becomes insolvent and the director does not act in the best interest of the creditors.





Pros

Liability is diversified among owners
Personal assets are protected
Tax advantages



Cons

Privately sold shares limit capital raising
All shareholders must be in agreement to sell or transfer
Director can incur higher liabilities







Are LLC and Ltd. the Same?
For the most part, LLC and Ltd. are the same type of company. LLC (limited liability company) is more commonly used in the U.S. whereas Ltd. (limited) is more commonly used in the U.K. The differences in types and jurisdictions stipulate the different rules regarding ownership, taxes, and dividends.




What Are the Pros and Cons of a Limited Liability Company?
The pros of a limited liability company (LLC) include the protection of personal assets by legally separating the owner's personal assets from their business assets, pass-through taxation, and easier filing taxes. The cons include being more costly to set up and maintain than a general partnership or sole proprietorship, more difficult to transfer ownership, and typically higher taxes.




Why Do Businesses Use Ltd.?
Businesses incorporate themselves as Ltd. (limited) for the primary reason of limiting their liability to the capital they invested. If the business goes bust and it owes creditors money, creditors can only go after business assets, not the personal assets of the owner.


   The Bottom Line  

Ltd. (limited) structured corporations provide owners with a degree of financial protection, limiting recourse to only the amount invested in the business while keeping their personal assets safe. This type of abbreviation is more commonly used in the U.K. and not in the U.S., wherein in the U.S. a similar type of company is a limited liability company (LLC).
What Is Lucrative?  

Lucrative means profitable, and it can be used to describe any venture or activity that has the potential to make money. Thus, an investment or commercial venture is considered to be lucrative if it produces substantial wealth. A lucrative activity could be anything from collecting art, designing an invention, or following through on an idea for an innovative product or service.



Lucrative can be used in both past and present tenses. In the present tense, it describes the potential for profitability. In the past tense, it indicates that the venture has produced wealth.





Key Takeaways

An idea, a venture, or a product that creates substantial returns is lucrative.In business, a product can be deemed lucrative only if it produces substantial money in net returns, not gross receipts.A product can be termed lucrative only in the past tense. In the present tense, it indicates potential, not reality.Investors can analyze a company's financial statements and certain financial metrics to determine whether a company is lucrative or not.One of the most lucrative companies in the world is Apple Inc. 


   Understanding Lucrative  

An analyst may conclude that a particular stock is highly lucrative. What the analyst is suggesting is that this stock has the potential to be profitable.



It's tempting to suggest that the stock market is a lucrative place to make money, but it is also an easy place to lose a large amount of money. People will always have their own interpretation of whether an idea or a course of action is lucrative, at least when it is used to describe potential rather than reality.


   Special Considerations  

Lucrative can be used to describe an effort by an individual or an organization to produce a profit on a short or long-term basis. But in business, lucrativeness is associated with net earnings rather than gross revenue.



By that measure, some of the most lucrative companies in America are Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp., Alphabet Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Intel Corp.






Lucrative comes from the Latin word lucrativus, which translates to "has gained."



An individual may want to pursue a career or launch a business that provides a positive return on investment. The occupation or venture might have the potential for high revenue generation. But the direct costs and risks may reduce or eliminate its lucrativeness.



That is a very real hazard of doing business. A business owner may need to procure insurance against workplace accidents and product liability. Compliance with regulatory requirements can incur additional costs that further reduce the lucrativeness of a business.



The path to achieving lucrativeness can be complex. A startup company might raise capital through numerous funding rounds. The investors and the founders alike will need the company to pursue strategies that maximize the operating revenue and earnings and create the potential for profitable returns for the investors.



If the company were to sell to a buyer who offered less than the overall investment, no matter how big that number was, the deal would not be considered lucrative.


   Measuring Lucrativeness  

Investors and analysts can determine if a company is lucrative by analyzing its financial statements. The financial statements include the balance sheet, the income statement, and the cash flow statement.



There are certain indicators that are fairly straightforward in determining a company's lucrativeness, such as its cash levels and whether it is earning a profit or making a loss, as determined by its net income.



However, financial statements are more complex than just reading numbers, as all three statements relate to one another and each company is different from one another. For example, two companies may have the same debt levels but the stories might be completely different.



One company might have debt to finance growth because it is prospering, while another company might have debt because it needs to borrow money to finance its daily operations since its earnings are not enough to keep the company in business. It's important to know why certain numbers are what they are.



Furthermore, it is important to analyze financial ratios, as they tell a deeper picture than just the line items on financial statements. Some important financial metrics to help determine if a company is lucrative include the working capital ratio, the quick ratio, the debt-equity ratio, and return on equity.



Lastly, when determining whether a company is lucrative, it's essential to analyze the company in the context of its industry and its competitors. If you compare the numbers of a tech company to an airline company, for example, you are comparing apples and oranges.



Each industry has different capital expenditures, profit levels, debt levels, and so on. Analyzing a company within its industry and amongst its peers gives a clearer picture of its lucrativeness.


   Real-World Example  

Apple is considered to be one of the most lucrative companies in the world. The company has always had a strong customer base due to its computers and operating system that stood in contrast to PCs and Microsoft's operating system; however, the company really took off when it launched the iPod MP3 music player, then the iPhone, and then the iPad.



The release of these three products turned Apple into one of the most powerful companies in the world and the largest company in the world by market capitalization.






Just because a company has been lucrative in the past does not mean it will be so in the future. When considering an investment, it's important to conduct a thorough financial analysis, including a company's future prospects and if it is keeping up with shifting consumer tastes.



As of fiscal-year end 2021, Apple had a net income (profit) of $94.7 billion. A strong indicator of lucrativeness. The company's total cash levels were $190.5 billion and its total term debt was $119 billion. Apple has enough cash to cover its debt.



Looking at its working capital ratio, one can also tell Apple is in a strong financial position as its current assets ($135 billion) are larger than its current liabilities ($125 billion).




What Are Examples of Lucrative Jobs?
Examples of lucrative jobs include doctors, lawyers, financial traders, dentists, IT managers, engineers, computer programmers, and financial managers. Lucrative jobs are considered to be so due to the high salaries they pay.




What Are the Most Lucrative Small Businesses?
Lucrative small businesses include auto repair shops, car wash services, food trucks, IT support, electronics repair, personal trainers, vacation rentals, and language courses.




What Are Lucrative Investments for Beginners?
Lucrative investments for beginners are those with low risk that still pay out a strong return. Such investments include ETFs, certificates of deposit (CDs), high-yield savings accounts, 401(k) accounts, and mutual funds.


   The Bottom Line  

Lucrative refers to profitability. It can be any investment or venture that returns a profit, meaning that there is money left over after all costs have been accounted for. In some instances, it can even refer to an experience that left someone fulfilled.



Businesses are considered lucrative if they are generating profits rather than losses. An investment is considered lucrative if the investor receives more money than they put in. Determining if an investment or venture will be lucrative can be a difficult task, but analyzing certain financial metrics can help an individual make a well-informed decision.
What Is the Luhn Algorithm?  

The Luhn Algorithm—also known as the “Modulus 10 Algorithm”—is a formula that is used to determine whether the identification number provided by a user is accurate. The formula is widely used in validating credit card numbers, as well as other number sequences such as government Social Security Numbers (SSNs).



Today, the Luhn Algorithm is an essential component in the electronics payments system and is used by all major credit cards.





Key Takeaways

The Luhn Algorithm is a mathematical formula developed in the late 1950s.It is widely used to validate the authenticity of identification numbers.In finance, it has helped increase electronic payments processing by rapidly identifying mis-entered credit card numbers.


   How the Luhn Algorithm Works  

The LUHN formula algorithm was developed by a German Computer Scientist named Hans Peter Luhn in 1954 while working as a researcher at IBM. The exact workings of the algorithm are based on modular arithmetic, a mathematical technique developed by Carl Friedrich Gauss in the early 19th century. Although its detailed workings are rather complex, it is best known for allowing computers to quickly assess whether the credit card numbers provided by customers are accurate.



The way it does so is by applying a series of computations to the credit card number given, adding up the results of those computations, and checking whether the resulting number matches the expected result. If it does, then the credit number is deemed valid. If not, the algorithm will reject the credit card number, indicating that the user made an error when inputting the number.



From a customer’s perspective, we use the Luhn Algorithm all the time, without even realizing it. When placing orders online or using a merchant’s point of sale (POS) terminal, computer systems are able to quickly tell when we have made a mistake inputting our information. This is because the Luhn Algorithm has been incorporated into those systems’ programming. Without it, we would need to wait until the entire purchase order is submitted before realizing whether the transaction was approved. The Luhn Algorithm, in other words, helps us quickly identify user errors and thereby speed up the pace of transactions.


   Real-World Example of the Luhn Algorithm  

One of the central concepts within the Luhn Algorithm is the use of so-called “check digits.” These digits consist of numbers that are inserted into the broader number sequence in order to help verify, or “check,” whether the whole number is authentic.



For credit cards, the check digit consists of a single digit printed at the end of the credit card number. Rather than being specifically chosen by the credit card company, the check digit is instead automatically determined by the Luhn Algorithm, based on the preceding numbers in the sequence. When users enter their credit card numbers to complete transactions, the payment processing software can use the Luhn Algorithm to detect whether the specified number is accurate, based in part on its check digit.



Today, the Luhn Algorithm is integrated into popular programming languages and code libraries, making it relatively easy to include Luhn-based identification number verification in new software applications.
What Is a Lump-Sum Payment?  

A lump-sum payment is a monetary sum paid in one single payment instead of allocated into installments. They are commonly associated with pension plans and other retirement vehicles, such as 401(k) accounts, where retirees accept a smaller upfront lump-sum payment rather than a larger payment issued in installments over time.



In mortgage lending, a "bullet repayment" is the lump-sum of the outstanding loan paid to a lender.





Key Takeaways

A lump-sum payment is an amount paid all at once, as opposed to an amount that is paid in installments.A lump-sum payment is not the best choice for everyone; for some, it may make more sense for the funds to be annuitized as periodic payments.Based on interest rates, tax situation, and penalties, an annuity may end up having a higher net present value (NPV) than the lump-sum.


   Understanding a Lump-Sum Payment  

Lump-sum payments can describe a bulk payment to acquire a group of items, such as a company paying one sum for the inventory of another business. Lottery winners will also typically have the option to take a lump-sum payout versus yearly payments.



There are pros and cons to accepting a lump-sum payment rather than an annuity, fixed payments over a period of time. The right choice depends on the value of the lump sum versus the payments and one’s financial goals. The company providing the pension will calculate the commuted value of the pension to ensure they can meet their obligations.



Annuities provide a degree of financial security, but an older retiree in poor health might derive greater benefit from a lump-sum payment. Securing an upfront payment often guarantees an asset to pass on to your heirs.



An upfront payment might enable you to buy a house or other large purchase that you would otherwise not be able to afford with annuities. Similarly, you can invest the money and potentially earn a higher rate of return than the effective rate of return associated with the annual payments.






It is not always best to take the lump-sum payment in lieu of periodic annual payments; if offered the choice, consider taxes, investments, and the net present value (NPV), which accounts for the time value of money.


   Lump-Sum vs. Annuity Payments  

To illustrate how lump-sum and annuity payments work, imagine you win $10 million in the lottery. If you take the lump-sum payment, the entire winnings would be subject to income tax in that year, and you would be in the highest tax bracket.



However, if you choose the annuity option, the payments could come to you over several decades. For example, instead of $10 million in income in one year, your annuity payment might be $300,000 a year.



You would avoid the highest federal income tax bracket of 37% for single people with incomes greater than $539,900 in 2022 and $578,125 in 2023, or $647,850 for married couples filing jointly in 2022 and $693,750 in 2023.



Such tax questions depend on the size of the lottery win, current income tax rates, projected income tax rates, state of residency when you win, in which state you will live after the win, and investment returns. But if you can earn an annual return of more than 3% to 4%, the lump-sum option usually makes more sense given a 30-year annuity.
What Is a Luxury Item?  

A luxury item is not necessary to live, but it is deemed highly desirable within a culture or society. Demand for luxury goods increases when a person's wealth or income increases. Typically, the greater the percentage increase in income, the greater the percentage increase in luxury item purchases.



Since luxury goods are expensive, wealthy people are disproportionate consumers of luxury goods. Those who are not wealthy don't usually buy luxury goods since a greater percentage of their income goes to need-based expenses in order to live. Luxury goods can be considered conspicuous consumption, which is the purchase of goods mainly or solely to show off one's wealth.





Key Takeaways

A luxury item is not necessary to live, but it is deemed highly desirable within a culture or society.Luxury items tend to be sensitive to a person's income or wealth, meaning that as wealth rises, so do purchases of luxury items.Luxury items can include high-end automobiles and yachts but also services, such as full-time or live-in chefs and housekeepers. 


   Understanding Luxury Items  

Luxury items tend to be sensitive to a person's income or wealth, meaning that as wealth rises, so do purchases of luxury items. As a result, luxury items are considered to show positive income elasticity of demand, which is a measure of how responsive the demand is for a good to a change in a person's income. Conversely, if there is a decline in income, demand for luxury items will decline.



For example, demand for large, high-definition (HD) TVs would likely increase as income rises since people have the extra income to splurge on a big TV. However, if a recession occurs, which is negative economic growth, causing people to lose their job or experience less income from a lower-paying job, the demand for HD TVs would likely decline. As a result, HD TVs would be considered a luxury item.



Luxury items are the opposite of necessity goods or need expenses, which are the goods that people buy regardless of their income level or wealth. Food, water, and utilities used to live in a house or an apartment would likely be considered necessity goods for most people.



Luxury items can also refer to services, such as full-time or live-in chefs and housekeepers. Some financial services can also be considered luxury services by default because persons in lower-income brackets generally do not use them. Luxury goods also have special luxury packaging to differentiate the products from mainstream products of the same category. Of course, the definition of a luxury item is somewhat subjective, depending on a person's financial circumstances. For example, one might consider a car a luxury item while another might consider a necessity.


   Luxury Item vs. Inferior Good  

An inferior good is a good that experiences less demand as a person's income increases. As a result, it has a negative elasticity of demand. For example, cheap, store-brand coffee would likely see an increase in demand when peoples' income is low. However, when their income increases, the demand for store-brand coffee would decline as people opt for the more expensive, higher-quality coffee. As a result, the store brand coffee would be an inferior good.



Luxury items are not inferior goods; instead, they're the goods that people opt to buy when their income increases to replace inferior goods.



A luxury good may become an inferior good at different income levels. For example, if a wealthy person gets wealthy enough, they may stop buying increasing numbers of luxury cars in order to start collecting airplanes or yachts–because, at the higher income levels, the luxury car would become an inferior good.



Although the designation of an item as a luxury item doesn't necessarily translate to high quality, such goods are often considered to be on the highest end of the market in terms of quality and price.


   Special Considerations  

Some luxury products purport to be examples of Veblen goods, which are goods that see their demand rise because they're considered status symbols. In other words, as the price of the good increases, so too does demand, as people perceive, it has a higher value. As a result, Veblen goods have a positive price elasticity of demand, which measures the change in demand as a result of a change in price. For example, raising the price on a bottle of perfume can increase its perceived value, which can cause sales to increase, rather than decrease.



Certain luxury items may be subjected to a specific tax or luxury tax. Large or expensive recreational boats or automobiles can be subject to a federal tax. For example, the U.S. levied a luxury tax on certain automobiles in the 1990s but ended the tax in 2003. Luxury taxes are considered progressive because they typically only affect people with high net wealth or income.


   Examples of Luxury Items  

Although luxury items can be different from one person to another, the following items are considered luxury items in an economy:



Haute couture clothing and fur coats
Accessories, such as jewelry and high-end watches
Luggage
A high-end automobile, such as a sports car
A yacht
Wine
Homes and estates
What Is a Luxury Tax?  

A luxury tax is a sales tax or surcharge levied only on certain products or services that are deemed non-essential or accessible only to the super-wealthy.



The luxury tax may be charged as a percentage of the purchase price, or as a percentage of the amount above a specified level. For example, a luxury tax might be imposed on real estate transactions above $1 million, or car purchases over $70,000.


   Understanding a Luxury Tax  

All taxes are controversial but some are more controversial than others. A sales tax is generally charged to all buyers of goods and services within the jurisdiction that levies it. When charged on essential goods, like food and medicine, they are seen as disproportionately burdensome to lower-income consumers, who are forced to pay a higher percentage of their income in sales taxes.





Key Takeaways

A luxury tax is a sales or transfer tax imposed only on specific goods.The products taxed are considered non-essential or are affordable only to the wealthiest consumers.The mansion tax and sin taxes both fall into the category of luxury taxes.



But what about a tax only on yachts, jewelry, or real estate valued at more than $1 million? Now the only ones that pay the tax are those few who can afford these goods.



Luxury taxes generally fall into two categories:



So-called "sin taxes" are imposed on products like cigarettes and liquor and are paid by every buyer, regardless of income. Anyone who objects can just stop buying it. In imposing the tax, the government is both discouraging the use of these products and raising revenue from those who keep buying them.Taxes on items that can be purchased only by the wealthiest consumers, who presumably can afford to pay the premium.



Both taxes are relatively popular because they hit only a minority of the population.



But even luxury taxes can be politically controversial. A so-called "yacht tax" was enacted in the U.S. in 1991 in order to pay down the federal deficit. It covered a number of luxury goods, including private jets, fur coats, and jewelry, as well as yachts. The tax was abolished in 1993 on the grounds that it killed the yacht industry and many American jobs along with it.


  The Politics of Luxury Taxes  

Luxury taxes are often imposed during times of war to increase government revenues, or to fund another large expense without raising taxes on the general population. Their opponents cite the danger of job losses, but the vast majority of people are unaffected and unconcerned.



Then again, sometimes luxury taxes just don't work. A "window tax" was imposed on English homeowners beginning in 1696. The theory was that people with bigger houses had more windows, and therefore should pay more taxes than those in modest dwellings. Rich people throughout the land promptly boarded up most of their windows.


  Defining Luxury  

Since luxury goods are attributed to the wealthy in society, it is expected that the majority of taxpayers will not be affected by a luxury tax. However, as what is viewed as luxury changes over time, and as prices rise due to inflation, more people will be subject to this progressive tax. Goods considered as normal or ordinary goods may be hit with luxury taxes if the government needs to increase its revenue.






In the U.S., the "yacht tax" lasted only from 1991 to 1993 before being abolished as a job-killer.



Expensive homes are a frequent target of luxury taxes, but here the definition of luxury gets murky. Certain states charge a "mansion tax" on ownership transfers of homes valued at above a certain level.



In New York State, that level is $1 million. That may target only the wealthiest buyers in Syracuse or Rochester, but it's a modest sum for a home in Manhattan.



In Vermont, the mansion tax kicks in at $100,000. The median home price in Vermont is about $261,000.


  The Economic Theory of Luxury Taxes  

In economics, luxury goods are referred to as Veblen goods in honor of Thorstein Veblen, who famously described the concept of conspicuous consumption. That defines them as goods for which demand increases as price increases. The more a thing costs, the more coveted it becomes.



Since taxes increase the price of a good, the effect of luxury taxes should be increased demand for goods that are defined as luxuries. In practice, however, luxury goods have a high income elasticity of demand by definition. Both the income effect and the substitution effect will decrease demand sharply as the tax rises.



Plainly put, some people who yearn to own a yacht will decide that a canoe will do.
